[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market areas. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and negatively impacted.  These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods.. Our net interest margin, and consequently our net earnings, are significantly affected by interest rate levels.. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans, leases and investment securities and interest expense paid on deposits, other borrowings, subordinated debentures and subordinated notes. The absolute level of interest rates as well as changes in interest rates or that affect the yield curve may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rate fluctuations are caused by many factors which, for the most part, are not under our control. For example, national monetary policy plays a significant role in the determination of interest rates. Additionally, competitor pricing (including competition that may develop as a result of the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) and the resulting negotiations that occur with our customers also impact the rates we collect on loans and the rates we pay on deposits. In addition, changes in the method of determining the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or other reference rates, or uncertainty related to such potential changes, may adversely affect the value of reference rate-linked debt securities that we hold or issue, which could further impact our interest rate spread.. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our results of operations and financial condition. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses.. Because of significant competitive pressures in our markets and the negative impact of these pressures on our deposit and loan pricing, coupled with the fact that a significant portion of our loan portfolio has variable rate pricing that moves in concert with changes to the Federal Reserve's federal funds rate or LIBOR (both of which are at low levels as a result of recent economic conditions), our net interest margin may be negatively impacted if these short-term rates remain at their low levels. However, if short-term interest rates rise, our results of operations may also be negatively impacted if we are unable to increase the rates we charge on loans or earn on our investment securities in excess of the increases we must pay on deposits and our other funding sources. As interest rates change, we expect that we will periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities (usually deposits and borrowings) will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets (usually loans and investment securities), or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this \"gap\" may work against us, and our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected.. We have entered into certain hedging transactions including interest rate swaps, which are designed to lessen elements of our interest rate exposure. In the event that interest rates do not change in the manner anticipated, such transactions may not be effective and our results of operations may be adversely affected.. We have a concentration of credit exposure to borrowers in certain industries, and we also target small to medium-sized businesses.. We have meaningful credit exposures to borrowers in certain businesses, including commercial and residential building lessors, new home builders, and land subdividers. These industries experienced adversity during 2008 through 2010 as a result of sluggish economic conditions, and, as a result, an increased level of borrowers in these industries were unable to perform under their loan agreements with us, or suffered loan downgrades which negatively impacted our results of operations. If the economic environment in our markets weakens in 2018 or beyond, these industry or other concentrations could result in increased deterioration in credit quality, past dues, loan charge offs and collateral value declines, which could cause our results of operations and financial condition to be negatively impacted. Furthermore, any of our large credit exposures that deteriorate unexpectedly could cause us to have to make significant additional loan loss provisions, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition.. A substantial focus of our marketing and business strategy is to serve small to medium-sized businesses in our market areas. As a result, a relatively high percentage of our loan portfolio consists of commercial loans primarily to small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2017, our commercial and industrial loans accounted for almost 26.5% of our total loans.. 19. Table of Contents. Additionally, approximately, 36.9% of our commercial real-estate mortgage loans at December 31, 2017 are owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, which are loans to businesses secured by the businesses' real estate. We expect to seek to expand the amount of such loans in our portfolio in 2018. During periods of lower economic growth or challenging economic periods, small to medium-sized businesses may be impacted more severely and more quickly than larger businesses. Consequently, the ability of such businesses to repay their loans may deteriorate, and in some cases this deterioration may occur quickly, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. As a result of our acquisitions over the last three years and our strong organic growth in our legacy markets as well as our revaluation of deferred tax assets and recognized investment securities losses following the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act during the fourth quarter of 2017, our level of commercial real estate loans increased markedly from approximately 190% of total risk-based capital as of December 31, 2014 to approximately 297% of total risk-based capital as of December 31, 2017. If our level of commercial real estate loans were to remain at these elevated levels or exceed regulatory guidelines, our ability to grow our loan portfolio in line with our targets may be negatively impacted if we don't increase our capital levels and it may be more difficult to secure any required regulatory approvals necessary to execute on our expansion strategy without increasing our capital levels.. The percentage of real estate construction and development loans in our loan portfolio was approximately 12.2% of total loans at December 31, 2017. These loans make up approximately 10.4% of our non-performing loans at December 31, 2017. This type of lending is generally considered to have relatively high credit risks because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful completion and operation of the related real estate project. Weakness in residential real estate market prices as well as demand could result in price reductions in home and land values adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the construction and development loans that we hold. Should we experience the return of adverse economic and real estate market conditions similar to those we experienced in 2009 and 2010 we may again experience increases in non-performing loans and other real estate owned, increased losses and expenses from the management and disposition of non-performing assets, increases in provision for loan losses, and increases in operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work out of loans, all of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business may suffer if there are significant declines in the value of real estate.. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. If the value of the real estate serving as collateral for our loan and lease portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled during a time when market conditions are declining or have declined, we may not be able to realize the value of the security anticipated when we originated the loan, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our allowance and provision for loan and lease losses and our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Most of our foreclosed assets are comprised of real estate properties. We carry these properties at their estimated fair values less estimated selling costs. While we believe the carrying values for such assets are reasonable and appropriately reflect current market conditions, there can be no assurance that the values of such assets will not further decline prior to sale or that the amount of proceeds realized upon disposition of foreclosed assets will approximate the carrying value of such assets. If the proceeds from any such dispositions are less than the carrying value of foreclosed assets, we will record a loss on the disposition of such assets, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our operations are principally geographically concentrated in certain markets in the southeastern United States, and changes in local economic conditions impact our profitability.. Prior to our acquisitions of CapitalMark and Magna, we operated primarily in the Nashville, Tennessee and Knoxville, Tennessee MSAs, and most of our borrowers, depositors and other customers lived or had operations in these areas. With our acquisitions of CapitalMark and Magna, we have increased our presence in the Knoxville MSA and expanded our operations into the Chattanooga MSA and surrounding counties and the Memphis MSA. Following our acquisition of BNC, we have expanded our operations to the Carolinas and Virginia. As a result, a significant percentage of our borrowers are situated in these Tennessee MSAs, and the various MSAs we have recently entered into in the Carolinas and Virginia. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our markets (particularly the Nashville, Tennessee MSA, Knoxville, Tennessee MSA and the Carolina and Virginia MSAs), along with the continued attraction of business ventures to these areas, and our profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in these markets. We cannot assure you that economic conditions, including loan demand, in our markets will not deteriorate during 2018 or thereafter, and upon any deterioration, we may not be able to grow our loan portfolio in line with our expectations and the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us may be negatively impacted and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. 20. Table of Contents. Compared to national financial institutions, we are less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or return of more favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur.. Our acquisitions and future expansion may result in additional risks.. Over the last three years we have completed the acquisitions of CapitalMark, Magna, Avenue and BNC. We expect to continue to expand in our current markets and in select high-growth markets located outside of Tennessee in the southeastern portion of the United States through additional branches and also may consider expansion within these markets through additional acquisitions of all or part of other financial institutions. These types of expansions involve various risks, including:. Management of Growth. We may be unable to successfully:. • maintain loan quality in the context of significant loan growth;. • identify and expand into suitable markets;. • obtain regulatory and other approvals;. • identify and acquire suitable sites for new banking offices;. • attract sufficient deposits and capital to fund anticipated loan growth;. • maintain adequate common equity and regulatory capital;. • avoid diversion or disruption of our existing operations or management as well as those of the acquired institution;. • maintain adequate management personnel and systems to oversee and support such growth;. • maintain adequate internal audit, loan review and compliance functions; and. • implement additional policies, procedures and operating systems required to support such growth.. Results of Operations. There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as we routinely add new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices in our newer markets.. Development of offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, any new branches we establish can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until they reach certain economies of scale. The same is true for our efforts to expand in these markets with the hiring of additional seasoned professionals with significant experience in that market. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in opening any of our new branches. We may be unable to accomplish future branch expansion plans due to a lack of available satisfactory sites, difficulties in acquiring such sites, failure to receive any required regulatory approvals, increased expenses or loss of potential sites due to complexities associated with zoning and permitting processes, higher than anticipated merger and acquisition costs or other factors. Finally, we have no assurance any branch will be successful even after it has been established or acquired, as the case may be.. Regulatory and economic factors. Our growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect our continued growth and expansion. Such factors may cause us to alter our growth and expansion plans or slow or halt the growth and expansion process, which may prevent us from entering into or expanding in our targeted markets or allow competitors to gain or retain market share in our existing markets.. Failure to successfully address these and other issues related to our expansion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, our results of operations and financial condition will be negatively impacted.. If loan customers with significant loan balances fail to repay their loans, our results of operations, financial condition and capital levels will suffer. We make various assumptions and judgments about the probable losses in our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing the loans. Utilizing objective and subjective factors, we maintain an allowance for loan losses, established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, to cover. 21. Table of Contents. our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of this allowance, we utilize estimates based on analyses of volume and types of loans, internal loan classifications, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies, nonaccruals and charge-offs, loss experience of various loan categories, national and local economic conditions, industry and peer bank loan quality indications, and other pertinent factors and information. Actual losses are difficult to forecast, especially if those losses stem from factors beyond our historical experience or are otherwise inconsistent with our credit quality assessments. If our assumptions are inaccurate, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover potential loan losses, and additional provisions may be necessary which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our loan portfolio and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Their conclusions about the quality of a particular borrower or our entire loan portfolio may be different than ours. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans (including those we acquired in our recently completed acquisitions), identification of additional problem loans, accounting rule changes (like those related to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's rules regarding accounting for current expected credit losses that are not yet effective) and other factors, both within and outside of our management's control. These additions may require increased provision expense which would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund our operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity represents an institution's ability to provide funds to satisfy demands from depositors, borrowers and other creditors by either converting assets into cash or accessing new or existing sources of incremental funds. Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that we may be unable to satisfy current or future funding requirements and needs.. The objective of managing liquidity risk is to ensure that our cash flow requirements resulting from depositor, borrower and other creditor demands as well as our operating cash needs, are met, and that our cost of funding such requirements and needs is reasonable. We maintain an asset/liability and interest rate risk policy and a liquidity and funds management policy, including a contingency funding plan that, among other things, include procedures for managing and monitoring liquidity risk. Generally we rely on deposits, repayments of loans and leases and cash flows from our investment securities as our primary sources of funds. Our principal deposit sources include consumer, commercial and public funds customers in our markets. We have used these funds, together with wholesale deposit sources such as brokered deposits, along with Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati (\"FHLB Cincinnati\") advances, federal funds purchased and other sources of short-term and long-term borrowings, to make loans and leases, acquire investment securities and other assets and to fund continuing operations.. An inability to maintain or raise funds in amounts necessary to meet our liquidity needs could have a substantial negative effect, individually or collectively, on Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank's liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. For example, factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, a reduction in our credit rating, any damage to our reputation or any other decrease in depositor or investor confidence in our creditworthiness and business. Our access to liquidity could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Any such event or failure to manage our liquidity effectively could affect our competitive position, increase our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on deposits, limit our access to the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments, general economic and market conditions and other factors. Loan and lease repayments are a relatively stable source of funds but are subject to the borrowers' and lessees' ability to repay loans and leases, which can be adversely affected by a number of factors including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups or specific businesses, declines in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and other factors. Furthermore, loans and leases generally are not readily convertible to cash. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet growth in loans and leases, deposit withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such secondary sources include FHLB Cincinnati advances, brokered deposits, secured and unsecured federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, Federal Reserve borrowings and/or accessing the equity or debt capital markets.. We anticipate we will continue to rely primarily on deposits, loan and lease repayments, and cash flows from our investment securities to provide liquidity. Additionally, where necessary, the secondary sources of borrowed funds described above will be. 22. Table of Contents. used to augment our primary funding sources. If we are unable to access any of these secondary funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet our customers' or creditors' needs, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. We may not be able to successfully integrate BNC's business or to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of BNC.. We are still in the process of integrating BNC's business. A successful integration of BNC's business with ours will depend substantially on our ability to consolidate operations, corporate cultures, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may not be able to combine our business with BNC's business without encountering difficulties, such as:. • the loss of key employees;. • disruption of operations and business;. • inability to maintain and increase competitive presence;. • loan and deposit attrition, customer loss and revenue loss, including as a result of any decision we may make to close one or more locations;. • possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies;. • unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit; and/or. • problems with the assimilation of new operations, sites or personnel, which could divert resources from regular banking operations.. Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit our successful integration of BNC's business.. Further, we acquired BNC with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a strengthened market position for the combined company, cross selling opportunities, technological efficiencies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of this acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we integrate BNC's business, including its organizational culture, operations, technologies, services and products, in an efficient and effective manner, receipt of any required regulatory approvals or no objection decisions with respect to certain integration actions, our ability to achieve the estimated noninterest expense savings we believe we can achieve, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits on the anticipated timeframe, or at all, could result in a reduction in the price of our shares as well as in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we made fair value estimates of certain assets and liabilities in recording our acquisition of BNC. Actual values of these assets and liabilities could differ from our estimates, which could result in our not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Finally, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings.. We have incurred significant transaction and merger-related costs in connection with our acquisition of BNC.. We have incurred significant costs associated with combining the operations of BNC with our operations. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business with the business of BNC, including as a result of the conversion of our technology systems to a single, unified model across all of our geographic regions. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. Our acquisition of BNC involves risks unlike those we have faced in connection with our other recent acquisitions.. Between January 1, 2015 and our acquisition of BNC, we had acquired three financial institutions with aggregate total assets of approximately $2.92 billion as of the respective dates we consummated those acquisitions. BNC's total assets as of March 31, 2017 were approximately $7.58 billion, reflecting assets significantly in excess of the aggregate total assets of all of the other financial institutions we have acquired since January 1, 2015. For the merger to be successful, we will need to, among other things, successfully export our business strategies to the new markets in which BNC operates and effectively manage a combined company that is over 50% larger than our pre-acquisition size, measured by total assets. Moreover, all of our acquisitions to date other than the BNC acquisition have been of financial institutions headquartered in Tennessee with significant operations in markets with which we were familiar. At the closing of the merger, BNC operated 76 banking offices across three states in many markets that are unfamiliar to us. We will rely heavily on BNC's existing personnel (as well as employees hired following the closing) to grow loan and deposit balances in those markets and if we are unable to retain BNC's key employees our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have also announced a significant five-year hiring initiative targeted at revenue producers in BNC's legacy markets. If we are unable to successfully recruit and hire qualified revenue producers at our targeted goal, we may be unable to grow loans and deposits in those markets at the pace we have targeted, which could result in a material and adverse impact on our results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. In addition, BNC's loan portfolio was made up of a greater percentage of commercial real estate loans than we had in our portfolio and BNC was more dependent on noncore funding than we were prior to the merger. Our regulators will be closely monitoring the levels of commercial real estate loans in our portfolio and, if we are unable to originate a significant amount of loans in other segments of our portfolio or increase our capital levels in amounts sufficient to keep our concentration of these commercial real estate loans near or below regulatory guidelines, our ability to continue to aggressively grow our balance sheet may be negatively affected and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are not able to increase the amount of core funding in our markets, particularly in lower cost deposits, our net interest margin and liquidity may be adversely affected which could result in a material and adverse impact on our results of operations.. We may face risks with respect to future acquisitions.. When we attempt to expand our business through mergers and acquisitions (as we have aggressively done over the last three years), we seek targets that are culturally similar to us, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through economies of scale or expanded services. In addition to the general risks associated with our growth plans which are highlighted above, in general acquiring other banks, businesses or branches, particularly those in markets with which we are less familiar, involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition and merger targets;. • inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution;. • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management, including as a result of de novo expansion into a market, and opening new bank locations, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the significant costs of the expansion that we may incur, particularly in the first 12 to 24 months of operations;. • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders;. • the diversion of our management's attention to the negotiation of a transaction and integration of an acquired company's operations with ours;. • the incurrence of an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and adverse effects on our results of operations;. • entry into new markets where we have limited or no direct prior experience;. • closing delays and increased expenses related to the resolution of lawsuits filed by our shareholders or shareholders of companies we may seek to acquire;. • the inability to receive regulatory approvals timely or at all, including as a result of community objections, or such approvals being restrictively conditional; and. • risks associated with integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired business.. We expect to continue to evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities that are presented to us in our current markets as well as other markets throughout the southeastern portion of the United States and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities and related capital raising transactions may occur at any time. Generally, acquisitions of financial institutions involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our book value and fully diluted earnings per share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in product presence and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we may face significant competition from numerous other financial services institutions, many of which may have greater financial resources than we do, when considering acquisition opportunities, particularly in our targeted high-growth markets located outside of Tennessee. Accordingly, attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any potential future acquisitions.. The performance of our investment securities portfolio is subject to fluctuation due to changes in interest rates and market conditions, including credit deterioration of the issuers of individual securities.. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investment securities. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or increase unrealized losses in our portfolio. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political issues, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates can materially affect both the returns on and market value of our investment securities. Additionally, actual investment income and cash flows from investment securities that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed. 24. Table of Contents. securities and callable securities, may materially differ from those anticipated at the time of investment or subsequently as a result of changes in interest rates and market conditions.. Our investment securities portfolio consists of several securities whose trading markets are \"not active.\" As a result, we utilize alternative methodologies for pricing these securities that include various estimates and assumptions. There can be no assurance that we can sell these investment securities at the price derived by these methodologies, or that we can sell these investment securities at all, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We monitor the financial position of the various issues of investment securities in our portfolio, including each of the state and local governments and other political subdivisions where we have exposure. To the extent we have securities in our portfolio from issuers who have experienced a deterioration of financial condition, or who may experience future deterioration of financial condition, the value of such securities may decline and could result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. On July 21, 2010, former President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act. This landmark legislation includes, among other things, (i) the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Counsel to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; (ii) the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions and their holding companies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve; (iii) the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products that would affect banks and non-bank finance companies; (iv) the establishment of new capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; (v) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivatives, securitization and mortgage origination markets; (vi) the elimination of certain proprietary trading and private equity investment activities by banks and bank holding companies; (vii) the elimination of barriers to de novo interstate branching by banks; (viii) a permanent increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; (ix) the authorization of interest-bearing transaction accounts; and (x) changes in how the FDIC deposit insurance assessments are calculated and an increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund.. Certain provisions of the legislation were not immediately effective or are subject to required studies and implementing regulations. Further, community banks with less than $10 billion in assets are exempt from certain provisions of the legislation. We exceeded $10 billion in assets upon the consummation of the Avenue merger, causing us to become subject to these additional regulations, and, as described below, our results of operations may be materially impacted by the additional costs to comply with these additional regulations as well as the higher costs associated with increased deposit insurance premiums.. The Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations impose various additional requirements on bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in total assets, including compliance with portions of the Federal Reserve's enhanced prudential oversight requirements and annual stress testing requirements. In addition, banks with $10 billion or more in total assets are primarily examined by the CFPB with respect to various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations. Previously, Pinnacle Bank was subject to regulations adopted by the CFPB, but the FDIC was primarily responsible for examining our compliance with consumer protection laws and those CFPB regulations. As a relatively new agency with evolving regulations and practices, there is uncertainty as to how the CFPB's examination and regulatory authority might impact our business.. Since our total assets exceed $10 billion, we and our bank subsidiary are required, under the Dodd-Frank Act, to submit annually a stress test to our federal regulators that projects our performance in various economic scenarios provided by the regulators. We are required to submit our first stress test in the third quarter of 2018. The Dodd-Frank Act stress tests are forward-looking exercises conducted by our regulators to help ensure institutions have sufficient capital to absorb losses and support operations during adverse economic conditions. In performing these stress tests, we will be required to make certain assumptions in modeling future performance and must support these assumptions through statistical analysis and observed market behavior where applicable. The outcome of our regulators' analysis of our and our bank subsidary's projected performance (to include capital, earnings, and balance sheet changes) will be used in supervision of us and our bank subsidiary and will assist our regulators in assessing our and Pinnacle Bank's risk profile and capital adequacy. The results of any stress test that we and our bank subsidiary perform could hinder our or the bank's subsidiary's ability to pay quarterly cash dividends to shareholders as has been our practice, and could also impact decisions made by the Federal Reserve and other bank regulators regarding future acquisitions or investments by us or Pinnacle Bank. Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also adversely affect our stock price or our ability to retain our customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities.. 25. Table of Contents. In addition, beginning on July 1, 2017 we became subject to the Durbin Amendment promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the Durbin Amendment, interchange fees for debit card transactions are capped at $0.21 plus five basis points (plus $0.01 for fraud loss). This limitation on interchange fees has adversely impacted our results of operations and will continue to do so.. Ongoing compliance with these additional requirements may result in further increased regulatory compliance costs, fee reductions and restrictions on activities in which we may have otherwise engaged, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, our failure to comply with these or other regulations could result in regulatory enforcement actions against us or make it more difficult to receive any required regulatory approvals necessary to execute on our growth strategy, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or financial condition.. Although many of the regulations implementing portions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been promulgated, we are still unable to predict how this significant legislation may be interpreted and enforced or the full extent to which implementing regulations and supervisory policies may affect us. There can be no assurance that these or future reforms will not significantly increase our compliance or operating costs or otherwise have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. President Donald Trump and the Congressional majority have indicated that the Dodd-Frank Act will be under further scrutiny and some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and rules promulgated thereunder may be revised, repealed or amended, including as is proposed in legislation which has been approved by either the House of Representatives or the Senate. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted, if at all, or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. Even if modifications are enacted to existing or proposed regulations, including as proposed in such legislation, we may continue to face enhanced scrutiny from our regulators who may expect us to continue to comply with the current, more stringent requirements as part of their safety and soundness and compliance examinations and general oversight of our operations.. Our capital stress testing processes rely on analytical and forecasting models that may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, which could adversely affect the effectiveness of our strategic planning and our ability to pursue certain corporate goals.. As discussed above, we and our bank subsidiary are required to perform annual capital stress tests under the Dodd-Frank Act. The results of our capital stress tests may require us and our bank subsidiary to increase our regulatory capital, raise additional capital or take or decline to take certain other capital-related actions under certain circumstances. Our stress testing processes also rely on our use of analytical and forecasting models. These models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Furthermore, even if our assumptions are accurate predictors of future performance, the models they are based on may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or implementation. Also, the assumptions we utilize for our stress tests may not be met with regulatory approval, which could result in our stress tests receiving a failing grade. In addition to adversely affecting our reputation, failing our stress tests would likely preclude or delay the possibility of our growth through acquisition, and would limit our ability to pay any cash dividends.. Negative developments in the U.S. and local economy may adversely impact our results in the future.. Economic conditions in the markets in which we operate deteriorated significantly between early 2008 and the middle of 2010. These challenges manifested themselves primarily in the form of increased levels of provisions for loan losses and other real estate expense related to declining collateral values in our real estate loan portfolio and increased costs associated with our portfolio of other real estate owned. Although economic conditions have strengthened in most of our markets in the more recent periods and we have refocused our efforts on growing our earning assets, we believe that we will continue to experience an uncertain economic environment during 2018. Accordingly, we expect that our results of operations could be negatively impacted by economic conditions, including reduced loan demand. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets, generally, or us in particular, will improve materially, or at all, in the near future, or thereafter, in which case we could experience reduced earnings or again experience significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges.. Our ability to grow our loan portfolio may be limited by, among other things, economic conditions, competition within our market areas, the timing of loan repayments and seasonality.. Our ability to continue to improve our results of operations is dependent upon, among other things, aggressively growing our loan portfolio. While we believe that our strategy to grow our loan portfolio is sound and our growth targets are achievable over an extended period of time, competition within our market areas is significant, particularly for borrowers whose businesses have. 26. Table of Contents. been less negatively impacted by the challenging economic conditions of the last few years. We compete with both large regional and national financial institutions, who are sometimes able to offer more attractive interest rates and other financial terms than we choose to offer, and smaller community-based financial institutions who seek to offer a similar level of service to that which we offer. This competition can make loan growth challenging, particularly if we are unwilling to price loans at levels that would cause unacceptable levels of compression of our net interest margin or if we are unwilling to structure a loan in a manner that we believe results in a level of risk to us that we are not willing to accept. Moreover, loan growth throughout the year can fluctuate due in part to seasonality of the businesses of our borrowers and potential borrowers and the timing on loan repayments, particularly those of our borrowers with significant relationships with us, resulting from, among other things, excess levels of liquidity. In addition, the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which contains provisions limiting the mortgage interest tax deduction and eliminating the deduction for interest paid on home equity loans, may negatively affect our ability to originate residential real estate loans (including home equity lines of credit).. Our investment in BHG may not produce the contribution to our results of operations that we expect.. Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank collectively hold a 49% interest in BHG. While we have a significant stake in BHG, are entitled to designate two members of BHG's five person board of managers and in some instances have protective rights to block BHG from engaging in certain activities, including, until March 1, 2020, a sale of BHG (following March 1, 2020, the other managers can approve a sale of BHG without our consent), the other managers and members of BHG may make most decisions regarding BHG's operations without our consent or approval. Any sale of all or a portion of our interest in BHG would adversely affect our recurring noninterest income. Moreover, there are certain limitations on our ability to sell our interest in BHG without first offering BHG and the other members a right of first refusal, and we are prohibited from transferring any portion of our interest without the consent of the other members of BHG prior to March 1, 2021, other than transfers in connection with an acquisition of Pinnacle Financial or Pinnacle Bank or as a result of a change in applicable law that forces us and/or Pinnacle Bank to divest our or Pinnacle Bank's ownership interests in BHG.. A significant portion of BHG's revenue (and correspondingly our interest in any of BHG's net profits) comes from the sale of loans originated by BHG to community banks. Moreover, the aggregate purchase price we paid to acquire our interest in BHG was based on our expectation that BHG will continue to grow its business and increase the amount of loans that it is able to originate and sell. In the event that BHG's loan growth slows over historical levels or its loan sales decrease (including but not limited to as a result of regulatory restrictions on banks that are the principal purchasers of BHG's loans), its results of operations and our non-interest income would be adversely affected. BHG currently operates in most states without the need for a permit or any other license. In the event that BHG was required to register or become licensed in any state in which it operates, or regulations are adopted that seek to limit BHG's ability to operate in any jurisdiction or that seek to limit the amounts of interest that BHG can charge on its loans, BHG's results of operations (and our and Pinnacle Bank's interest in BHG's net profits) could be materially and adversely affected.. BHG's business may become subject to increased scrutiny by the FDIC or the Federal Reserve as it grows or as a result of our investment. The FDIC has published guidance related to the operation of marketplace lenders and banks' business relationships with such lenders and other third parties in which banks are required to exercise increased oversight and ongoing monitoring and other responsibility for such third parties' compliance with applicable regulatory guidance and requirements. As a result, we are subject to enhanced responsibility for and risk related to BHG and our relationship with it. BHG's compliance costs may increase and its loan yields may be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact its results of operations and our and Pinnacle Bank's interest in BHG's net profits. If banks that are examined by the FDIC became restricted in their ability to buy loans originated by BHG, BHG's business would be negatively impacted, which would negatively impact our interest in BHG's profits.. Changes to capital requirements for bank holding companies and depository institutions that became effective January 1, 2015 and continue to be phased in may negatively impact Pinnacle Financial's and Pinnacle Bank's results of operations.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC approved final rules that substantially amended the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Pinnacle Bank and Pinnacle Financial. The final rules, which became effective on January 1, 2015, implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. Under these rules, the leverage and risk-based capital ratios of bank holding companies may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The final rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Moreover, these rules refine the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating those ratios, including the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The minimum capital level requirements now applicable to bank holding companies and banks subject to the rules are: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%; (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8%; and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions.. 27. Table of Contents. The rules also establish a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% (being phased in over three years beginning January 1, 2016) above the new regulatory minimum risk-based capital ratios, and result in the following minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. The phase-in of the capital conservation buffer requirement commenced in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increases each year until fully implemented in January 2019. We will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if our capital levels fall below these minimums plus the buffer amounts. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions.. Under these rules, Tier 1 capital generally consists of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, limited amounts of minority interest in the form of additional Tier 1 capital instruments, and non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, subject to certain eligibility standards, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. Common equity Tier 1 capital generally consists of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. Tier 2 capital generally consists of subordinated debt, other preferred stock, and a limited amount of loan loss reserves. The total amount of Tier 2 capital is limited to 100% of Tier 1 capital. Cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010, no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, but such securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, including in the case of bank holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in total assets at that date, trust preferred securities issued prior to that date, continue to count as Tier 1 capital subject to certain limitations. Since our total assets exceeded $15.0 billion following our merger with BNC, the subordinated debentures we, and companies we have acquired, issued in connection with prior trust preferred securities offerings no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital under applicable banking regulations. Though these trust preferred securities no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, we believe they continue to qualify as Tier 2 capital, subject to applicable limitations. We may need to increase the level of Tier 1 capital we maintain through issuance of common stock or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, which could cause dilution to our existing common shareholders.. The final rules allow banks and their holding companies with less than $250 billion in assets a one-time opportunity to opt-out of a requirement to include unrealized gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income in their capital calculation. Both Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank opted-out of this requirement.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank, like those adopted to implement the Basel III reforms, could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, particularly in the form of common stock, make it more difficult for us to receive regulatory approvals related to our growth initiatives and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III either because we became subject to those requirements directly or because our regulators seek to propose additional on-balance sheet liquidity requirements on us, could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares.. Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions.. Federal and state bank regulators require Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. At December 31, 2017, Pinnacle Financial's and Pinnacle Bank's regulatory capital ratios were at \"well-capitalized\" levels under regulatory guidelines. However, as described above, our business strategy calls for continued growth in our existing banking markets and targeted expansion in new markets. Growth in assets at rates in excess of the rate at which our capital is increased through retained earnings will reduce our capital ratios unless we continue to increase capital. Failure by us to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities and would negatively impact our ability to pursue acquisitions or other expansion opportunities.. We may need to raise additional capital (including through the issuance of common stock) in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs or in connection with acquisitions. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by negative perceptions of our business or prospects, changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. Pinnacle Bank is required to obtain regulatory approval in order to pay dividends to Pinnacle Financial unless the amount of such dividends does not exceed its net. 28. Table of Contents. income for that calendar year plus retained net income for the preceding two years. Any restriction on the ability of Pinnacle Bank to pay dividends to Pinnacle Financial could impact Pinnacle Financial's ability to continue to pay dividends on its common stock or its ability to pay interest on its indebtedness.. We cannot assure you that access to capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets may materially and adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and/or debt and, in turn, our liquidity. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand through internal growth or acquisitions or to continue operations could be impaired.. Certain of our deposits and other funding sources may be volatile and impact our liquidity.. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits less than $250,000, we utilize or in the past have utilized several noncore funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, FHLB Cincinnati advances, federal funds purchased and other sources. Our reliance on noncore funding sources has increased as a result of the BNC merger, and it is likely to remain at elevated levels as we integrate BNC.. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund the ongoing operations and growth of Pinnacle Bank. The availability of these noncore funding sources is subject to broad economic conditions, in some instances regulation, and to investor assessment of our financial strength and, as such, the cost of funds may fluctuate significantly and/or the availability of such funds may be restricted, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. We have somewhat similar risks to the extent high balance core deposits exceed the amount of deposit insurance coverage available.. We impose certain internal limits as to the absolute level of noncore funding we will incur at any point in time. Should we exceed those limitations, we may need to modify our growth plans, liquidate certain assets, participate loans to correspondents or execute other actions to allow for us to return to an acceptable level of noncore funding within a reasonable amount of time, any one of which actions could adversely affect our results of operations.. An ineffective risk management framework could have a material adverse effect on our strategic planning and our ability to mitigate risks and/or losses and could have adverse regulatory consequences.. We have implemented a risk management framework to identify and manage our risk exposure. This framework is comprised of various processes, systems and strategies, and is designed to manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including, among others, credit, market, liquidity, operational, capital, compliance, strategic and, reputational risks. Our framework also includes financial, analytical, forecasting, or other modeling methodologies, which involves management assumptions and judgment. In addition, our board of directors, in consultation with management, has adopted a risk appetite statement, which sets forth certain thresholds and limits to govern our overall risk profile. However, there is no assurance that our risk management framework, including the risk metrics under our risk appetite statement, will be effective under all circumstances or that it will adequately identify, manage or mitigate any risk or loss to us. If our risk management framework is not effective, we could suffer unexpected losses and become subject to regulatory consequences, as a result of which our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify these systems as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. We provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet or through their mobile device. The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of remote and mobile banking. Our network, and the systems of parties with whom we contract, could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches (including breaches of security of customer systems and networks) and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain. 29. Table of Contents. customers and businesses. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability and cause reputational damage.. In addition, we outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In connection with our acquisition of BNC, we converted our core processing system in our Tennessee legacy markets to that of BNC. Any complications from the conversion could cause us to experience increased costs as we manage through those complications or divert management's and our associates' attention from executing on our growth strategy. Moreover, such complications could negatively impact the experiences or satisfaction of our customers, which could cause those customers to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the amount of business that they do with us, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses.. In the course of business, Pinnacle Bank may acquire, through foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, properties securing loans it has originated or purchased which are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we, or Pinnacle Bank, might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings.. Bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions (including those originating from the Dodd-Frank Act) on financial institutions have been proposed or adopted by regulators and by Congress. Changes in tax law, federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. State and municipal governments, including the State of Tennessee, could seek to increase their tax revenues through increased tax levies which could have a meaningful impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. These actions, whether formal or informal, could result in our agreeing to limitations or to take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal supervisory actions, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans.. Our business reputation and relationships are important and any damage to them could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our reputation is very important in sustaining our business and we rely on our relationships with our current, former and potential clients and shareholders and other actors in the industries that we serve. Any damage to our reputation, whether arising from regulatory, supervisory or enforcement actions, matters affecting our financial reporting or compliance with SEC and exchange listing requirements, negative publicity, the way in which we conduct our business or otherwise could strain our existing relationships and make it difficult for us to develop new relationships. Any such damage to our reputation and relationships could in turn lead to a material adverse effect on our business.. 30. Table of Contents. A decline in our stock price or expected future cash flows, or a material adverse change in our results of operations or prospects, could result in impairment of our goodwill.. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization below book value, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of our goodwill. At December 31, 2017, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $1.9 billion. If we were to conclude that a write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then the appropriate charge would likely cause a material loss. Any significant loss would further adversely impact the capacity of Pinnacle Bank to pay dividends to us without seeking prior regulatory approval, which could adversely affect our ability to pay required interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness.. Competition with other banking institutions could adversely affect our profitability.. A number of banking institutions in our geographic markets have higher lending limits, more banking offices, and a larger market share of loans or deposits than we do. In addition, our asset management division competes with numerous brokerage firms and mutual fund companies which are also much larger. In some respects, this may place these competitors in a competitive advantage. This competition may limit or reduce our profitability (including as a result of compression to our net interest margin), reduce our growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Inability to retain senior management and key employees or to attract new experienced financial services professionals could impair our relationship with our customers, reduce growth and adversely affect our business.. We have assembled a senior management team which has substantial background and experience in banking and financial services in our markets. Moreover, much of our organic loan growth in 2012 through 2017 (like the growth that we are seeking going forward) was the result of our ability to attract experienced financial services professionals who have been able to attract customers from other financial institutions. We anticipate deploying a similar hiring strategy in the Carolinas and Virginia. Inability to retain these key personnel (including key personnel of the businesses we have acquired) or to continue to attract experienced lenders (including, in either case, as a result of competitive compensation and other hiring and retention pressures resulting from the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) with established books of business could negatively impact our growth because of the loss of these individuals' skills and customer relationships and/or the potential difficulty of promptly replacing them. Moreover, the higher costs we have to pay to hire and retain these experienced individuals could cause our noninterest expense levels to rise and negatively impact our results of operations.. We are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results.. We are from time to time subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. As we have aggressively hired new revenue producing associates over the last five years we, and the associates we have hired, have also periodically been the subject of litigation and threatened litigation with these associates' former employers. We may also be subject to claims related to our loan servicing programs, particularly those involving servicing of commercial real estate loans. These and other claims and legal actions, as well as supervisory and enforcement actions by our regulators, including the CFPB or other regulatory agencies with which we deal, including those with oversight of our loan servicing programs, could involve large monetary claims, capital directives, agreements with federal regulators, cease and desist orders and significant defense costs. The outcome of any such cases or actions is uncertain. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.. Our business is dependent on technology, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. We have made significant investments in data processing, management information systems and internet banking accessibility. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create additional efficiencies in our operations through the use of technology. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that our technological improvements will increase our operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.. 31. Table of Contents. We are subject to various statutes and regulations that may impose additional costs or limit our ability to take certain actions.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged on loans, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements established by our regulators, which require us to maintain specified levels of capital. It is possible that our FDIC assessments may increase in the future. Any future assessment increases could negatively impact our results of operations. Significant changes in laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry have been recently adopted and others are being considered in Congress. We cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting models and tools.. The processes we use to estimate probable credit losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other measures of our financial condition and results of operations, depend upon the use of analytical and forecasting models and tools. These models and tools reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are accurate, the models and tools may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. Any such failure in our analytical or forecasting models and tools could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial stability of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to various counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial and correspondent banks, and others. As a result, defaults by, or rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may result in market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by such other institutions. Such occurrences could expose us to credit risk in the event of default of one or more counterparties and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into certain transactions, we rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers, including financial statements, credit reports, tax returns and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, tax returns or other financial information could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to claims and litigation asserting lender liability.. From time to time, and particularly during periods of economic stress, customers, including real estate developers and consumer borrowers, may make claims or otherwise take legal action pertaining to performance of our responsibilities. These claims are often referred to as \"lender liability\" claims and are sometimes brought in an effort to produce or increase leverage against us in workout negotiations or debt collection proceedings. Lender liability claims frequently assert one or more of the following allegations: breach of fiduciary duties, fraud, economic duress, breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and similar claims. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the performance of our responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a favorable manner, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect our market reputation, products and services, as well as potentially affecting customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. 32. Table of Contents. Natural disasters may adversely affect us.. Our operations and customer base are located in markets where natural disasters, including tornadoes, severe storms, fires, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes often occur. Such natural disasters could significantly impact the local population and economies and our business, and could pose physical risks to our properties. Although our banking offices are geographically dispersed throughout portions of the southeastern United States and we maintain insurance coverages for such events, a significant natural disaster in or near one or more of our markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:. • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition;. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts;. • failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors;. • actions by institutional shareholders;. • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors;. • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;. • market perceptions about the innovation economy, including levels of funding or \"exit\" activities of companies in the industries we serve;. • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;. • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; and. • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance.. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will further depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, and future sales of our equity or equity-related securities. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation, as well as the loss of key employees.. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited.. While our board of directors has approved the payment of a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock since the fourth quarter of 2013, there can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors. Our principal source of funds used to pay cash dividends on our common stock will be dividends that we receive from Pinnacle Bank. Although Pinnacle Bank's asset quality, earnings performance, liquidity and capital requirements will be taken into account before we declare or pay any future dividends on our common stock, our board of directors will also consider our liquidity and capital requirements and our board of directors could determine to declare and pay dividends without relying on dividend payments from Pinnacle Bank.. Federal and state banking laws and regulations and state corporate laws restrict the amount of dividends we may declare and pay and that Pinnacle Bank may declare and pay to us. For example, Federal Reserve regulations implementing the capital rules required under Basel III do not permit dividends unless capital levels exceed certain higher levels applying capital conservation buffers that began to apply on January 1, 2016 and are being phased in over three years.. In addition, the terms of (i) our subordinated debentures, (ii) the subordinated notes we assumed upon consummation of the Avenue merger, and (iii) the subordinated debentures and subordinated notes we assumed upon the consummation of the BNC merger, prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock at times when we are deferring the payment of interest on such subordinated debentures or subordinated notes. Moreover, the terms of the loan agreement for Pinnacle Financial's line of credit prohibits us from paying dividends when there is an event of default existing under the loan agreement, or the payment of a dividend would cause an event of default.. 33. Table of Contents. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders.. In order to maintain our or Pinnacle Bank's capital at desired or regulatory-required levels, we may issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions (as we did in connection with our acquisition of BNC and our other recent acquisitions) or investments in fee-related businesses such as BHG, which could also dilute shareholder ownership.. Holders of Pinnacle Financial's and Pinnacle Bank's indebtedness and junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of Pinnacle Financial's shareholders.. At December 31, 2017, Pinnacle Financial had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $133.0. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by Pinnacle Financial, and the accompanying subordinated debentures are senior to shares of Pinnacle Financial's common stock. As a result, Pinnacle Financial must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on common stock and, in the event of Pinnacle Financial's bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Pinnacle Financial's common stock. Pinnacle Financial has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. If our financial condition deteriorates or if we do not receive required regulatory approvals, we may be required to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures.. From time to time, Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank have issued, and in connection with the Avenue merger and BNC merger, assumed, subordinated notes. At December 31, 2017, we and Pinnacle Bank had an aggregate of $340.5 million of subordinated notes outstanding, not including the subordinated debentures issued in connection with our trust preferred securities. The terms of these notes prohibit or will prohibit Pinnacle Financial or Pinnacle Bank, as applicable, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on its common stock at any time when payment of interest on these notes has not been timely made and while any such accrued and unpaid interest remains unpaid. Moreover, the notes we have issued or assumed rank senior to shares of Pinnacle Financial's common stock. In the event of any bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation of Pinnacle Financial, these notes, along with Pinnacle Financial's other indebtedness, would have to be repaid before Pinnacle Financial's shareholders would be entitled to receive any of the assets of Pinnacle Financial.. Pinnacle Financial or Pinnacle Bank may from time to time issue additional subordinated indebtedness that would have to be repaid before Pinnacle Financial's shareholders would be entitled to receive any of the assets of Pinnacle Financial or Pinnacle Bank.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our securities.. Maintaining and adapting our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is expensive and requires significant management attention. Moreover, as we continue to grow, our internal controls may become more complex and require additional resources to ensure they remain effective amid dynamic regulatory and other guidance. Failure to implement effective controls or difficulties encountered in the process may harm our results of operations and financial condition or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered accounting firm identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We may also face regulatory enforcement or other actions, including the potential delisting of our securities from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. This could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as the trading price of our securities, and could potentially subject us to litigation.. 34. Table of Contents. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock.. We have the ability under our current effective shelf registration statement to issue shares of preferred stock. Further, our shareholders authorized our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our shareholders. Our board also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up, and other terms. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, or if we issue debt securities, incur other borrowings or issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. We and/or the holders of certain classes of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies.. The ratings agencies regularly evaluate Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank, and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. There can be no assurance that we will not receive adverse changes in our ratings in the future, which could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding, and the way in which we are perceived in the capital markets. Actual or anticipated changes, or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, could affect the market value and liquidity of our securities, increase our borrowing costs and negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by us or our subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market's Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange.. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares.. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices.. Our corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Tennessee law to which we are subject contain certain provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, make more difficult or prevent an attempted acquisition of Pinnacle Financial that you may favor.. Our amended and restated charter, as amended, and bylaws, as amended, contain various provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of Pinnacle Financial. These provisions include:. • a provision requiring our board of directors to take into account specific factors when considering an acquisition proposal;. • a provision that all extraordinary corporate transactions to which we are a party must be approved by a majority of the directors and a majority of the shares entitled to vote;. • a provision that any special meeting of our shareholders may be called only by our chairman, our chief executive officer, our president, our board of directors, or the holders of 25% of the outstanding shares of our voting stock that have held those shares for at least one year; and. • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors at an annual or special meeting of shareholders at which directors are elected.. 35. Table of Contents. Additionally, our amended and restated charter, as amended, authorizes the board of directors to issue shares of our preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings, and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in us. In addition, certain provisions of Tennessee law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Tennessee corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of our company.. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit and is not guaranteed by the FDIC.. An investment in our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss or guaranteed by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. An investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described herein and our shareholders will bear the risk of loss if the value or market price of our common stock is adversely affected.. 36. Table of Contents"
