[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The information set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this report, including \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Item 7 and the financial statements and related notes this report contains. While we attempt to identify, manage and mitigate risks and uncertainties associated with our business to the extent practical under the circumstances, some level of risk and uncertainty will always be present. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may negatively impact our business, financial condition or operating results.. Set forth below are various risks and uncertainties that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Relating to the Oil and Gas Industry. • We derive all our revenues from companies in the oil and gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and gas prices.. As a provider of contract land drilling services and oil and gas production services, our business depends on the level of exploration and production activity in the geographic markets where we operate. The oil and gas exploration and production industry is a historically cyclical industry characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities.. Oil and gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in those prices, significantly affect the levels of those activities. Oil and gas prices have been volatile historically and, we believe, will continue to be so in the future. Worldwide political, economic, and military events as well as natural disasters have contributed to oil and gas price volatility historically, and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Many factors beyond our control affect oil and gas prices, including:. • the worldwide supply and demand for oil and gas;. • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;. • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves;. • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves;. • available pipeline and other oil and gas transportation capacity;. • the levels of oil and gas storage;. • the ability of oil and gas exploration and production companies to raise capital;. • economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere;. • actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which we refer to as OPEC;. • political instability in oil and gas producing regions;. • governmental regulations, both domestic and foreign;. • domestic and foreign tax policy;. • weather conditions in the United States and elsewhere;. • the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their national reserves, or their investments in oil and gas reserves located in other countries; and. • the price of foreign imports of oil and gas.. 14. Additionally, the above factors can also be affected by technological advances affecting energy consumption and the supply and demand within the market for renewable energy resources.. • As a result of the decline in oil prices that began in late 2014, our clients reduced spending on exploration and production projects in 2015 and 2016, resulting in a significant decrease in demand for our services, which has improved during 2017.. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly impact the level of worldwide drilling and production services activities. Reduced demand for oil and natural gas generally results in lower prices for these commodities and often impacts the economics of planned drilling projects and ongoing production projects, resulting in the curtailment, reduction, delay or postponement of such projects for an indeterminate period of time. When drilling and production activity and spending declines, both dayrates and utilization historically decline as well.. Beginning in October 2014, oil prices worldwide dropped significantly. Our clients significantly reduced both their operating and capital expenditures during 2015 and 2016, which adversely affected our business. In 2017, our clients modestly increased their spending as compared to 2016 levels, and we expect continued increases in 2018. However, if the oil and natural gas prices again decline, oil and gas exploration and production companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs and further reduce production spending on existing wells, thereby reducing demand for our services. If the reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and gas prices or otherwise, continues or worsens, it could materially and adversely affect us further by negatively impacting:. • our revenues, cash flows and profitability;. • the fair market value of our drilling rig fleet and production services equipment;. • our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity;. • our ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business or make acquisitions, and the cost of that capital;. • the collectability of our receivables; and. • our ability to retain skilled operations personnel.. Risks Relating to Our Business. • Reduced demand for or excess capacity of drilling services or production services could adversely affect our profitability.. Our profitability in the future will depend on many factors, but largely on pricing and utilization rates for our drilling and production services. A reduction in the demand for drilling rigs or an increase in the supply of drilling rigs, whether through new construction or refurbishment, could decrease the dayrates and utilization rates for our drilling services, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. An increase in supply of well servicing rigs, wireline units and coiled tubing units, without a corresponding increase in demand, could similarly decrease the pricing and utilization rates of our production services, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. • We operate in a highly competitive, fragmented industry in which price competition could reduce our profitability.. We encounter substantial competition from other drilling contractors and other oilfield service companies. Our primary market areas are highly fragmented and competitive. The fact that drilling and production services equipment are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry and may result in an oversupply of equipment in an area. Contract drilling companies and other oilfield service companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and the intensity of competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. If demand for drilling or production services improves in a region where we operate, our competitors might respond by moving in suitable rigs and production services equipment from other regions. An influx of equipment from other regions could rapidly intensify competition, reduce profitability and make any improvement in demand for our services short-lived.. Most drilling services contracts and production services contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition. In addition to pricing and equipment availability, we believe the following factors are also important to our clients in determining which drilling services or production services provider to select:. • the type, capability and condition of each of the competing drilling rigs, well servicing rigs, wireline units and coiled tubing units;. • the mobility and efficiency of the equipment;. 15. • the quality of service and experience of the crews;. • the reputation and safety record of the company providing the services;. • the offering of integrated and/or ancillary services; and. • the ability to provide drilling and production services equipment adaptable to, and personnel familiar with, new technologies and drilling and production techniques.. While we must be competitive in our pricing, our competitive strategy generally emphasizes the quality of our equipment, our safety record, our ability to offer ancillary services, the experience of our crews and the quality of service we provide to differentiate us from our competitors. This strategy is less effective when lower demand for drilling and production services intensifies price competition and makes it more difficult for us to compete on the basis of factors other than price. In all of the markets in which we compete, an oversupply of drilling rigs or production services equipment generally causes greater price competition and reduced profitability.. • We face competition from many competitors with greater resources.. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and other resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to:. • better withstand industry downturns;. • compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology;. • retain skilled personnel; and. • build new rigs or acquire and refurbish existing rigs and place them into service more quickly than us in periods of high drilling demand.. • Technological advancements and trends in our industry also affect the demand for certain types of equipment, and can affect the overall demand for equipment in our industry.. Technological advancements and trends in our industry also affect the demand for certain types of equipment, and can affect the overall demand for equipment in our industry. For several years, prior to late 2014, higher oil prices drove industry equipment utilization and revenue rates up, particularly in oil-producing regions and certain shale regions. However, advancements in technology improved the efficiency of drilling rigs and overall demand remained steady, while the demand for certain drilling rigs decreased, particularly in vertical well markets. The decline was a result of higher demand for drilling rigs that are able to drill horizontally and the increased use of \"pad drilling\" which enables a series of horizontal wells to be drilled in succession by walking or skidding a drilling rig at a single pad-site location, thereby improving the productivity of exploration and production activities and minimizing mobilization costs. This trend, then coupled with the downturn, resulted in significantly reduced demand for drilling rigs that do not have the ability to walk or skid and to drill horizontal wells, and could further reduce the overall demand for all drilling rigs.. In drilling, all rig classes were severely impacted by the industry downturn. However, AC drilling rigs equipped with either a walking or skidding system are the best suited for horizontal pad drilling and we believe they are the most desirable rig design available.. Although we take measures to ensure that we use advanced technologies for drilling and production services equipment, changes in technology or improvements in our competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to keep our equipment competitive, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. • We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of major clients, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to maintain relationships with these clients, or if their demand for our services decreases.. In the past, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of major clients. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our drilling and production services to our top three clients accounted for approximately 20%, 26%, and 29%, respectively, of our revenue. The loss of one or more of our major clients, or their decrease in demand for our services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We experienced significantly reduced demand for our services during 2015 and 2016 from all clients, including our major clients, but we experienced a modest recovery in demand during 2017. For a detail of our three largest clients as a percentage of our total revenues during the last three fiscal years, see Item 1 - \"Business\" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 16. • Our indebtedness could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.. Our indebtedness is primarily a result of the acquisitions of the well servicing and wireline services businesses which we acquired in 2008 and the coiled tubing business that we acquired in 2011, as well as organic growth investments. At December 31, 2017, our total debt consists of $300 million outstanding under our Senior Notes and $175 million outstanding under our Term Loan, with additional borrowing availability under our ABL Facility.. Our current and future indebtedness could have important consequences, including:. • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness;. • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general as a substantial portion of our operating cash flow could be required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, making it more difficult to react to changes in our business, industry and market conditions;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • impairing our ability to make investments and obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing that may be necessary to operate or expand our business;. • putting us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have less debt; and. • increasing our vulnerability to rising interest rates.. We currently expect that cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, proceeds from sales of certain non-strategic assets, and available borrowings under our ABL Facility are adequate to cover our liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to:. • conditions in the oil and gas industry;. • general economic and financial conditions;. • competition in the markets where we operate;. • the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business; and. • other factors, all of which are beyond our control.. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, subject to the limitations imposed by our Term Loan, ABL Facility and Senior Notes, such as:. • refinancing or restructuring our debt;. • selling assets;. • reducing or delaying acquisitions or capital investments, such as refurbishments of our rigs and related equipment; and/or. • seeking to raise additional capital.. However, we may be unable to implement alternative financing plans, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and any such alternative financing plans might be insufficient to allow us to meet our debt obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain the funds required to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in our Term Loan, ABL Facility, and Senior Notes, we could be in default under the terms of such instruments. In the event of a default, our lenders could elect to declare all the loans made under our Term Loan, ABL Facility, and Senior Notes to be due and payable together with accrued and unpaid interest and terminate their commitments thereunder and we or one or more of our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 17. • Our Term Loan, ABL Facility, and Senior Notes impose significant covenants on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business.. Our Term Loan contains customary restrictions that, among other things, and subject to certain exceptions, limit our ability to:. • incur additional debt;. • incur or permit liens on assets;. • make investments and acquisitions;. • consolidate or merge with another company;. • engage in asset sales; and. • pay dividends or make distributions.. In addition, our Term Loan requires us to maintain certain financial covenants and to satisfy certain financial conditions, which may require us to reduce our debt or take some other action in order to comply with them.. Our ABL Facility contains restrictive covenants that, among other things, and subject to certain exceptions, limit our ability to:. • declare dividends and make other distributions;. • issue or sell certain equity interests;. • optionally prepay, redeem or repurchase certain of our subordinated indebtedness;. • make loans or investments (including acquisitions);. • incur additional indebtedness or modify the terms of permitted indebtedness;. • grant liens;. • change our business or the business of our subsidiaries;. • merge, consolidate, reorganize, recapitalize, or reclassify our equity interests;. • sell our assets, and. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates.. The Indenture governing our Senior Notes, among other things, limits us and certain of our subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions, in our ability to:. • pay dividends on stock, repurchase stock, redeem subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments and investments;. • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred or disqualified stock;. • create liens on our or their assets;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • sell or transfer assets;. • borrow, pay dividends, or transfer other assets from certain of our subsidiaries;. • consolidate with or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our properties to any other person;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • enter into new lines of business.. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause an event of default under our Term Loan, ABL Facility, or Senior Notes. An event of default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to pay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. These covenants could also limit our ability to obtain future financing, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We also may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our Term Loan, ABL Facility, and Senior Notes.. • Our operations involve operating hazards, which, if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in exploration and production activity, including the risks of:. • blowouts;. • cratering;. • fires and explosions;. • loss of well control;. 18. • collapse of the borehole;. • damaged or lost drilling equipment; and. • damage or loss from natural disasters.. Any of these hazards can result in substantial liabilities or losses to us from, among other things:. • suspension of operations;. • damage to, or destruction of, our property and equipment and that of others;. • personal injury and loss of life;. • damage to producing or potentially productive oil and gas formations through which we drill; and. • environmental damage.. We seek to protect ourselves from some but not all operating hazards through insurance coverage. However, some risks are either not insurable or insurance is available only at rates that we consider uneconomical. Those risks include, among other things, pollution liability in excess of relatively low limits. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we attempt to obtain contractual protection against uninsured operating risks from our clients. However, clients who provide contractual indemnification protection may not in all cases maintain adequate insurance or otherwise have the financial resources necessary to support their indemnification obligations. Our insurance or indemnification arrangements may not adequately protect us against liability or loss from all the hazards of our operations. The occurrence of a significant event that we have not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a client to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable.. • We could be adversely affected if shortages of equipment, supplies or personnel occur.. From time to time, there have been shortages of drilling and production services equipment and supplies during periods of high demand which we believe could recur. Shortages could result in increased prices for equipment or supplies that we may be unable to pass on to clients. In addition, during periods of shortages, the delivery times for equipment and supplies can be substantially longer. Any significant delays in our obtaining equipment or supplies could limit our operations and jeopardize our relations with clients. In addition, shortages of equipment or supplies could delay and adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts for our rigs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our strategy of constructing drilling rigs during periods of peak demand requires that we maintain an adequate supply of drilling rig components to complete our rig building program. Our suppliers may be unable to continue providing us the needed drilling rig components if their manufacturing sources are unable to fulfill their commitments.. Our operations require the services of employees having the technical training and experience necessary to achieve proper operational results. As a result, our operations depend, to a considerable extent, on the continuing availability of such personnel. Shortages of qualified personnel have occurred in our industry. If we should suffer any material loss of personnel to competitors or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience to adequately operate our equipment, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. The occurrence of either of these events for a significant period of time could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. • Our acquisition strategy exposes us to various risks, including those relating to difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition opportunities and integrating businesses, assets and personnel, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing for targeted acquisitions and the potential for increased leverage or debt service requirements.. A component of our long-term business strategy is a pursuit of acquisitions of complementary assets and businesses, subject to the limitations imposed by our Term Loan, ABL Facility, and Senior Notes. This acquisition strategy in general involves numerous inherent risks, including:. • unanticipated costs and assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities;. • difficulties in integrating the operations and assets of the acquired business and the acquired personnel;. • limitations on our ability to properly assess and maintain an effective internal control environment over an acquired business in order to comply with applicable periodic reporting requirements;. • potential losses of key employees and clients of the acquired businesses;. 19. • risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and. • increases in our expenses and working capital requirements.. The process of integrating an acquired business may involve unforeseen costs and delays or other operational, technical and financial difficulties that may require a disproportionate amount of management attention and financial and other resources. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we may not have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions. Historically, we have funded business acquisitions and the growth of our rig fleet through a combination of debt and equity financing. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities or convertible securities in connection with such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all.. Even if we have access to the necessary capital, we may be unable to continue to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets.. • Our cash and cash equivalents and short term investments could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail.. We maintain cash balances at third-party financial institutions in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit. While we monitor the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, we may incur a loss to the extent such loss exceeds the insurance limitation, and there could be a material impact on our business, if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets and bank regulators elect to impose losses on uninsured depositors. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents. However, in the future, our invested cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets.. • Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our domestic operations.. Our international operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties not generally encountered in our U.S. operations which include, among potential others:. • risks of war, terrorism, civil unrest and kidnapping of employees;. • employee strikes, work stoppages, labor disputes and other slowdowns;. • expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of our assets;. • renegotiation or nullification of contracts;. • foreign taxation, such as the tax for equality and the net-worth tax in Colombia;. • the inability to repatriate earnings or capital due to laws limiting the right and ability of foreign subsidiaries to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies;. • changing political conditions and changing laws and policies affecting trade and investment;. • concentration of clients;. • regional economic downturns;. • the overlap of different tax structures;. • the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws;. • the risks associated with the assertion of foreign sovereignty over areas in which our operations are conducted;. • the risks associated with any lack of compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (\"FCPA\") or other anti-corruption laws;. • the risks associated with fluctuating currency values, hard currency shortages and controls of foreign currency exchange, and higher rates of inflation as compared to our domestic operations;. • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable; and. • potentially longer payment cycles.. 20. Additionally, we may be subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations could adversely affect our ability to compete.. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and our code of conduct and ethics. We are subject, however, to the risk that our employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA or other similar laws. Any violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and might materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Further, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management.. • Our operations are subject to various laws and governmental regulations that could restrict our future operations and increase our operating costs.. Many aspects of our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations, including laws and regulations governing:. • environmental quality;. • pollution control;. • remediation of contamination;. • preservation of natural resources;. • transportation; and. • worker safety.. Environment Protection. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations governing the protection of the environment and human health and safety.. Some of the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our industry relate to the disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials and restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of those substances that can be released into the environment. Several of those laws also require removal and remedial action and other cleanup under certain circumstances, commonly regardless of fault. Our operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous wastes and/or hazardous substances. Planning, implementation and maintenance of protective measures are required to prevent accidental discharges. Spills of oil, natural gas liquids, drilling fluids and other substances may subject us to penalties and cleanup requirements. Handling, storage and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are also subject to these regulatory requirements. In addition, our operations are often conducted in or near ecologically sensitive areas, such as wetlands, which are subject to special protective measures and which may expose us to additional operating costs and liabilities for accidental discharges of oil, gas, drilling fluids, contaminated water or other substances, or for noncompliance with other aspects of applicable laws and regulations.. The federal Clean Water Act; the Oil Pollution Act; the federal Clean Air Act; the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA); the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA); the federal Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA); regulations implementing these federal statutes (such as the 2015 Waters of the United States rule, which may be rescinded pursuant to a proposal issued in June 2017); and their state counterparts and similar statutes are the primary statutes that impose the requirements described above and provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties and other sanctions for violation of their requirements. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) \"community right-to-know\" regulations under Title III of the federal Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act and comparable state statutes require us to organize and report information about the hazardous materials we use in our operations to employees, state and local government authorities and local citizens. In addition, CERCLA, also known as the \"Superfund\" law, and similar state statutes impose strict liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered responsible for the release or threatened release of hazardous substances into the environment. These persons include the current owner or operator of a facility where a release has occurred, the owner or operator of a facility at the time a release occurred, and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found at a particular site. This liability may be joint and several. Such liability, which may be imposed for the conduct of others and for conditions others have caused, includes the cost of removal and remedial action as well as damages to natural resources. Few. 21. defenses exist to the liability imposed by many environmental laws and regulations. It is also common for third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage caused by substances released into the environment.. Environmental laws and regulations are complex and subject to frequent change. Failure to comply with governmental requirements or inadequate cooperation with governmental authorities could subject a responsible party to administrative, civil or criminal action. We may also be exposed to environmental or other liabilities originating from businesses and assets which we acquired from others. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of contamination or regulatory noncompliance may require us to make material expenditures or subject us to liabilities that we currently do not anticipate.. There are a variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements and legislative initiatives that have been introduced in the United States and international regions in which we operate that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Among these developments at the international level is the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which produced the \"Kyoto Protocol\" (an internationally applied protocol, which has been ratified in Colombia, which is a location where we provide drilling services) in 1992. More recently, in December 2015, 195 countries adopted under the Framework Convention a resolution known as the \"Paris Agreement\" to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases with a goal of limiting global warming to below 2 °C (3.6 °F). The Paris Agreement does not establish enforceable emissions reduction targets, but countries may establish greenhouse gas reduction measures pursuant to the agreement. The agreement went into effect in November 2016. The United States ratified the Paris Agreement in September 2016. It has since notified the United Nations of its intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, but under the terms of the agreement the U.S. will remain a party until approximately August 2020.. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the development of greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Also, more than one-third of the states already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. There have been two multi-state organizations devoted to climate action. The Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) is located in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic United States. The Western Regional Climate Action Initiative once included multiple U.S. states and much of Canada but is now comprised of California, British Columbia, Manitoba, Ontario, and Quebec.. In 2007, the United States Supreme Court, in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, held that carbon dioxide may be regulated as an \"air pollutant\" under the federal Clean Air Act. In December 2009, the EPA responded to this decision and issued a finding that the current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten the public health and welfare of current and future generations, and that certain greenhouse gases from motor vehicles contribute to the atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases and hence to the threat of climate change.. Based on these findings, in 2010 the EPA adopted two sets of regulations that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act, including one that requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and another that requires certain construction and operating permit reviews for greenhouse gas emissions from certain large stationary sources. In June 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court invalidated elements of the greenhouse gas permitting rule; however, the EPA can still impose certain greenhouse gas control requirements for certain large stationary sources. In addition, the EPA adopted rules requiring the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gases from certain sources, including, among others, onshore oil and natural gas production facilities.. In April 2012, the EPA issued regulations specifically applicable to the oil and gas industry that require operators to significantly reduce volatile organic compounds, or VOC, emissions from natural gas wells that are hydraulically fractured through the use of \"green completions\" to capture natural gas that would otherwise escape into the air. The EPA also issued regulations that establish standards for VOC emissions from several types of equipment at natural gas well sites, including storage tanks, compressors, dehydrators and pneumatic controllers.. In August 2015, the EPA finalized rules to limit carbon dioxide emissions from new and existing electric utility generating units. New units must meet specified carbon dioxide emissions limitations. The rules for existing units, known as the \"Clean Power Plan,\" were to require by 2030 an overall reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of 32% below the amount of carbon dioxide emitted in 2005. Although the EPA proposed repeal of the Clean Power Plan in October and December 2017, on December 28, 2017, the EPA issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking soliciting comments on emissions reductions that might be promulgated in place of the Clean Power Plan.. 22. In May 2016, the EPA issued a rule to reduce methane (a greenhouse gas) and VOC emissions from additional oil and gas operations. Among other requirements, the rules impose standards for hydraulically fractured oil wells and equipment leaks at oil and gas production sites and extend certain existing standards to downstream oil and gas operations. In April 2017, the EPA granted reconsideration of aspects of this rule.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed climate change initiatives will be adopted as initially written, if at all, or how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, these developments could curtail the demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our clients operate and thus adversely affect demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our future results of operations. Finally, we cannot predict with any certainty whether changes to temperature, storm intensity or precipitation patterns as a result of climate change will have a material impact on our operations.. In addition, our business depends on the demand for land drilling and production services from the oil and gas industry and, therefore, is affected by tax, environmental and other laws relating to the oil and gas industry generally, by changes in those laws and by changes in related administrative regulations. It is possible that these laws and regulations may in the future add significantly to our operating costs or those of our clients, or otherwise directly or indirectly affect our operations.. Our wireline operations involve the use of radioactive isotopes along with other nuclear, electrical, acoustic, and mechanical devices. Our activities involving the use of isotopes are regulated by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and specified agencies of certain states. Additionally, we use high explosive charges for perforating casing and formations, and we use various explosive cutters to assist in wellbore cleanout. Such operations are regulated by the U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives and require us to obtain licenses or other approvals for the use of densitometers as well as explosive charges. We have obtained these licenses and approvals when necessary and believe that we are in substantial compliance with these federal requirements.. Transportation. Among the services we provide, we operate as a motor carrier for the transportation of our own equipment and therefore are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations and regulatory safety. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the trucking industry, including testing and specification of equipment and product handling requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations which govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size.. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the U.S. Department of Transportation. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Such matters as weight and dimension of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations.. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to us will be enacted.. • Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our drilling and well servicing activities and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injection of water, sand, and a minor amount of certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. Federal agencies have adopted new rules, such as the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM) hydraulic fracturing rule finalized in March 2015, that impose additional requirements on the practice of hydraulic fracturing. In December 2017, the BLM rescinded this rule, but there may be litigation to reinstate the rule. In October 2016, the BLM updated its rules to restrict flaring associated with the development of oil and natural gas on public lands, including through hydraulic fracturing. Portions of the rule have been suspended until January 2019, but there may be litigation to reinstate the rule.. 23. Additional federal regulations may also be developed. Several states are considering legislation to regulate hydraulic fracturing practices that could impose more stringent permitting, transparency, and well construction requirements on hydraulic-fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether. Hydraulic fracturing of wells and subsurface water disposal are also under public and governmental scrutiny due to concerns regarding potential environmental and physical impacts, including groundwater and drinking water impacts, as well as whether such activities may cause earthquakes.. The federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the Underground Injection Control provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) to exclude certain hydraulic fracturing practices from the definition of \"underground injection.\" The EPA has asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel and has developed guidance relating to such practices. In addition, repeal of the SDWA exclusion of hydraulic fracturing has been advocated by certain advocacy organizations and others in the public. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the SDWA, which would have the effect of allowing the EPA to promulgate new regulations and permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing, and to require the disclosure of the chemical constituents of hydraulic fracturing fluids to a regulatory agency, which would make the information public via the Internet. For example, in May 2014, the EPA responded to a petition by environmental groups by issuing an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to solicit input regarding whether the agency should require manufacturers and processors of hydraulic fracturing chemicals to report composition and usage of such chemicals and to disclose associated health and safety studies.. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways, with the EPA having completed a multi-year study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing. The Final Report issued by the EPA in December 2016 concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances and identified conditions under which impacts can be more frequent or severe. In addition, in April 2012, the EPA issued the first federal air standards for natural gas wells that are hydraulically fractured, which  require operators to significantly reduce VOC emissions through the use of \"green completions\" to capture natural gas that would otherwise escape into the air. These new rules address emissions of various pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities by, among other things, requiring new or reworked hydraulically-fractured gas wells to control emissions through flaring or reduced emission (or \"green\") completions. The rules also establish specific new requirements, which were effective in 2012, for emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage tanks, gas processing plants, and certain other equipment. The EPA has amended these rules several times. In May 2016, the EPA finalized a rule to reduce methane (a greenhouse gas) and VOC emissions from oil and gas operations. It is also possible that the EPA will further amend its oil and gas regulations. These rules may require a number of modifications to our clients' and our own operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions. Compliance with such rules could result in additional costs for us and our clients, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which may adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.. The EPA has also developed effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities to publicly owned treatment works (POTW). The agency's final regulations, published on June 28, 2016, prohibited any discharge of wastewater pollutants from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to a POTW. The EPA will also be assessing whether oil and gas wastes should continue to be exempt from being considered hazardous waste under the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, pursuant to a Consent Decree with environmental groups approved in federal court in December 2016. The U.S. Department of the Interior has also finalized regulations relating to the use of hydraulic fracturing techniques on public lands and disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents (i.e. the BLM's hydraulic fracturing rule issued in March 2015) and has finalized, in October 2016, a rule to reduce flaring and venting associated with oil and gas operations on public lands. The BLM rules have since been rescinded or delayed, but it is possible that they will be reinstated through litigation.. In addition, some states and localities have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, that would require, with some exceptions, disclosure of constituents of hydraulic fracturing fluids, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production. Moreover, public debate over hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production continued to see strong public opposition, and has resulted in delays of well permits in some areas.. In June 2014, the State of New York's Court of Appeals upheld the right of individual municipalities in the State of New York to ban hydraulic fracturing using zoning restrictions. In December 2014, New York State Governor Cuomo announced that hydraulic fracturing will be permanently banned in the state. Similarly situated municipalities in other states may seek to ban or restrict resource extraction operations within their borders using zoning and/or setback. 24. restrictions, which could adversely affect the ability of resource extraction enterprises to operate in certain parts of the country, and thus adversely affect demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our future results of operations.. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, incurred by our clients. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations or ordinances restricting or increasing the costs of hydraulic fracturing could cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our drilling and well servicing activities, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. • Our operations are subject to cybersecurity risks.. Our operations are increasingly dependent on information technologies and services.  Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow, and include, among other things, storms and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, utility outages, theft, viruses, malware, design defects, human error, or complications encountered as existing systems are maintained, repaired, replaced, or upgraded. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things:. • loss, corruption, or misappropriation of intellectual property, or other proprietary or confidential information (including client, supplier, or employee data);. • disruption or impairment of our and our customers' business operations and safety procedures;. • loss or damage to our worksite data delivery systems; and. • increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events.. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks and other cyber events are evolving and unpredictable. Moreover, we do not have control over the information technology systems of our clients, suppliers, and others with which our systems may connect and communicate. As a result, the occurrence of a cyber incident could go unnoticed for a period time. Any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. • Our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited.. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change to utilize its net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards existing as of the date of such ownership change. Under the rules, such an ownership change is generally any change in ownership of more than 50% of a company's stock within a rolling three-year period. The rules generally operate by focusing on changes in ownership among shareholders owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the stock of a company and any change in ownership arising from new issuances of stock by the company.. If we were to undergo one or more \"ownership changes\" as defined by Section 382, our net operating losses and certain of our tax credits existing as of the date of each ownership change may be unavailable, in whole or in part, to offset U.S. federal income tax resulting from our operations or any gains from the disposition of any of our assets and/or business, which could result in increased U.S. federal income tax liability.. Risks Relating to Our Capitalization and Organizational Documents. • We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our shareholders.. We have not paid or declared any dividends on our common stock and currently intend to retain any earnings to fund our working capital needs, reduce debt and fund growth opportunities. Any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors it deems relevant, including our financial condition and performance, cash needs, income tax consequences and restrictions imposed by the Texas Business Organizations Code and other applicable laws and by our Term Loan, ABL Facility, and Senior Notes. Our debt arrangements include provisions that generally prohibit us from paying dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock.. 25. • We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine; however, our issuance of preferred stock is subject to the limitations imposed on us by our ABL Facility and Senior Notes. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. • Provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change in control of our company even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders.. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change in control of our company even if that change would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our company difficult, including:. • provisions regulating the ability of our shareholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our shareholders;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to call a special meeting and act by written consent;. • provisions dividing our board of directors into three classes elected for staggered terms; and. • the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock."
