[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to successfully identify, recruit and develop talent and will require us to commit additional resources.. Our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to successfully identify and recruit individuals and teams to join our firm. It typically takes time for these professionals to become profitable and effective. During that time, we may incur significant expenses and expend significant time and resources toward training, integration and business development aimed at developing this new talent. If we are unable to recruit and develop profitable professionals, we will not be able to implement our growth strategy and our financial results could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, sustaining growth will require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion, especially in instances where we open new offices that may require additional resources. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expanding operations effectively, and any failure to do so could materially adversely affect our ability to grow revenue and control our expenses.. 8. Changing market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the volume of the transactions involving our business, which could materially reduce our revenue.. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world, including many factors beyond our control. For example, a substantial portion of our revenue is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which we are involved. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the volume and value of M&A transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our M&A advisory services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. In addition, during periods of strong market and economic conditions, the volume and value of restructuring and reorganization transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our restructuring and special situations services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Our results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of such advisory transactions. Further, in the period following an economic downturn, the volume and value of M&A transactions typically takes time to recover and lags a recovery in market and economic conditions.. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions.. Our private fund advisory and placement services business is dependent on the availability of private capital for deployment in illiquid asset classes such as private equity, hedge and real estate funds for clients we serve.. Park Hill Group provides private fund advisory and placement services for alternative investment managers, including private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds. Our ability to find suitable engagements and earn fees in this business depends on the availability of private and public capital for investments in illiquid assets such as private equity, hedge and real estate funds. Our ability to assist fund managers and sponsors raise capital from investors depends on a number of factors, including many that are outside our control, such as the general economic environment, changes in the weight investors give to alternative asset investments as part of their overall investment portfolio among asset classes, and market liquidity and volatility. Additionally, certain investors, such as public pension plans, may have policies prohibiting the use of placement agents by fund sponsors or managers in connection with a limited partner's investment. To the extent private and public capital focused on illiquid investment opportunities for our clients is limited, the results of Park Hill Group may be adversely affected.. Our revenue in any given period is dependent in part on the number of fee-paying clients in such period, and a significant reduction in the number of fee-paying clients in any given period could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our operating results in such period.. A substantial portion of our revenue in any given period is dependent in part on the number of fee-paying clients in such period. We had 120 clients and 114 clients that generated fees equal to or greater than $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We may lose clients as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client's senior management, competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions and other causes. A significant reduction in the number of fee-paying clients in any given period could reduce our revenue and adversely affect our operating results in such period.. The composition of the group comprising our largest clients varies significantly from year to year, and a relatively small number of clients may account for a significant portion of our consolidated revenues in any given period. As a result, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity may be significantly affected by the loss of a relatively small number of mandates or the failure of a relatively small number of assignments to be completed. However, no client accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017 or 2016.. We have recorded net losses in the past and we may experience net losses in the future.. We have recorded consolidated or combined net losses in three of the five years ended December 31, 2017. A primary component of these net losses in each period was significant non-cash charges, consisting primarily of transaction-based equity-based compensation charges associated with Blackstone's initial public offering (\"IPO\") and in connection with the spin-off, the amortization of intangible assets that were recorded in connection with Blackstone's IPO and the acquisition of PJT Capital LP. We expect such non-cash charges to continue to be significant in future periods and, as a result, we may record net losses in future periods.. 9. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our restructuring and special situations services declines, our restructuring and special situations business could suffer.. We provide various financial restructuring and reorganization and related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors or other stakeholders. A number of factors affect demand for these advisory services, including general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing, governmental policy and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including those that protect creditors. In addition, providing restructuring and special situations advisory services entails the risk that the transaction will be unsuccessful, takes considerable time and can be subject to a bankruptcy court's discretionary power to disallow or discount our fees. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our restructuring and special situations advisory services declines, our restructuring and special situations business would be adversely affected.. We depend on the efforts and reputations of Mr. Taubman and other key personnel.. We depend on the efforts and reputations of Mr. Taubman and our other senior bankers. Our senior banking team's reputations and relationships with clients and potential clients are critical elements in the success of our business. Mr. Taubman and our other senior executives and bankers are important to our success because they are instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, maintaining relationships with our clients, and identifying business opportunities. The loss of one or more of these executives or other key individuals could impair our business and development until qualified replacements are found. We may not be able to replace these individuals quickly or with persons of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have employment agreements with certain of these individuals, we cannot prevent them from terminating their employment with us. In addition, our non-competition agreements with such individuals may not be enforced by the courts. The loss of the services of any of them, in particular Mr. Taubman, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to attract clients.. Our ability to retain and motivate our partners and other key personnel is critical to the success of our business.. Our future success and growth depends to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and motivate our partners and other key personnel. Our professionals possess substantial experience and expertise and have strong relationships with our clients. As a result, the loss of these professionals could jeopardize our relationships with clients and result in the loss of client engagements. We may not be successful in our efforts to retain and motivate the required personnel as the market for qualified advisory and funds advisory services professionals is extremely competitive.. As part of the spin-off, the Company granted a significant amount of restricted stock unit retention awards to PJT Partners personnel as well as restricted stock unit retention awards, subject to satisfaction of certain performance hurdles. A significant portion of such awards are expected to vest on March 31, 2018. The near-term vesting of these equity awards may diminish our ability to retain and motivate our professionals. There is no guarantee that our non-competition and current compensation arrangements with our professionals, in which we mandatorily defer a substantial portion of their annual incentive bonus in the form of equity awards with multi-year vesting periods, will provide sufficient protections or incentives to prevent our partners and other key personnel from resigning to join our competitors. The departure of a number of partners or groups of professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate and decline.. Our revenue and profits are highly volatile. We earn advisory fees, generally from a limited number of engagements that generate significant fees at key transaction milestones, such as closing, the timing of which is outside of our control. We expect that we will continue to rely on advisory fees for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, a decline in our advisory engagements or the market for advisory services would adversely affect our business. In addition, our financial results will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the timing of when fees are earned, and high levels of revenue in one quarter will not necessarily be predictive of continued high levels of revenue in future periods. Because advisory revenue is volatile and represents a significant portion of our total revenue, we may experience greater variations in our revenue and profits than other larger, more diversified competitors in the financial services industry. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results could, in turn, lead to large adverse movements in the price of our Class A common stock or increased volatility in our stock price generally.. 10. Because in many cases we are not paid until the successful consummation of the underlying transaction, our revenue is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients, interested third parties and governmental authorities. For example, we may be engaged by a client in connection with a sale or divestiture, but the transaction may not occur or be consummated because, among other things, anticipated bidders may not materialize, no bidder is prepared to pay our client's price or because our client's business experiences unexpected operating or financial problems. We may be engaged by a client in connection with an acquisition, but the transaction may not occur or be consummated for a number of reasons, including because our client may not be the winning bidder, failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the target's business experiences unexpected operating or financial problems. In these circumstances, we often do not receive significant advisory fees, despite the fact that we have devoted considerable resources to these transactions.. In addition, with respect to Park Hill Group, our private fund advisory and placement services business, we face the risk that we may not be able to collect on all or a portion of the fees that we recognize. The placement fees earned by Park Hill Group are generally recognized by us for accounting purposes upon the successful subscription by an investor in a client's fund and/or the closing of that fund. However, those fees are typically paid by a Park Hill Group client over a period of time with interest (for example, three to four years) following such successful subscription by an investor in a client's fund and/or the closing of that fund. There is a risk that during that period of time, Park Hill Group may not be able to collect all or a portion of the fees Park Hill Group is due for the funds advisory services it has already provided to such client. For instance, a Park Hill Group client's fund may be liquidated prior to the time that all or a portion of the fees due to Park Hill Group are due to be paid. Moreover, to the extent fewer assets are raised for funds or interest by investors in alternative asset funds declines, the placement fees earned by Park Hill Group would be adversely affected.. In addition, we face the risk that certain clients may not have the financial resources to pay our agreed-upon advisory fees. Certain clients may also be unwilling to pay our advisory fees in whole or in part, in which case we may have to incur significant costs to bring legal action to enforce our engagement agreements to obtain our advisory fees. We recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2017 and 2016 of $1.9 million and $4.4 million, respectively.. Future joint ventures, strategic investments and acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business.. In addition to recruiting and internal expansion, we may grow our core business through joint ventures, strategic investments or acquisitions. In the event we make strategic investments or acquisitions, we would face numerous risks and would be presented with financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the difficulty of integrating personnel, financial, accounting, technology and other systems and management controls.. Our failure to deal appropriately with actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business.. We confront actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest in our business. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts of interest. However, these policies, controls and procedures may not timely identify or appropriately manage such conflicts of interest as identifying and managing actual or perceived conflicts of interest is complex and difficult. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to client dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including a reluctance of some potential clients and counterparties to do business with us.. Employee or contractor misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and by subjecting us to legal liability and reputational harm.. There is a risk that our employees or contractors could engage in misconduct that would adversely affect our business. For example, our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients. If our employees or contractors were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients. It is not always possible to deter such misconduct, and. 11. the precautions we take to detect and prevent misconduct may not be effective in all cases. If our employees or contractors engage in misconduct, our business could be materially adversely affected.. In recent years, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC have devoted greater resources to enforcement of the FCPA. In addition, the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions have significantly expanded the reach of their anti-bribery laws. While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure strict compliance by us and our personnel with the FCPA, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or other applicable anti-corruption laws could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunctions on future conduct, securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects, financial position or the market value of our common shares.. We may face damage to our professional reputation or negative publicity if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or for other reasons.. As an advisory service firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services or we experience negative publicity related to our business and our people, regardless of whether the allegations are valid, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses.. We face strong competition from other financial advisory firms, many of which have greater resources and broader product and services offerings than we do.. The financial services industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. Our competitors are other investment banking and financial advisory firms. We compete on both a global and a regional basis, and on the basis of a number of factors, including depth of client relationships, industry knowledge, transaction execution skills, our range of products and services, innovation, reputation and price. In addition, in our business there are usually no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately solicited, awarded and negotiated.. We have experienced significant competition when obtaining advisory mandates, and we may experience pricing pressures in our business in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees.. Our primary competitors are large financial institutions, many of which have far greater financial and other resources and have the ability to offer a wider range of products and services. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage with regard to certain of our competitors who are able to and often do, provide financing or market making services that are often a crucial component of the types of transactions on which we advise. In addition to our larger competitors, over the last several years the number of independent investment banks that offer independent advisory services has increased. As these independent firms or new entrants into the market seek to gain market share there could be pricing pressures, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings.. In addition, Park Hill Group operates in a highly competitive environment and the barriers to entry into the private fund advisory and placement services business are low.. As a member of the financial services industry, we face substantial litigation risks.. Our role as advisor to our clients on important transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering \"fairness opinions\" in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and affected third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services companies have increased. These risks are difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Our engagements typically, but not always, include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us in all cases, including when a client does not have the financial capacity to pay under the indemnity. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against or settling litigation. In addition, we may have to spend a significant amount to adequately insure against these potential claims. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects.. 12. Extensive and evolving regulation of our business and the business of our clients exposes us to the potential for significant penalties and fines due to compliance failures, increases our costs and may result in limitations on the manner in which our business is conducted.. As a participant in the financial services industry, we are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and internationally. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. As a result of market volatility and disruption in recent years, the U.S. and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including providing assistance to financial institutions and taking certain regulatory actions. The long-term effects of these actions and of legislative and regulatory initiatives (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act) effected in connection with, and as a result of, such extraordinary disruption and volatility is uncertain, both as to the financial markets and participants in general, and as to us in particular.. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modification and further regulation. Such changes may increase the expenses we incur without necessarily leading to commensurate increases in operating revenue and income. Certain laws and regulations within the U.S. and internationally include extraterritorial application that may lead to overlapping or conflicting legal and regulatory burdens with additional risks and implementation expenses. New laws or regulations applicable to us and our clients also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes.. Our ability to conduct business and our operating results, including compliance costs, may be adversely affected as a result of any new requirements imposed by the SEC, FINRA or other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that regulate financial services firms or supervise financial markets. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. In addition, some of our clients or prospective clients may adopt policies that exceed regulatory requirements and impose additional restrictions affecting their dealings with us. Accordingly, we may incur significant costs to comply with U.S. and international regulation. In addition, new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our clients may adversely affect our business. For example, changes in antitrust laws or the enforcement of antitrust laws could affect the level of M&A activity and changes in applicable regulations could restrict the activities of our clients and their need for the types of advisory services that we provide to them. Additionally, the results of the most recent United States presidential and congressional elections could also create legal and regulatory uncertainty. Further, changes to existing tax laws and regulations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions in which we and our clients operate may reduce the level of M&A activity, including cross-border M&A activity.. The trade agreements under which U.S. companies currently exchange products and services around the world are subject to change. It is not known what specific measures might be proposed or how they would be implemented and enforced. There can be no assurance that pending or future legislation or execution in the U.S. that could significantly increase costs with respect to our foreign operations and, consequently, adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, will not be enacted.. In addition, several states and municipalities in the United States, including, but not limited to, California, Illinois, New York State and New York City have adopted \"pay-to-play\" and placement agent rules, which, in addition to imposing registration and reporting requirements, limit our ability to charge fees in connection with certain engagements of Park Hill Group or restrict or prohibit the use of placement agents in connection with investments by public pension funds. These types of measures could materially and adversely impact our Park Hill Group business.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in adverse publicity and reputational harm as well as fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration or any of our subsidiaries as a financial advisor and could impair retention or recruitment of personnel. In addition, any changes in the regulatory framework could impose additional expenses or capital requirements on us, result in limitations on the manner in which our business is conducted, have an adverse impact upon our financial condition and business and require substantial attention by senior management. Moreover, our business is subject to periodic examination by various regulatory authorities, and we cannot predict the outcome of any such examinations.. 13. Our business is subject to various cybersecurity and other operational risks.. We face various cybersecurity and other operational risks related to our business on a day-to-day basis. We rely heavily on financial, accounting, communication and other information technology systems, and the people who operate them. These systems, including the systems of third parties on whom we rely, may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of tampering or a breach of our network security systems or otherwise, including for reasons beyond our control.. Our clients typically provide us with sensitive and confidential information. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to securely process, transmit and store such information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, alliance partners and vendors. We may be subject to attempted security breaches and cyber-attacks and, while we are not aware of any such occurrence that may have had a material impact to date, a successful breach of our systems, or the systems used by our clients, alliance partners or vendors, could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems or third-party systems on which we rely and potential unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information. Breaches of our or third-party network security systems on which we rely could involve attacks that are intended to obtain unauthorized access to our proprietary information, destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses, cyber-attacks and other means and could originate from a wide variety of sources, including unknown third parties outside the firm. Although we take various measures to ensure the integrity of our and third-party systems on which we rely, there can be no assurance that these measures will provide adequate protection, especially because the cyber-attack techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched. If our or third-party systems on which we rely are compromised, do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer a disruption of our business, financial losses, liability to clients, regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation.. We operate a business that is highly dependent on information systems and technology. Any failure to keep accurate books and records can render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. We rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our business. Any interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third parties or failures of their information systems and technology could impair our operations, affect our reputation and adversely affect our business.. In addition, a disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic, other man-made or natural disaster or disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, could lead us to experience operational challenges, and our inability to timely and successfully recover could materially disrupt our business and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash in the future to service any future indebtedness or other contractual obligations, or a significant deterioration in the credit markets or the failure of one or more commercial banking institutions, could adversely affect our liquidity.. While the Company currently has no indebtedness, our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance any future debt obligations or other contractual obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance. We cannot provide assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, and interest on, any future indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund any future debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance such indebtedness or other contractual obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments of $182.7 million, of which $37.1 million was invested in U.S. Treasury bills. We monitor developments relating to the liquidity of these instruments on a regular basis. In the event of a significant deterioration of the credit markets or the failure of one or more commercial banking institutions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to liquidate these assets or access our cash. Our inability to access our cash or other assets could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and result in our inability to meet our obligations timely, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock.. Our international operations are subject to certain risks, which may affect our revenue.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we earned 13.6% of our total revenues from our international operations. We intend to grow our non-U.S. business, and this growth is important to our overall success. In addition, many of our larger clients are non-U.S. entities seeking to enter into transactions involving U.S.. 14. businesses. Our international operations carry special financial, business, regulatory and reputational risks, which could include the following:. •  greater difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations;. •  language and cultural differences;. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results;. •  unexpected and costly changes in trading policies, regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers;. •  restrictions on travel;. •  longer transaction cycles;. •  higher operating costs;. •  adverse consequences or restrictions on the repatriation of earnings;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences, such as trapped foreign losses;. •  less stable political and economic environments; and. •  civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity.. If our international business increases relative to our total business, these factors could have a more pronounced effect on our operating results.. We may enter into new lines of business, which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business.. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from our strategic advisory, restructuring and special situations and private fund advisory and placement services businesses. However, we may grow our business by entering into new lines of business. To the extent we enter into new lines of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with actual or perceived conflicts of interest because we would no longer be limited to the advisory business, the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk, the required investment of capital and other resources and the loss of clients due to the perception that we are no longer focusing on our core business.. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. In addition, certain aspects of our cost structure, such as costs for compensation, occupancy and equipment rentals, communication and information technology services, and depreciation and amortization will be largely fixed, and we may not be able to timely adjust these costs to match fluctuations in revenue related to our entering into new lines of business. If a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results.. Because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars and we receive a portion of our net revenue in other currencies (including euros and pounds sterling), we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. In addition, we pay certain of our expenses in such currencies. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our exposure to these foreign exchange fluctuations through the use of derivative instruments or otherwise. An appreciation or depreciation of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would result in an adverse or beneficial impact, respectively, to our financial results.. A change in relevant income tax laws, regulations or treaties or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities could result in an audit adjustment or revaluation of our deferred tax assets that may cause our effective tax rate and tax liability to be higher than what is currently presented in the consolidated and combined financial statements.. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated and combined financial statements, we are required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax liability and to. 15. assess temporary differences resulting from differing book versus tax treatment. Our effective tax rate and tax liability is based on the application of current income tax laws, regulations and treaties. These laws, regulations and treaties are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts and circumstances is sometimes open to interpretation. Management believes its application of current laws, regulations and treaties to be correct and sustainable upon examination by the tax authorities. However, the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation resulting in additional tax liability or adjustment to our income tax provision that could increase our effective tax rate. In addition, tax laws, regulations or treaties enacted in the future may cause us to remeasure our deferred tax assets and have a material change to our effective tax rate.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Legislation\") has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax (or \"repatriation tax\") on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits and introducing new anti-base erosion provisions. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require all companies to reflect the effects of the new law in financial statements of the period in which the law was enacted. Accordingly, we remeasured our deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the new rate and recorded an adjustment related to a decrease in the Amount Due Pursuant to Tax Receivable Agreement as of December 31, 2017. The impacts of the Tax Legislation, including the adjustment to the deferred tax account, are our best estimates based on the information that is available at the time of these financial statements and may change as additional information becomes available. Adjustments to deferred tax expense could arise if the actual timing of future deferred tax reversals and originations differs from current estimates. In addition, the Tax Legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. Furthermore, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. If an adjustment related to the Tax Legislation is required, it will be reflected as a discrete expense or benefit in the quarter that it is identified, as allowed by SEC guidance. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our Class A common stock.. The range of potential outcomes relating to arrangements between the European Union and the United Kingdom may adversely affect our business.. We conduct our business in European Union (\"E.U.\") countries through our subsidiary that is licensed in the United Kingdom (\"U.K.\"). On June 23, 2016, the U.K. voted in favor of a referendum to leave the E.U. and on March 29, 2017, the U.K. began the process to withdraw from the E.U. At the time that the U.K. ultimately leaves the E.U., the commercial, regulatory and legal environment that would exist, and to which our U.K. operations would be subject, would be impacted by the nature of arrangements that are yet to be determined between the U.K. and the E.U. These arrangements are difficult to predict, and uncertainty regarding their outcome may continue for a significant period of time. We currently do not expect that any of the potential arrangements that are likely to be agreed would have a material adverse impact on our business. These potential arrangements may, however, result in certain changes in the way that we conduct our businesses, which could result in increased costs. Our U.K. entity, PJT Partners (UK) Limited, primarily services European-domiciled clients. Adverse conditions arising from a U.K. exit from the E.U. could adversely affect our U.K. business and operations, including by reducing the volume or size of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic corporate transactions on which we seek to advise. A U.K. exit from the E.U. could also cause PJT Partners (UK) Limited to lose its E.U. financial services passport license, which allows it to operate, on a cross-border and off-shore basis, into all E.U. countries without obtaining regulatory approval outside of the U.K., which would increase our legal, compliance and operational costs. In addition, the result of the referendum and the uncertainty it produced has impacted geopolitical perspectives and macroeconomic factors, including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets, and it has increased volatility in many of the markets in which we operate. If these conditions continue or if current conditions worsen, our advisory business may be adversely affected, which may materially impact our financial position and results of operations.. The cost of compliance with international broker-dealer, employment, labor, benefits, privacy and tax laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and hamper our ability to expand internationally.. Since we operate our business both in the U.S. and internationally, we are subject to many distinct broker-dealer, employment, labor, benefits, privacy and tax laws in each country in which we operate, including regulations. 16. affecting our employment practices and our relations with our employees and service providers. In addition, the E.U.'s new data privacy and security framework, the General Data Protection Regulations (the \"GDPR\"), will take effect on May 25, 2018. As we engage in significant business in Europe, we will be subject to the GDPR's requirements. If we are required to comply with other new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations or interpretations, our business could be adversely affected or the cost of compliance may make it difficult to expand into new international markets. Additionally, our competitiveness in international markets may be adversely affected by regulations requiring, among other things, the awarding of contracts to local contractors, the employment of local citizens and/or the purchase of services from local businesses or favoring or requiring local ownership.. Restrictions in the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility may impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interests.. We have obtained a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $60 million with the option for a temporary increase of up to $80 million total.. The credit agreement governing such revolving credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, would require us to maintain certain minimum tangible net worth and liquidity and maximum leverage levels and the covenants may restrict our ability to:. •  sell assets;. •  incur more indebtedness;. •  repay certain indebtedness;. •  make certain investments or business acquisitions;. •  make certain capital expenditures;. •  engage in business mergers or consolidations; and. •  engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates.. These restrictions could impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interests. In addition, such credit agreement could also require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including those relating to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and consolidated indebtedness. Our ability to comply with these ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of the provisions of our credit agreement or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or covenants included therein could result in a default thereunder. In the event of any such default, the lenders under the credit agreement could elect to:. •  declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees to be due and immediately payable; and. •  require us to apply all of our available cash to repay our outstanding senior debt.. We have a limited operating history as an independent company and our historical financial information may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.. For periods prior to October 1, 2015, the historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K has been derived from the consolidated financial statements of Blackstone, and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been as a separate, stand-alone entity during such periods presented. Blackstone did not account for us, and we were not operated, as a single stand-alone entity for the periods presented prior to October 1, 2015. In addition, the historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. For example, following the spin-off, changes have occurred in our cost structure, funding and operations, including changes in our tax structure, increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with becoming a public, stand-alone company.. 17. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price.. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Matters impacting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could materially adversely affect us and lead to a decline in the market price of our shares.. Risks Relating to Our Organizational Structure. PJT Partners Inc.'s only material asset is its interest in PJT Partners Holdings LP and certain cash and cash equivalents it may hold from time to time, and it is accordingly dependent upon distributions from PJT Partners Holdings LP to pay taxes, make payments under the tax receivable agreement or pay dividends.. PJT Partners Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of Partnership Units, and certain cash and cash equivalents it may hold from time to time as described herein in \"Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Dividend Policy.\" PJT Partners Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. PJT Partners Holdings LP makes distributions to holders of its Partnership Units in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the tax receivable agreement and dividends, if any, declared by it. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of PJT Partners Holdings LP and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that PJT Partners Inc. needs funds, and PJT Partners Holdings LP is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. Payments of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, cash settlement of Partnership Unit exchanges, previous and anticipated amounts of dividend payments and share repurchases, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applicable to the payment of dividends, general economic, market and industry conditions and other considerations that our board of directors deem relevant from time to time. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains, and any financing arrangement that we enter into in the future may include, restrictive covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends. In addition, PJT Partners Holdings LP is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a partner to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of PJT Partners Holdings LP (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Subsidiaries of PJT Partners Holdings LP are generally subject to similar legal limitations on their ability to make distributions to PJT Partners Holdings LP. See \" - While we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our stockholders, there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends.\". A significant portion of the voting power in PJT Partners Inc. is controlled by holders of our Class B common stock, whose interests may differ from those of our public stockholders that hold Class A common stock.. The shares of Class B common stock have no economic rights but entitle the holder, without regard to the number of shares of Class B common stock held, to a number of votes that is equal to the aggregate number of vested and unvested Partnership Units and LTIP Units in PJT Partners Holdings LP held by such holder on all matters presented to stockholders of PJT Partners Inc. other than director elections and removals. With respect to the election and removal of directors of PJT Partners Inc., shares of Class B common stock initially entitle holders to only one vote per share, representing significantly less than one percent of the voting power entitled to vote thereon. However, the voting power of Class B common stock with respect to the election and removal of directors of PJT Partners Inc. may be increased to up to the number of votes to which a holder is then entitled on all other matters presented to stockholders. At December 31, 2017, our executive officers and directors held and/or controlled (including by way of the proxy granted to Mr. Taubman by certain executive officers of Blackstone) 3.4% of the voting power of PJT Partners Inc. with regard to the election and removal of directors, and 35.2% of the combined voting power of PJT Partners Inc. with regard to all other matters presented to stockholders of PJT Partners Inc. At. 18. December 31, 2017, our Class B common stockholders held significantly less than one percent of the voting power of PJT Partners Inc. with regard to the election and removal of directors, and 52.8% of the combined voting power of PJT Partners Inc., with regard to all other matters presented to stockholders of PJT Partners Inc. As a result, our Class B common stockholders, including Mr. Taubman, have the ability to exercise influence over the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, other than director elections and removals, including those related to equity compensation plans, certain related party transactions, and certain significant issuances of Class A common stock and other significant transactions, such as those involving a change of control or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Moreover, our Class B common stockholders, including Mr. Taubman, may gain the ability in the future to exercise significant influence over the outcome of director elections and removals, as well.. Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, our Class B common stockholders own 44.0% of the Partnership Units. Because they hold all or a portion of their economic ownership interest in our business directly in PJT Partners Holdings LP, rather than through PJT Partners Inc., our Class B common stockholders may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, if PJT Partners Holdings LP makes distributions to PJT Partners Inc., the limited partners of PJT Partners Holdings LP will also be entitled to receive such distributions pro rata in accordance with the percentages of their respective partnership interests in PJT Partners Holdings LP and their preferences as to the timing and amount of any such distributions may differ from those of our public stockholders. Our Class B common stockholders may also have different tax positions from us that could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement that we entered into in connection with the spin-off, whether and when to incur new indebtedness, and whether and when PJT Partners Inc. should terminate the tax receivable agreement and accelerate its obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these Partnership Unitholders' tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us.. PJT Partners Inc. may be required to make payments under a tax receivable agreement for most of the benefits relating to certain tax depreciation or amortization deductions that we may claim as a result of certain increases in tax basis.. Holders of Partnership Units (other than PJT Partners Inc.) have the right, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the partnership agreement of PJT Partners Holdings LP, on a quarterly basis (subject to the terms of the exchange agreement), to exchange all or part of their Partnership Units for cash or, at our election, for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for splits, unit distributions and reclassifications. Stock-settled exchanges and certain of these cash-settled exchanges are expected to result in increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of PJT Partners Holdings LP. These increases in tax basis may increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization deductions and therefore reduce the amount of tax that PJT Partners Inc. would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the IRS may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge.. We entered into a tax receivable agreement with the holders of Partnership Units (other than PJT Partners Inc.) that provides for the payment by PJT Partners Inc. to exchanging holders of Partnership Units of 85% of the benefits, if any, that PJT Partners Inc. is deemed to realize as a result of these increases in tax basis and of certain other tax benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement.. This payment obligation is an obligation of PJT Partners Inc. and not of PJT Partners Holdings LP. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that as a result of the size of the transfers and increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of PJT Partners Holdings LP, the payments that PJT Partners Inc. may make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon continued ownership of us by the holders of Partnership Units.. In certain cases, such as upon a change in control, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits PJT Partners Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement.. The tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, PJT Partners Inc. elects an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, PJT Partners Inc.'s obligations under the tax. 19. receivable agreement (with respect to all Partnership Units whether or not previously exchanged) would be calculated by reference to the value of all future payments that holders of Partnership Units would have been entitled to receive under the tax receivable agreement using certain valuation assumptions, including that PJT Partners Inc. will have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement and, in the case of an early termination election, that any Partnership Units that have not been exchanged are deemed exchanged for the market value of the shares of Class A common stock at the time of termination. In addition, if PJT Partners Inc. elects an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, holders of Partnership Units will generally not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if such tax basis increase is successfully challenged by the IRS. PJT Partners Inc.'s ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the tax receivable agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income. As a result, even in the absence of a change of control or an election to terminate the tax receivable agreement, payments under the tax receivable agreement could be in excess of PJT Partners Inc.'s actual cash tax savings.. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual cash tax savings that PJT Partners Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and/or if distributions to PJT Partners Inc. by PJT Partners Holdings LP are not sufficient to permit PJT Partners Inc. to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after it has paid taxes and other expenses. Based on the market value of a share of Class A common stock of $45.60 and the London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") of 2.11% at December 29, 2017, we estimate that if PJT Partners Inc. exercised its termination on December 31, 2017, the aggregate amount of these termination payments would be $148.2 million. The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payments could differ materially. We may need to incur additional indebtedness to finance payments under the tax receivable agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreement as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise.. We may be responsible for U.S. federal income tax liabilities that relate to the distribution.. The spin-off was conditioned on the receipt of an opinion of tax counsel to the effect that certain transactions in Blackstone's internal reorganization should qualify as tax-free distributions under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\"), and a certain transaction in the internal reorganization should qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368 of the Code. Blackstone's receipt of the opinion of tax counsel satisfied a condition to completion of the spin-off. An opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion. The opinion is based on certain factual statements and representations, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could cause the tax consequences of the transactions to be different than those set forth in the opinion.. At the time of the spin-off, Blackstone represented to us that it was not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause any such factual statements or representations in the opinion of tax counsel to be incomplete or untrue or cause the facts on which the opinion will be based to be materially different from the facts at the time of the spin-off. If, notwithstanding the receipt of the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS were to successfully assert that certain transactions in the internal reorganization were not tax-free distributions under Section 355 of the Code or that a certain transaction in the internal reorganization did not qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368 of the Code, one or both of the Blackstone subsidiaries that distributed their interest in our business (the \"Distributing Corporations\") or we would recognize a substantial tax liability.. Even if such transactions in the internal reorganization otherwise qualify as tax-free distributions for U.S. federal income tax purposes, such transactions will be taxable to one or both of the Distributing Corporations (but not to Blackstone common unitholders) pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code if there are one or more acquisitions (including by reason of issuances) of our stock in excess of specified thresholds, measured by vote or value, or acquisitions of the stock of one or both of the Distributing Corporations representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of the then-outstanding stock of us or such Distributing Corporation and the acquisition or acquisitions are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the transactions in the internal reorganization. Any acquisition of any class of our common stock or stock of a Distributing Corporation within two years before or after the distribution (with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances) generally will be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. The resulting tax liability may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 20. We have agreed not to enter into certain transactions that could cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to the Distributing Corporations, including under Section 355(e) of the Code. Pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, we agreed to indemnify Blackstone for any tax to a Distributing Corporation resulting from certain acquisitions of our stock, whether or not Blackstone consented to such actions or we were otherwise permitted to take such action under the Tax Matters Agreement. In addition, if certain transactions in the internal reorganization were taxable or became taxable, then under U.S. Department of the Treasury regulations we would be severally liable for the resulting U.S. federal income tax liability of one of the Distributing Corporations. These obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of PJT Partners Inc.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law and our Stockholder Rights Plan might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:. •  authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of Class A common stock;. •  provide that our board of directors will be divided into three classes, with terms of the directors of only one class expiring in any given year;. •  prohibit Class A common stockholders from acting by written consent unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office, but permit Class B common stockholders to act by written consent without requiring any such recommendation;. •  provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80% or more of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote;. •  provide that certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, including those providing for a classified board of directors, may be amended, altered, repealed or rescinded, in whole or in part, or any provision inconsistent therewith may be adopted, only with the approval of 80% or more of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and. •  establish advance notice procedures and minimum stock ownership requirements for stockholder nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings, as well as provide for director qualification requirements.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires, to the fullest extent permitted by law, that (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or stockholders to us or our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (\"DGCL\") or as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine will have to be brought only in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware, unless we agree otherwise. Although we believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law in the types of lawsuits to which it applies, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors, officers and stockholders.. In addition, immediately prior to the spin-off, Blackstone caused our prior board of directors to adopt a stockholder rights agreement, under which holders of our Class A common stock have been granted rights to purchase from us additional shares of our Class A common stock in the event that a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the then-outstanding Class A common stock without approval of our board of directors, subject to exceptions for, among other things, persons beneficially owning 15% or more of our Class A common stock as of the date of the initial filing with the SEC of our spin-off Registration Statement on Form 10 (or that would beneficially own 15% or more of our Class A common stock by virtue of the spin-off if the spin-off were consummated as of the date of such initial filing). The rights will expire on the earliest to occur of (a) October 1, 2018, (b) the time at which the rights are redeemed pursuant to the stockholder rights agreement, and (c) the time at which the rights are exchanged pursuant to the stockholder rights agreement.. 21. The stockholder rights agreement could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our Class A common stock without the approval of our board of directors. Acquisitions of shares of our Class A common stock as a result of acquiring additional Blackstone common units prior to the spin-off or shares representing our Class A common stock in the when-issued trading market or as a result of the spin-off will each be included in determining the beneficial ownership of a person and all such acquisitions will be taken into account in determining whether a person is an acquiring person under the terms of the stockholder rights agreement. Therefore, a person could become an acquiring person under the terms of the stockholder rights agreement simultaneously with the acquisition of our Class A common stock in the spin-off. Even if a person is initially an exempt person under the terms of the stockholder rights agreement, such person could lose such status as a result of pre-spin-off acquisitions. In addition, each Partnership Unit will have attached to it a preferred unit purchase right. Our stockholder rights plan was ratified by our stockholders at the PJT Partners Inc. 2016 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.. Certain provisions of the limited partnership agreement of PJT Partners Holdings LP may also prevent, delay or make more difficult, a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of our Class A common stock or otherwise be in their best interests. These provisions include, among others:. •  rights of limited partners of PJT Partners Holdings LP, subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, to approve certain change of control transactions involving us; and. •  following the occurrence of a \"Board Change of Control,\" rights of limited partners of PJT Partners Holdings LP to consent to certain corporate actions and transactions.. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire.. See \"Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions - PJT Partners Holdings LP Amended and Restated Limited Partnership Agreement\" in our definitive proxy statement filed in connection with our 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (our \"2017 Proxy Statement\").. Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Stock. You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional Class A common stock by PJT Partners Inc. and the future issuance of additional partnership units by PJT Partners Holdings LP, in each case in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise.. As of December 31, 2017, we have 2,981,400,546 shares of Class A common stock authorized but unissued, including 14,641,268 shares of Class A common stock that may be issued upon exchange of Partnership Units. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue these shares of Class A common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to Class A common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. Similarly, the limited partnership agreement of PJT Partners Holdings LP permits PJT Partners Holdings LP to issue an unlimited number of additional partnership interests of PJT Partners Holdings LP with designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties that are different from, and may be senior to, those applicable to the Partnership Units, and which may be exchangeable for shares of our Class A common stock. We have reserved 7,000,000 shares for issuance of new awards under our 2015 Omnibus Incentive Plan. In addition, as described under \"Executive Compensation - Partner Agreements - Merger and Spin-off Transaction Equity Grants - Founder Earn-Out Units\" in our 2017 Proxy Statement, Mr. Taubman and the other partners and employees of the Company received Earn-Out Units in PJT Partners Holdings LP that are subject to both service and market conditions. Any Class A common stock that we issue, including under our 2015 Omnibus Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute your percentage ownership of PJT Partners Inc.. The market price of our Class A common stock may decline due to the large number of shares of Class A common stock eligible for exchange and future sale.. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell shares of Class A common stock in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. 22. In addition, we and the holders of Partnership Units (other than PJT Partners Inc.) have entered into an exchange agreement under which they (or certain permitted transferees) have the right, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the partnership agreement of PJT Partners Holdings LP, on a quarterly basis, to exchange all or part of their Partnership Units for cash or, at our election, for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for splits, unit distributions and reclassifications. Further, pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of PJT Partners Holdings LP, we may also require holders of Partnership Units who are not Service Providers (as defined in the partnership agreement of PJT Partners Holdings LP) to exchange such Partnership Units.. Depending on our liquidity and capital resources, market conditions, the timing and concentration of exchange requests and other considerations, we may choose to fund cash-settled exchanges of Partnership Units with available cash, borrowings or new issuances of Class A common stock or to settle exchanges by issuing Class A common stock to the exchanging Partnership Unitholder. Issuing significant numbers of shares of our Class A common stock upon exchange of Partnership Units could adversely affect the tax consequences to Blackstone of the distribution. Accordingly, while we will retain the right under the Exchange Agreement to elect to settle exchanges in cash or Class A common stock in our sole discretion, we currently intend to limit such issuances of Class A common stock in settlement of exchanges of Partnership Units to the extent necessary to preserve the intended tax-free nature of the spin-off and to comply with our obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of our Class A common stock to fund cash-settled exchanges of Partnership Units, or sales by exchanging holders of Partnership Units of Class A common stock received in stock-settled exchanges or, in each case, the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for holders of our Class A common stock to sell such stock in the future at a time and at a price that they deem appropriate. See \"Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions - Exchange Agreement\" in our 2017 Proxy Statement.. Our decision to return cash to our shareholders through repurchases of our Class A common stock may not prove to be the best use of our capital or result in the effects we anticipated, including a positive return of capital to stockholders.. We have authority from our board of directors to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock in an amount up to $100 million. As of December 31, 2017, the available amount remaining for repurchases under this program was $97.7 million, which we may implement through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, after taking into account our results of operations, financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax and regulatory constraints or restrictions, any contractual restrictions (including any restrictions contained in the credit agreement) and other factors we deem relevant. There can be no assurances of the price at which we may be able to repurchase our shares or that we will repurchase the full amount authorized. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any past or future repurchases will have a positive impact on our stock price or that the share repurchase plan provides the best use of our capital because the value of our common stock may decline significantly below the levels at which we repurchased shares of common stock.. If we were to cease or were unable to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock, or choose to allocate available capital to the repayment of borrowings, payment of dividends or other corporate purposes, the number of shares outstanding may increase over time, diluting the ownership of our existing stockholders.. 23. Our decision to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock will reduce our public float, which could cause our share price to decline.. The share repurchase plan will reduce our \"public float,\" (the number of shares of our Class A common stock that are owned by non-affiliated stockholders and available for trading in the securities markets), which may reduce the volume of trading in our shares and result in reduced liquidity and cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock unrelated to our performance. Furthermore, certain institutional holders of shares of our Class A common stock (including index funds) may require a minimum market capitalization of each of their holdings in excess of our market capitalization and therefore be required to dispose of shares of our Class A common stock, which may cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline. There can be no assurance that this reduction in our public float will not result in a lower share price or reduced liquidity in the trading market for shares of our Class A common stock during and upon completion of our share repurchase plan.. While we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our stockholders, there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends.. Although we currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend to our stockholders, we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time. Whether we continue and the amount and timing of any dividends are subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and agreements of the Company applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends. The reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price.. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our Class A common stock to decline.. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our Company or our sector, the price of our Class A common stock could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control the research decisions made by these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrades our Company or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our Company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline."
