[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, which are not exhaustive, in connection with any investment in our stock.  Our stock price will reflect the performance of our business relative to, among other things, our competition, expectations of securities analysts or investors, and general global and regional economic, market and industry conditions.  Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of the following risks occur.  Accordingly, the trading price of our stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment.. Adverse or uncertain global and regional economic conditions may materially adversely affect us.. Our operations and financial performance are dependent on the global and regional economies as well as industry specific trends and events.  Uncertainty regarding future economic conditions and the markets into which we sell makes it challenging both in the near and long-term to forecast operating results, make business decisions, and identify risks that may affect our business, sources and uses of cash, financial condition, and results of operations.  Economic concerns, such as uncertain or inconsistent global or regional economic growth, stagnation or contraction, including the pace of economic growth in the United States in comparison to other geographic and economic regions, pressure on economic growth in Europe, uncertain growth prospects in the Asia Pacific region, as well as actual or potential geopolitical conflicts and their short and long-term economic impact, increase the uncertainty and unpredictability for our business as consumers, businesses and governmental agencies periodically and often unpredictably postpone or forego spending.  A global economic downturn, changes in the industries to which we sell our products, or erratic or declining business or governmental spending or hiring may reduce sales of our products, increase sales cycles, slow adoption of new technologies, increase price competition, and cause customers and suppliers to default on their financial obligations.. Additionally, to the extent governments implement general or specific reductions in spending, demand for our products by those governmental agencies subject to the measures and by customers who derive all or a portion of their revenues from these agencies, may decline.  Similarly, to the extent uncertainty regarding public debt limits or governmental budgets hinder spending by retail consumers, businesses or governmental agencies, sales of our products may be materially harmed or delayed.. Additionally, our customers suffer from their own financial and economic challenges.  If global or regional economic conditions deteriorate, whether in general or in specific markets, customers may demand pricing accommodations, delay payments or become insolvent. It is impossible to reliably determine if and to what extent customers may suffer, whether we will be required to adjust our prices or face collection issues with customers or if customer bankruptcies will occur.. Our operating results are difficult to predict, and fluctuations may cause volatility in the trading price of our common stock.. Given the nature of the markets in which we compete, our revenues and profitability vary from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict for many reasons, including the following:. •variations in the volume and timing of orders received during each quarter;. • shifts in the particular types of products ordered and the geographic locations of the customers placing orders;. • the timing of customers' sales promotions and campaigns;. • the timing of large customer deployments, including UC&C infrastructure;. • the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions by us and our competitors and obsolescence or discontinuance of existing products;. • competition, including pricing pressure, promotions and campaigns by us, our competitors or our customers;. • failure to timely introduce new products within projected costs and reduce costs as production increases;. • changes in technology and desired product features, including whether those changes occur as and when anticipated;. • general economic conditions in the U.S. and our international markets, including foreign currency fluctuations;. • seasonality, particularly as related to our retail channels during the winter holiday season;. • customer cancellations and rescheduling;. • fluctuations in raw materials and components costs;. • investments in and the costs associated with strategic initiatives; and. • changes in accounting rules or their interpretation.. Fluctuations in our operating results, including the failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of financial analysts, may cause volatility, including material decreases, in the trading price of our common stock.. 10. Table of Contents. The failure to successfully finance and close the Polycom acquisition and thereafter integrate their business and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect our business and financial results or the business and financial result of the combined company.. We believe the acquisition of Polycom will result in certain benefits, including acceleration and expansion of our market opportunities, creation of a broad portfolio of communications and collaboration endpoints, significant expansion of services offerings, immediate financial accretion, and significant operational efficiencies and cost synergies.  However, our ability to realize these anticipated benefits depends on closing of the acquisition and thereafter the successful integration of the businesses and financing of debt obligations.  The combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition for a variety of reasons, including the following:. • we may be unable to integrate Polycom's business within our own in a timely and cost-efficient manner or do so without adversely impacting operations, including new product launches;. • expected synergies or operating efficiencies may fail to materialize in whole or part or may not occur within expected time-frames;. • the acquisition may adversely impact ours or Polycom's relationships with respective customers, suppliers and strategic partners and their operating results and businesses generally (including the diversion of management time on transaction-related issues);. • each company may be unable to retain and hire all or a portion of their respective key personnel;. • legal and regulatory enforcement matters that are pending at Polycom may adversely impact the results of the combined company;. • financing that we obtain to consummate the acquisition is not on anticipated terms or is not available at all, which is magnified by the absence of a financing condition for the transaction;. • our increased leverage as a result of the transaction will be substantially greater than prior to the acquisition which may pose risks, including reduced flexibility to make changes in our operations in response to business or economic conditions, increased borrowing costs, as well as penalties or costs should we fail to comply with terms of the financial agreements such as debt ratios and financial and operation performance targets;. • negative effects on the market price of our common stock as a result of the transaction, particularly in light of the issuance of our stock in the transaction;. • our financial reporting including those resulting from the adoption of new accounting pronouncements and associated system implementations in the context of the transaction, our ability to forecast financial results of the combined company and that we may be unable to successfully integrate our reporting system causing an adverse impact to our ability to make timely and accurate filings with the SEC and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies;. • the potential impact of the transaction on our future tax rate and payments based on the consolidation global entity and our ability to quickly integrate foreign operations;. • the challenges of integrating the supply chains of the two companies; and. • the potential that our due diligence did not uncover risks and potential liabilities of Polycom.. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses or delays.  If we are unable to successfully integrate Polycom's business and operations in a timely manner, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be fully realized, or at all, or may take longer to realize than anticipated.  Should any of the foregoing or other currently unanticipated risks arise, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted.. Further, if the closing of the transaction is materially delayed beyond our expectations or if we are unable to close the transaction at all, our business may be adversely affected. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction expenses in connection with the acquisition regardless of whether the transaction is completed. Furthermore, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on our stock price, or negative reactions from our customers, suppliers or other business partners, should the acquisition not be completed.. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to effectively market our Enterprise products, and our business could be materially adversely affected if markets do not develop as expected or we are unable to compete successfully.. Our Enterprise products represent our largest source of revenue, and we regard the market for products designed for UC&C as our greatest long-term opportunity in the Enterprise market.  We believe the implementation of UC&C technologies by large enterprises will be a significant long-term driver of UC&C product adoption, and, as a result, a key long-term driver of our revenue and profit growth.  Accordingly, we continue to invest in the development of new products and enhance existing products to be more appealing in functionality and design for the UC&C office market; however, there is no guarantee significant UC&C growth will occur, when it might occur, or that we will successfully take advantage of it if it does occur.. Our ability to realize and achieve positive financial results from Enterprise product sales, and UC&C sales in particular, could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the following:. 11. Table of Contents. • As UC&C becomes more widely adopted, competitors may offer solutions that effectively commoditize our products, which, in turn, may pressure us to reduce the prices of one or more of our products.. • The market success of major platform providers and strategic partners such as Microsoft Corporation, Cisco Systems, Inc., Avaya, Inc., Genesys, Amazon, and Huawei, and our influence over such providers with respect to the functionality of their platforms and product offerings, their rate of deployment, and their willingness to integrate their platforms and product offerings with our solutions, is limited.  For example, Microsoft's decision to transition from Lync to Skype for Business in early Fiscal Year 2016 proved to be a significant market transition that caused end customers to pause their deployment schemes or schedules while they assessed the implications of Microsoft's decision.. • Failure to timely introduce solutions that are cost effective, feature-rich, stable, durable, and attractive to customers within forecasted development budgets.. • Failure to successfully implement and execute new and different processes involving the design, development, and manufacturing of complex electronic systems composed of hardware, firmware, and software that works seamlessly and continuously in a wide variety of environments and with multiple devices.. • Failure of UC&C solutions generally, or our solutions in particular, to be adopted with the breadth and speed we anticipate.  For example, concerns about data privacy and the security of information and data stored over the Internet and wireless security in general, each of which is further enabled by UC&C solutions, including our products, have caused entities in various markets to reassess the data protection compliance and security safeguards of our devices.. • Failure of our sales model and expertise to support complex integration of hardware and software with UC&C infrastructure consistent with changing customer expectations.. • Increased competition for market share, particularly given that some competitors have superior technical and economic resources enabling them to take greater advantage of market opportunities.. • Sales cycles for more complex UC&C deployments are longer as compared to our traditional Enterprise products.. • Our inability to timely and cost-effectively adapt to changes and future business requirements may impact our profitability in this market and our overall margins.. • Failure to expand our technical support capabilities to support the complex and proprietary platforms in which our products are and will be integrated as well as increases in our support expenditures over time.. If our investments in, and strategic focus on, Enterprise products and UC&C products, in particular, do not generate incremental revenue, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. If we fail to accurately forecast demand we may under or overestimate production requirements resulting in lost business or write offs of excess inventory which may materially harm our business, reputation and results of operations.. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short-term customer commitments, decreasing product life cycles, and changes in demand.  Production levels are generally forecasted based on non-binding customer forecasts and historic product demand and we often place orders with suppliers for materials, components and sub-assemblies (\"materials and components\") as well as finished products 13 weeks or more in advance of projected customer orders.  Actual customer demand depends on many factors and may vary significantly from forecasts.  We will lose opportunities to increase revenues and profits and may incur increased costs and penalties including expedited shipping fees and late delivery penalties if we underestimate customer demand.. Conversely, overestimating demand may result in higher inventories of materials and components and finished products, which may later require us to write off all or a material portion of our inventories.  We routinely review inventory for usage potential, including fulfillment of customer warranty obligations and spare part requirements, and we write down to the lower of cost or market value the excess and obsolete inventory, which may materially adversely affect our results of operations.. For instance, periodically, we or our competitors announce new products, capabilities, or technologies that replace or shorten the life cycles of legacy products or cause customers to defer or stop purchasing legacy products until new products become available.  Additionally, new product announcements may incite customers to increase purchases of successful legacy products as part of a last-time buy strategy, thereby increasing sales in the short-term while decreasing future sales and delaying new product adoption.  These risks increase the difficulty of accurately forecasting demand for discontinued and new products as well as the likelihood of inventory obsolescence, loss of revenue and associated gross profit.. If any of the above occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed.. 12. Table of Contents. If our suppliers and sub-suppliers cannot timely deliver sufficient quantities of quality materials and components and finished products, our ability to fulfill customer demand may be adversely impacted and our growth, business, reputation and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. Our growth and ability to meet customer demand depends in part on our ability to timely obtain sufficient quantities of materials and components as well as finished products of acceptable quality at acceptable prices.  We buy materials and components from a variety of suppliers and assemble them into finished products.  In addition, certain of our products and key portions of our products lines are manufactured for us by third party original design and contract manufacturers (\"ODMs\") who obtain materials and sub-components from long and often complex chains of sub-suppliers.  The cost, quality, and availability of the services, materials and components and finished products these ODMs and third parties supply are essential to our success.. Our reliance on these ODMs and third parties therefore involves significant risks, including the following:. • We rely on suppliers for critical aspects of our business.  For instance, we obtain a majority of our Bluetooth products from GoerTek, Inc.  Suppliers such as GoerTek may choose to discontinue supplying materials and components or finished products to us for a variety of reasons, including conflicting demands from their other customers, availability and price.. • The accelerating pace of technological advancement by our suppliers frequently makes it more difficult to continue to procure essential components like integrated circuits for those of our products already in the market.  Any failure to obtain key components to meet customer demand may (i) require us to obtain a replacement supply of satisfactory quality which may be difficult, time-consuming, or costly, (ii) force us to redesign or end-of-life certain products, (iii) delay manufacturing, (iv) require us to make large last-time buys based on speculative long-term forecasts in excess of our short-term needs, holding materials and components or finished products in inventory for extended periods of time, or (v) being unable to meet customer demand.. • The lack of viable alternative sources of materials and components or the high development costs associated with existing and emerging wireless and other technologies may require us to work with a single source for silicon chips, chip-sets, or other materials and components in one or more products.  Moreover, lead times are particularly long for silicon-based components incorporating radio frequency and digital signal processing technologies and such materials and components make up an increasingly larger portion of our product costs.  Additionally, many orders for consumer products have shorter lead times than component lead times, making it necessary for us or our suppliers to carry more inventory in anticipation of orders, which may not materialize.. • A substantial portion of the materials and components used in our products are provided by our suppliers on consignment. As such, we do not take title to, or risk of loss of, these materials and components until they are consumed in the production process.  Our supply agreements generally allow us to return parts in excess of maximum order quantities at the suppliers' expense.  Returns for other reasons are negotiated with suppliers on a case-by-case basis and are generally immaterial.  If we are required or choose to purchase all or a material portion of the consigned materials and components or if a material number of our suppliers refuse to accept orders on consignment, our inventory turn rate may decline or we could incur material unanticipated expenses, including write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory.. • Rapid increases in production levels to meet product demand, whether or not forecasted, could result in shipment delays, higher costs for materials and components, increased expenditures for freight to expedite delivery of required materials, late delivery penalties, and higher overtime costs and other expenses, any of which could materially negatively impact our revenues, reduce profit margins, and harm relationships with affected customers.  If constraints were to occur in existing or future product lines our ability to meet demand and our corresponding ability to sell affected products may be materially reduced.  Moreover, our failure to timely deliver desirable products to meet demand may harm relationships with our customers.  Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing yields may decrease, which may also reduce our revenues or margins.. Any of the foregoing could cause us to be able to timely meet customer demand and thereby materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Prices of certain raw materials and components may rise depending upon global market conditions which may adversely affect our margins.. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience volatility in prices from our suppliers, particularly in light of price fluctuations for oil, gold, copper, and other materials and components in the U.S. and around the world, which could negatively affect our profitability or market share.  If we are unable to pass cost increases on to our customers or achieve operating efficiencies that offset any increases, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We have strong competitors and expect to face additional competition from existing and new market participants in the future.  If we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. All of the markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive and market leadership may change as a result of new product and technology introductions, new market participants and pricing.  We face pressure on our selling prices, sales terms and conditions, and in connection with product performance and functionality.  Also, aggressive industry pricing practices may decrease margins.  For a further description of our competitors and the markets in which we compete, see Item 1, Business, in this Form 10-K.. Many of our competitors are larger, offer broader product lines, may integrate their products with communications devices and adapters manufactured by them or others, offer products incompatible with our products, have established market positions, and have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources.. We also face competition from companies, principally located in or originating from the Asia Pacific region, which offer low cost products, including products modeled on, direct copies of, or counterfeits of our products.  Online marketplaces make it easier for disreputable and fraudulent sellers to introduce their copies or counterfeit products into the stream of commerce by commingling legitimate products with copies and counterfeits; thereby making it extremely difficult to track and remove copies and counterfeits.  The introduction of low cost alternatives, copies and counterfeits has resulted in and will continue to cause market pricing pressure, customer dissatisfaction and harm to our reputation and brand name.  If product prices are substantially reduced by new or existing market participants, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Moreover, if we do not distinguish our products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition, our products may become commoditized.  In addition, failure to effectively market our products could lead to lower and more volatile revenue and earnings, excess inventory, and the inability to recover associated development costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The markets for our Consumer products are volatile and our ability to compete successfully in one or more of these categories is subject to many risks.. Competition in the markets for our Consumer products, which consist primarily of Bluetooth headsets, gaming, entertainment and computer audio headsets, is intense and presents significant manufacturing, marketing and operational risks and uncertainties.  The risks include the following:. • The global market for mono Bluetooth continues to decrease.  The market for stereo Bluetooth headsets continues to grow, although it remains dominated by lifestyle brands.  Our market share has been and is significantly larger in the mono Bluetooth than stereo Bluetooth market and thus far we have been unable to sufficiently increase share in the stereo Bluetooth market to offset decreases in the mono Bluetooth market.. • Reductions in the number of suppliers participating in the Bluetooth market has reduced our sourcing options and may in the future increase our costs at a time when our ability to offset higher costs with product price increases is limited.. • Difficulties retaining or obtaining shelf space and maintaining a robust and compelling eCommerce presence for our Consumer products in our sales channel, particularly with large \"brick and mortar\" retailers and Internet \"etailers\" as the market for mono Bluetooth headsets contracts.. • Relying on a dwindling number of retail customers that have significant market share in the shrinking mono Bluetooth category increases our exposure to pricing pressure, unexpected changes in demand and may result in unanticipated fluctuations in our revenues and margins.. • The varying pace and scale of economic activity in many regions of the world creates demand uncertainty and unpredictability for our Consumer products.. • The need to rapidly and frequently adopt new technology to keep pace with changing market trends.  In particular, we anticipate a trend towards more integrated solutions that combine audio, video, and software functionality that we expect will further shorten product lifecycles.. Failure to compete successfully in the Consumer business markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. We are exposed to differences and frequent fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our revenues, gross profit, and profitability.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our revenues and profitability because we report our financial statements in USD and purchase a majority of our component parts from our supply chain in USD, whereas a significant portion of our sales are transacted in other currencies, particularly the Euro and the British Pound Sterling (\"GBP\").  If the USD strengthens further, it could further harm our financial condition and operating results in the future.  Furthermore, fluctuations in foreign currency rates impact our global pricing strategy, which may result in our lowering or raising selling prices in one or more currencies to minimize disparities with USD prices and to respond to currency-driven competitive pricing actions.  Should the dollar remain strong or strengthen further against foreign currencies, principally the Euro and the GBP, we may be compelled to raise prices for customers in the affected regions.  Price increases may be unacceptable to our customers who could choose to replace our products with less costly alternatives in which case our sales and market share will be adversely impacted.  If we reduce prices to stay competitive in the affected regions, our profitability may be harmed.. Large or frequent fluctuations in foreign currency rates, coupled with the ease of identifying global price differences for our products via the Internet, increases pricing pressure and allows unauthorized third party \"grey market\" resellers to take advantage of price disparities, thereby undermining our premium brand image, established sales channels, and support and operations infrastructure.  We also have significant manufacturing operations in Mexico and fluctuations in the Mexican Peso exchange rate can impact our gross profit and profitability.  Additionally, the majority of our suppliers are located internationally, principally in Asia, and volatile or sustained increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Asian currencies may result in increased costs or reductions in the number of suppliers qualified to meet our standards.. Although we hedge currency exchange rates exposures we deem material, changes in exchange rates may nonetheless still have a negative impact on our financial results.  Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation, decisions and actions of central banks and political developments.. We hedge a portion of our Euro and GBP forecasted revenue exposures for the future, typically over 12-month periods.  In addition, we hedge a portion of our Mexican Peso forecasted cost of revenues and maintain foreign currency forward contracts denominated in Euros, GBP, Australian and Canadian Dollars that hedge against a portion of our foreign-currency denominated assets and liabilities.  Our foreign currency hedging contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, particularly if the fluctuations are significant or sustained, and we do not execute hedging contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business.  There is no assurance that our hedging strategies will be effective.  Additionally, even if our hedging techniques are successful in the periods during which the rates are hedged, our future revenues, gross profit, and profitability may be negatively affected both at current rates and by adverse fluctuations in currencies against the USD.  See Item 7A for further quantitative information regarding potential foreign currency fluctuations.. In May 2015 we issued $500.0 million of 5.50% senior unsecured notes and entered into an Amended and Restated $100.0 million revolving line of credit facility.  Issuance of the notes and any draws against the credit facility may adversely affect our future financial condition and financial results.. As of March 31, 2018, we had $500 million in 5.50% senior unsecured notes outstanding and the ability to draw up to $100.0 million against a revolving line of credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association.  Additionally, in connection with our proposed acquisition of Polycom, we estimate we will incur approximately $690 million in net debt including replacement of our existing line of credit agreement with a secured credit agreement. Risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include:. • Requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our currently existing or future indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes;. • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate including, without limitation, restricting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur liens or enter into certain types of transactions such as sale and lease-back transactions;. • Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable; and. • Our inability to repay or refinance the then-outstanding principal balance of the Notes on maturity or to repay or refinance other future indebtedness.. Periodically, we have drawn funds under our existing credit facilities in connection with our corporate return of capital policy and for other purposes which are subject to interest charges.  Moreover, the credit agreement contains, and future debt instruments are expected to contain, affirmative and negative covenants with which we must comply in addition to those covenants in our 5.50% senior unsecured notes.  These covenants do or will apply regardless of whether any loans under the credit agreement or any successor credit agreement are outstanding and could adversely impact how we operate our business, our ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities, our operating results, and ability to pay dividends or repurchase our common stock, which, in turn, may negatively impact our stock price.. 15. Table of Contents. In addition, if we borrow additional funds under our existing credit agreement or any successor agreement, we may be required to increase the borrowing limit or seek additional sources of borrowing.  Given current credit and debt markets, there is no assurance that if we were to seek additional credit or debt, it would be available when needed or if it is available, the cost or terms and conditions would be acceptable.. If any of the foregoing risks occur, we may be unable to pay any indebtedness, including interest, when due, and may be required to curtail activities to comply with our obligations under the senior unsecured notes or other debt obligations.  Additionally, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the potential costs associated with a refinancing of our debt. The rating agencies measure us by our performance against certain financial metrics. If we do not meet these metrics there is a risk the rating agencies may downgrade our rating. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, our ability to obtain additional financing in the future could be diminished and could affect the terms of any such financing.  If any of those things occur, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We cannot guarantee we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to stock repurchase programs or that we will pay dividends at historic rates or at all.  The repurchase of our common stock and the payment of dividends may require us to borrow against our credit agreement or incur indebtedness and may not achieve our objectives.. We have a history of recurring stock repurchase programs and payment of quarterly dividends. Any determination to continue to pay cash dividends at recent rates or at all, or authorization or continuance of any share repurchase programs is contingent on a variety of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that such dividends or share repurchases are in the best interests of our stockholders and in compliance with all applicable laws and agreements.  Furthermore, while any debt repayment obligations remain outstanding in connection with our acquisition of Polycom our ability to return capital to stockholders through stock repurchases, dividend declarations or otherwise may be limited in whole or in part.. Additionally, any future stock repurchases and dividend declarations may require us to draw against available funds under our credit agreement or incur additional indebtedness, any of which may obligate us to pay interest, require payment of other expenses, and may not be available to us or available on terms we deem acceptable.  Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will continue to repurchase stock at recent historical levels or at all, or that our stock repurchase programs or dividend declarations will have a beneficial impact on our stock price.. We operate in multiple tax jurisdictions globally and our corporate tax rate may increase or we may incur additional income tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. We have significant operations in various tax jurisdictions throughout the world, and a substantial portion of our taxable income has historically been generated in jurisdictions outside of the U.S.  Should there be changes in foreign tax laws that seek to impose withholding taxes on the repatriation of cash or increase foreign tax rates on overseas earnings our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Various governmental tax authorities have recently increased their scrutiny of tax strategies employed by corporations and individuals.  In addition, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development issued guidelines and proposals during Fiscal Year 2016 that may change how our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner in which our profits are currently recognized, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We are also subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other tax authorities, including state revenue agencies and foreign governments.  While we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from examinations by the IRS and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome resulting from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Changes in applicable tax regulations and resolutions of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results.. The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex. As rule making bodies and new legislation is enacted to interpret the Tax Act, these changes may adjust the estimates provided in this report. The changes may possibly be material, due to, among other things, the Treasury Department's promulgation of regulations and guidance that interpret the Tax Act, corrective technical legislative amendments that may change the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries.. In addition, it is uncertain how each country where we do business may react to the Tax Act. Moreover, the evolving global tax landscape accompanying the adoption and guidance associated with the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting reporting requirements (\"BEPS\") recommended by the G8, G20 and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\") may require us to make adjustments to our financial results. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes, it is difficult to assess whether the overall effect of these potential tax changes would be positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.. Our business will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to develop, manufacture, integrate and market new products in response to changing customer requirements and new technologies.. The technology used in our products is evolving more rapidly than in the past and we anticipate this trend will continue.  Historically, new products primarily offered stylistic changes and quality improvements rather than significant new technologies.  Our increasing reliance and focus on the UC&C market has resulted in a growing number of our products that integrate complex, state-of-the-art technology, increasing the risks associated with new product ramp-up, including product design, integration of third party intellectual property with our own or other third party applications, performance compliance with product specifications, and defects in the early stages of production.. Office phones have begun to incorporate Bluetooth functionality, which has opened the market to consumer Bluetooth headsets and reduced the demand for our traditional office telephony headsets and adapters, resulting in lost revenue and lower margins.  Additionally, the advent of more and different types of mobile devices has decreased the need for traditional desk phones with a distinct headset and may limit sales of both corded and cordless headsets in the future.  Moreover, the increasing adoption of wireless technologies has resulted in increased development costs associated with new and evolving wireless standards. If sales and margins on our traditional corded products decline and we are unable to successfully design, develop, and market alternatives at comparable margins, our revenue and profits may decrease.. In addition, innovative technologies have moved the platform for certain of our products from our customers' closed proprietary systems to open platforms such as the PC, smart phones and tablets.  In turn, these devices have become more open as a result of technologies such as cloud computing and trends toward more open source software code development.  As a result, the risk that current and potential competitors could enter our markets and commoditize our products by offering similar products has increased.. Moreover, the potential for new and emerging technologies to disrupt one or more of our material market categories continues to grow.  We cannot assure that we will successfully anticipate or respond to new and emerging challenges in a timely or competitive basis or at all which could significantly harm our business and financial results.. The success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to:. • Anticipate technology and market trends;. • Develop innovative new products and service offerings and enhance existing offerings on a timely basis;. • Distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors;. • Create industrial designs that appeal to our customers and end-users;. • Create and monetize software solutions that allow businesses to improve IT and employee performance;. • Manufacture and deliver high-quality products that are simple to operate in sufficient volumes and acceptable margins;. • Offer and timely deliver services that are intuitive to use and provide the information and data customers desire;. • Price our products and services competitively;. • Hire and retain qualified personnel in the highly competitive field of software development;. • Provide timely, effective and accurate technical product support to our customers; or. • Leverage new and existing channel partners effectively.. 17. Table of Contents. If we are unable to develop, manufacture, market, integrate and introduce enhanced or new products and services in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, including new and disruptive technologies and changing fashion trends and styles, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.. Our new and evolving service offerings, including Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), are strategically important to our future growth and profitability and our business may be harmed or our revenues and profitability materially hurt if we fail to successfully bring new offerings to market.. Our future growth and profitability are tied to our ability to successfully bring to market new and innovative services offerings like our SaaS subscription services.  We are investing significant time, resources and money into our SaaS offerings with no expectation that they will provide material revenue in the near term and without any assurance they will succeed.  Moreover, we expect that as we continue to explore, develop and refine new offerings they will continue to evolve, may not generate sufficient interest by end customers, may create channel conflicts with our existing hardware distribution partners, and we may be unable to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or achieve or maintain acceptable levels of profitability.. Additionally, our experience with cloud services offerings is limited.  We are also substantively reliant on third party service providers for significant aspects of our offerings and over whom we have little or no market power regarding pricing, support, service levels and compliance.  If we do not successfully execute our cloud strategy or anticipate the needs of our customers, our credibility as a cloud services provider could be questioned and our prospects for future revenue growth and profitability may never materialize.. Moreover, if our new and evolving business models offerings achieve market acceptance, differences in revenue recognition treatment may cause short-term revenue declines or increase expenditures for operational, administrative and technical support.. Accordingly, if we fail to successfully launch, manage and maintain our new and evolving services offerings future revenue growth and profitability may be limited   our business significantly harmed.. We have significant manufacturing, assembly and packaging operations in Mexico and rely on third party manufacturers located outside of U.S., and a significant amount of our revenues are generated internationally, each of which subjects our business to risks of international operations.. We own and operate a manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico, which is responsible for assembly of a significant portion of our Enterprise products from materials and components sourced from various suppliers in Asia and North America, and other suppliers. Additionally, our Tijuana facility is primarily responsible for the packaging and final processing of most of our Consumer products after manufacturing and assembly by third parties, many of which are located in Asia. Also, we generate a significant amount of our revenues from foreign customers.. Our international operations and sales expose us to various risks including, among others:. • Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • Cultural differences in the conduct of business;. • Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods;. • Impact of recessionary, volatile or adverse global economic conditions;. • Reduced intellectual property rights protections in some countries;. • Different and changing regulatory requirements;. • Implementation or expansion of trade restrictions, sanctions or other penalties against one or more countries, its citizens or industries;. • Unstable or uncertain political and economic situations such as the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union;. • Tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers, including recent actions in the United States, China as well as historical regulations in developing nations such as Brazil, India, and others;. • Political conditions, health epidemics, civil unrest, or criminal activities within countries in which we operate;. • Management, operation, and expenses associated with an enterprise spread over various countries;. • Burden and administrative costs of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;. • Currency restrictions; and. • Compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom's Bribery Act.. Additionally, proposals to impose tariffs, border taxes, and other actions related to the importation of goods from Mexico as well as renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada which have been suggested by the United States Government.  Considering the nature and extent of our operations in Tijuana, our revenues and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted should any legislation or executive actions take effect that limit or increase the cost of importing our products.  Alternatively, if we deem it necessary to alter all or a portion of our domestic and international activities in response to such legislation or executive actions, our capital and operating costs may increase, possibly substantially.. 18. Table of Contents. The above listed and other inherent risks of international operations could materially and adversely affect regional economic activity and business operations in general, which in turn may harm our business, financial conditions, and results of operations.. Historically, we have sold our products through various distribution channels that can be volatile.  As we expand our offerings to include more services, the nature and type of our distribution networks needed to effectively sell them are likely to diverge from our historical hardware channels.  Any failure to establish and maintain successful relationships with our channel partners could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  In addition, customer bankruptcies or financial difficulties may impact our business.. Historically, we have sold substantially all of our hardware products through distributors, retailers, OEMs, and telephony service providers.  Effectively managing these relationships and avoiding channel conflicts is challenging.  Our existing relationships with these parties are generally not exclusive and can be terminated by us or them without cause on short notice.  These customers also sell or may sell products offered by our competitors.  To the extent our competitors offer more favorable terms or more compelling products, our customers may not recommend, de-emphasize, or discontinue carrying our products.  Moreover, our OEMs may elect to manufacture their own products similar to those we offer.. Additionally, it is becoming easier for small online sellers to enter the market unburdened with physical locations, employees and support personnel which can force our larger traditional brick and mortar resellers to reduce their selling prices.  In turn, our traditional resellers may demand lower selling prices from us, more cooperative and marketing incentives, reduce their sales support needed to maintain our premium brand image, discontinue carrying our products and other similar adverse actions.  As we begin to expand our offerings to include services, many of our historical channel partners may be unwilling or unable to market our services forcing us to establish new or different relationships.  Further, increased competition among resellers may cause some of our resellers and partners to experience financial difficulties or force them to shut down, decreasing our channels to market.  The inability to establish or maintain successful relationships with distributors, OEMs, retailers, and telephony service providers or to maintain quality distribution channels and sales models could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Also, periodically we implement new incentive programs or modify existing programs to focus our sales channels or improve go-to-market efficiencies or we choose to end existing programs.  The success or failure of these initiatives can vary and programs initially successful can prove less so over time or have unintended consequences, particularly if our partners deem them difficult, time-consuming or disruptive, or the terms of the programs or our agreements are unacceptable.. Moreover, we have an extensive global distribution network of distribution partners making it difficult to identify and enforce contractual breaches and violations of law including, without limitation, import and export violations, extraterritorial or \"grey market\" sales, sales to unauthorized, unqualified and disreputable resellers, copyright and trademark violations and other similar activities.  The advent of global Internet-based commerce and sharp decreases in the cost to quickly ship products internationally has exacerbated the problem, increasing the likelihood of commoditization of our products and harming our premier image with reputable resellers and end user customers.. If we are unable to establish and maintain relationships with quality distributors and resellers for our existing and new offerings, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially, adversely affected.. We have a number of large customers with substantial market power whose ability to demand pricing and promotion concessions as well as other unfavorable terms makes sales forecasting difficult and harms our profitability.. Our customer mix is changing, and certain retailers, OEMs, and wireless carriers are more significant.  In particular, we have several large customers whose order patterns are difficult to predict.  Offers and promotions by these customers may result in significant fluctuations in their purchasing activities over time, which may increase the volatility of our revenues.  If we are unable to correctly anticipate the quantities and timing of their purchase requirements, our revenues may be adversely affected, or we may be left holding large volumes of inventory that cannot be sold to other customers.. Furthermore, many customers with whom we conduct business are quite large with substantial buying power or who have strategic importance to our product marketing objectives.  Many use their buying power or strategic importance to mandate onerous terms and conditions to conduct business including unfavorable payment terms, late and inaccurate shipping fees and penalties, generous return rights, most favored pricing, and mandatory marketing and promotional fees.  These terms are often non-negotiable and are frequently broad, ambiguous and inconsistent across customers making compliance complex and subject to interpretation.  If our compliance with these or similar future provisions are incorrect or inadequate, we could be liable for breach of contract damages or our reputation with one or more key customers could be materially adversely harmed, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. The increased use of software in our products could impact the way we recognize revenue which, if material or done incorrectly, could adversely affect our financial results.. We are increasingly incorporating advanced software features and functionalities into our products, offering firmware and software fixes, updates, and upgrades and developing Internet based software-as-a-service offerings that provide additional value that complements our products.  As the nature and extent of software integration in our products increases or if sales of standalone software applications or services become material, the way we report revenue related to our products and services could be significantly affected.  For example, we are increasingly required to evaluate whether our revenue transactions include multiple deliverables and, as such, whether the revenue generated by each transaction should be recognized upon delivery, over a period of time or apportioned and recognized based on a combination of the two.  Moreover, the software and services revenue recognition rules are complex and dynamic.  If we fail to accurately apply these complex rules and policies, particularly to new and unique products or services offerings, we may incorrectly report revenues in one or more reporting periods, which could materially and adversely impact our results for the affected periods, cause our stock price to decline, and result in securities class actions or other similar litigation.. As we focus on growth opportunities, we are divesting or discontinuing non-strategic product categories and pursuing strategic acquisitions and investments, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. We continue to review our product portfolio and address our non-strategic product categories and products through various options including divestiture and cessation of operations like the sale of our Clarity division in 2017. If we are unable to effect sales on favorable terms or if realignment is more costly or distracting than we expect or has a negative effect on our organization, employees and retention, then our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Discontinuing products with service components may also cause us to continue to incur expenses to maintain services within the product life cycle or to adversely affect our customer and consumer relationships and brand. Divestitures may also involve warranties, indemnification or covenants that could restrict our business or result in litigation, additional expenses or liabilities. In addition, discontinuing product categories, even categories that we consider non-strategic, reduces the size and diversification of our business and causes us to be more dependent on a smaller number of product categories.. As we attempt to grow our business in strategic product categories and emerging market geographies, we will continue to consider growth through acquisitions or investments like the March 2018 announcement of our acquisition of Polycom as well as joint ventures. We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities. Such endeavors and acquisitions will involve significant risks and uncertainties which may include:. • Distraction of management from current operations;. • Greater than expected liabilities and expenses;. • Inadequate return on capital;. • Insufficient sales and marketing expertise requiring costly and time-consuming development and training of internal sales and marketing personnel as well as new and existing distribution channels;. • Certain structures such as joint ventures may limit management or operational control because of the nature of their organizational structures;. • Difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams;. • Dilutive issuances of our equity securities and incurrence of debt;. • Litigation;. • Prohibitive or ineffective intellectual property rights or protections;. • Unknown market expectations regarding pricing, branding and operational and logistical levels of support;. • Uncertain tax, legal and other regulatory compliance obligations and consequences;. • New and complex data collection, maintenance, privacy and security requirements; and. • Other unidentified issues not discovered in our investigations and evaluations.. Moreover, any acquisitions may not be successful in achieving our desired strategic, product, financial or other objectives or expectations, which would also cause our business to suffer. Acquisitions can also lead to large non-cash charges that can have an adverse effect on our results of operations as a result of write-offs for items such as future impairments of intangible assets and goodwill or the recording of stock-based compensation.. Our new service offerings require significant upfront investments and may not be successful.. 20. Table of Contents. We have announced or are exploring new service offerings including SaaS and Soundscaping. These services are complex undertakings different in material respects from our historical hardware design, development and sales model.  For example, while SaaS has become a familiar business model generally, recurring revenue subscription services are new to us and involve unique development, accounting and support.  Moreover, these services remain in the early stages of development and will require significant time, effort and costs to develop before we can determine their likelihood of market success.. We do not expect significant contributions from these services in the near term.  However, if we fail to anticipate the time, effort and cost to develop and maintain new business strategies, we do not timely meet market expectations for commercial availability, our service and support proves unreliable, or we are unable to offer new services at acceptable profit margins, our existing and future business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially, adversely affected.. Our intellectual property rights could be infringed on by others, and we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others resulting in claims or lawsuits.  Even if we prevail, claims and lawsuits are costly and time consuming to pursue or defend and may divert management's time from our business.. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets, and other intellectual property, including our rights to certain domain names.  We rely primarily on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights.  Effective protection and enforcement of our intellectual property rights may not be available in every country in which our products and media properties are distributed to customers.  The process of seeking intellectual property protection can be lengthy, expensive, and uncertain.  Patents may not be issued in response to our applications, and any that may be issued may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged by others.  If we are required to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation, the costs and diversion of management's attention could be substantial.  Furthermore, we may be countersued by an actual or alleged infringer if we attempt to enforce our intellectual property rights, which may materially increase our costs, divert management attention, and result in injunctive or financial damages being awarded against us.  In addition, existing patents, copyright registrations, trademarks, trade secrets and domain names may not provide competitive advantages or be adequate to safeguard and maintain our rights.  If it is not feasible or possible to obtain, enforce, or protect our intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially, adversely affected.. Patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets are owned by third parties that may make claims or commence litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights.  These claims or allegations may relate to intellectual property that we develop or that is incorporated in the materials or components provided by one or more suppliers. As we have grown, intellectual property rights claims against us and our suppliers have increased.  There has also been a general trend of increasing intellectual property infringement claims against corporations that make and sell products.  Our products, technologies and the components and materials contained in our products may be subject to certain third-party claims and, regardless of the merits of the claim, intellectual property claims are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate, settle, or otherwise resolve.  Many of our agreements with our distributors and resellers require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims.  To the extent claims against us or our suppliers are successful, we may have to pay substantial monetary damages or discontinue the manufacture and distribution of products that are found to be in violation of another party's rights.  We also may have to obtain, or renew on less favorable terms, licenses to manufacture and distribute our products or materials or components included in those products, which may significantly increase our operating expenses.  Discharging our indemnity obligations may involve time-consuming and expensive litigation and result in substantial settlements or damages awards, our products being enjoined, and the loss of a distribution channel or retail partner, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. 21. Table of Contents. We must comply with various regulatory requirements, and changes in or new regulatory requirements may adversely impact our gross margins, reduce our ability to generate revenues if we are unable to comply, or decrease demand for our products if the actual or perceived quality of our products are negatively impacted.. Our products must meet existing and new requirements set by regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which we sell them.  For example, certain of our Enterprise products must meet local phone system standards.  Certain of our wireless products must work within existing permitted radio frequency ranges.  Moreover, competition for limited radio frequency bandwidth as a result of an increasing use of wireless products increases the risk of interference or diminished product performance.  For instance, in the U.S. the increase in the number of products operating in the unlicensed 903-928 megahertz radio frequency range using significantly higher power than our wireless products and those of many other users of the unlicensed frequency range may cause our wireless products to experience interference which, if material, may harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales.. As regulations and local laws change, new regulations are enacted, and competition increases, we may need to modify our products to address those changes, increasing the costs to design, manufacture, and sell our products, and thereby decreasing our margins or demand for our products if we attempt to pass along the costs. Regulations may also negatively adversely affect our ability to procure or manufacture raw materials and components necessary for our products.   Compliance with regulatory restrictions and bandwidth limitations may impact the actual or perceived technical quality and capabilities of our products, reducing their marketability.  In addition, if the products we supply to various jurisdictions fail to comply with the applicable local or regional regulations, if our customers or merchants transfer products into unauthorized jurisdictions or our products interfere with the proper operation of other devices, we or consumers purchasing our products may be responsible for the damages that our products cause; thereby causing us to alter the performance of our products, pay substantial monetary damages or penalties, cause harm to our reputation, or cause other adverse consequences.. We are regularly subject to a wide variety of litigation including commercial and employment litigation as well as claims related to alleged defects in the design and use of our products.. We are regularly subject to a wide variety of litigation including claims, lawsuits, and other similar proceedings involving our business practices and products including product liability claims, labor and employment claims, and commercial disputes.  The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as we have grown larger, our business has expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity.. For instance, the sales of our products expose us to the risk of product liability, including hearing loss claims.  Additionally, our mobile headsets are used with mobile telephones and there has been public controversy over whether the radio frequency emissions from mobile phones are harmful to users of mobile phones.  Likewise, research could establish a link between radio frequency emissions and corded or wireless products or we could become a party to litigation claiming such a link.. There is also continuing public controversy over the use of mobile phones by operators of motor vehicles and we may be subject to allegations that use of a mobile phone in combination with a headset contributed to a motor vehicle accident.. In addition, we have been sued by employees regarding our employment practices and business partners regarding contractual rights and obligations.  We have also been sued by a competitor, GN Netcom, Inc., regarding alleged violations of certain laws regulating competition and business practices, which lawsuit is more specifically described in Part II, Item 8, Note 8 (Commitments and Contingencies) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Should GN's appeal be successful, in whole or in part, we could be required to incur additional litigation fees and expenses, be subject to material damages and penalties and management's attention could be diverted, all of which could materially harm our results of operations.. Frequently, the outcome and impact of any claims, lawsuits, and other similar proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Moreover, regardless of the outcome such proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that is subject to judgment. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could harm our business. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices in costly ways. Any of these consequences could materially harm our business.. We maintain product liability insurance, general liability and other forms of insurance in amounts we believe sufficient to cover reasonably anticipated claims, including some of those described above; however, the coverage provided under the policies could be inapplicable or insufficient to cover the full amount of any one or more claims.  Consequently, claims brought against us, whether or not successful, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we lose the benefit of the services of key personnel or if we fail to attract, motivate and retain talented new personnel.. Our success depends to a large extent upon the services of a limited number of executive officers and other key employees.  The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, whether or not anticipated, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled technical, management, sales, and marketing personnel.  Competition for such personnel is intense and the salary, benefits and other costs to employ the right personnel may make it difficult to achieve our financial goals.  Consequently, we may not be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining such personnel, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs.. There are multiple regulatory initiatives in several jurisdictions regarding the removal of certain potential environmentally sensitive materials from our products to comply with Restrictions of the use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (\"RoHS\") and on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (\"WEEE\").  If it is determined that our products do not comply with RoHs or WEEE, or additional new or existing domestic or international environmental laws or regulations are enacted or amended, we may be required to modify some or all of our products or replace one or more components in those products, which, if such modifications are possible, may be time-consuming, expensive to implement or decrease end-user demand, particularly if we increase prices to offset higher costs.  If any of the foregoing were to happen, our ability to sell one or more of our products may be limited or prohibited causing a material negative effect on our financial results.. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use, discharge, and disposal of hazardous substances in the ordinary course of our manufacturing process.  It is possible that future environmental legislation may be enacted or current environmental legislation may be interpreted in any given country in a manner that creates environmental liability with respect to our facilities, operations, or products.  We may also be required to implement new or modify existing policies, processes and procedures as they relate to the use and disposal of our products.  To the extent any new or modified policies, processes or procedures are difficult, time-consuming or costly to implement or we incur claims for environmental matters exceeding reserves or insurance for environmental liability, our operating results could be negatively impacted.. We have $15.5 million of goodwill and other intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet.  If the carrying value of our goodwill were to exceed its implied fair value, or if the carrying value of intangible assets were not recoverable, an impairment loss may be recognized, which would adversely affect our financial results.. As a result of past acquisitions, we have $15.5 million of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2018.  It is impossible at this time to determine if any future impairment charge could occur or, if it does, whether such charge related to these assets would be material.  If such a charge is necessary, it may have a material adverse effect our financial results.. Regulation and unauthorized disclosure of customer, end-user, business partner and employee data could materially harm our business and subject us to significant reputational, legal and operational liabilities.. We are subject to an innumerable and ever-increasing number of global laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of personally information about our customers, end-users of our products, business partners and employees globally. Data protection laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and often impose requirements that are inconsistent with one another. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information internally and by and between us and other parties with whom we have commercial relations. These laws continue to develop in ways we cannot predict and may materially increase our cost of doing business, particularly as we expand the nature and types of products and services we offer including, without limitation, our software-as-a-service and Soundscaping subscription services.. Regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data protection, use of data and data collection is increasing on a global basis. Complying with these varying requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and violations of privacy-related laws can result in significant damages, fines and penalties.  For instance, in Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") was adopted in 2016 and will become fully effective on May 25, 2018.  We have also self-certified to the U.S.-EU Privacy Shield developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Commission to provide U.S. companies with a valid data transfer mechanism under EU law to permit the transfer of personal data from the European Union to the United States.. 23. Table of Contents. The GDPR may affect our ability to reach current and prospective customers, to respond to both enterprise and individual customer requests under the laws (such as individual rights of access, correction, and deletion of their personal information), and to implement our business models cost effectively.   The U.S.-EU Privacy Shield is subject to annual review, has faced challenges in European courts, and may be challenged, suspended or invalidated.. Complying with the GDPR or other laws, regulations, or other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, or information security have caused and will continue to cause us  to incur substantial operational costs and may require us to periodically modify our data handling practices.  Moreover, compliance may impact demand for our offerings and force us to bear the burden of more onerous obligations in our contracts.  Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, could result in substantial fines or other liability, and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.. In addition, compliance with these laws may restrict our ability to provide services our customers, business partners and employees find valuable. A determination that there have been violations of privacy laws relating to our practices could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business and subject us to reputational, legal and operational liabilities.. We post on our websites our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of personal data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other domestic or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Data collection, privacy and security have become the subject of increasing public concern. If customers or end users were to reduce their use of our products and services as a result of these concerns, our business could be harmed. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws.. If we are unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, internal and external misappropriation of data or breaches of security, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation may be damaged, and we may be financially liable for damages.. We rely on networks, information systems, and other technology (\"information systems\"), including the Internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business activities, including our software-as-a-service, human resources, procurement, manufacturing, sales, distribution, invoicing, and collections.  We use information systems to process and report financial information internally and to comply with regulatory reporting.  In addition, we depend on information systems for communications with our suppliers, distributors, and customers.  Consequently, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns or service disruptions during routine operations, such as system upgrades or user errors, as well as network or hardware failures, malicious software, hackers, natural disasters, communications interruptions, or other events (collectively, \"network incidents\"). Our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to network incidents.  While, to date, we have not experienced a network incident resulting in material impairment to our operations, nor have we experienced material intentional or inadvertent disclosure of our data or information or the information or data of our customers or vendors, future network incidents could result in unintended disruption of our operations or disclosure of sensitive information or assets.  Furthermore, we may experience targeted attacks and although we continue to expend resources for personnel, technologies, and training to prepare for and reduce the adverse consequences of such attacks, these investments are expensive and do not guarantee that such attacks will be unsuccessful, either completely or partially.. If our information systems are disrupted or shutdown and we fail to timely and effectively resolve the issues, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits.  Misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, damage our reputation, and have a negative impact on net operating results. In addition, we may suffer loss or misappropriation of our confidential information or assets, or those of our partners, customers, or suppliers which could cause financial damage and damage to our reputation.  We could also be required to expend significant effort and incur financial costs to remedy security breaches or to repair or replace networks and information systems.. Additionally, regardless of the security measures we may employ, our systems and data remain vulnerable to theft, loss and destruction, fraud, unintentional disclosure, errors and similar disruptive activities from current and former employees. Although we have controls in place intended to discourage and detect these types of problems in accordance with industry standards, no system of controls is perfect and issues are likely to arise. If the problems are material, our reputation may be damaged, we may be exposed to litigation, and our sales may be harmed.. We maintain insurance intended to provide coverage for certain claims related to our information systems and practices including some of the risks discussed above.  However, coverage under the policies is not exhaustive and exclusions may apply that limit their applicability or the amount of coverage may be insufficient to cover any one or more claims.  As a result, were we to experience any of the risks above, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted.. 24. Table of Contents. War, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products, which could negatively affect our operations and performance.. War, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, or other business interruptions, whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused or could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a strong negative impact on the global economy, us, and our suppliers or customers.  Our major business operations and those of many of our vendors and their sub-suppliers (collectively, \"Suppliers\") are subject to interruption by disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods, and volcanic eruptions or other natural or manmade disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, public health issues, flu or similar epidemics or pandemics, and other events beyond our control and the control of our Suppliers.  Our corporate headquarters, information technology, manufacturing, certain research and development activities, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults or flood zones.  While we are partially insured for earthquake-related losses or floods, our operating results and financial condition could be materially affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or manmade disaster.. Should any of the events above arise we could be negatively impacted by the need for more stringent employee travel restrictions, limitations in the availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between various regions, delays in production, and disruptions in the operations of our Suppliers.  Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by these events.. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law or a decision by our Board of Directors in the future may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, which could decrease the value of our stock.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders.  The issuance of our preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.  In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could also have the effect of delaying or preventing our acquisition by a third party.  Further, certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value.. All of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation by analysts and in the press, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock, changes in or announcements regarding our forecasts and guidance, our credit ratings, market trends unrelated to our performance, and sales of our common stock by us, our officers or directors or unaffiliated third party investors, particularly considering the concentrated ownership of our common stock, that may limit the ability for investors to acquire or sell meaningful quantities of our stock or cause speculation as to the acquisition or sale of our stock. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business."
