[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The ownership of our securities involves a number of risks and uncertainties.  Potential investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this 2017 Annual Report before deciding whether to invest in our Company.  Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.  The risks described below are not the only ones facing us.  Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Risk Related to the Proposed Separation of Agricultural Solutions. The Proposed Separation of our Agricultural Solutions business is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions and involves significant time of our management and expenses, which could disrupt or adversely affect our business.. The Proposed Separation of our Agricultural Solutions and Performance Solutions businesses is expected to be completed in 2018.  However, we could be delayed or prevented from completing the Proposed Separation, or complete it on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected, for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to:. • market conditions and volatility;. • inability or delays in obtaining any legal or regulatory approvals;. • inability or difficulty in refinancing our Credit Facilities and other material indebtedness, including our Prior Senior Notes;. • challenges in establishing infrastructure or processes; and. • the possibility of more attractive strategic options arising in the future.. In addition, the terms of the 5.875% USD Notes Indenture require that certain conditions, including both secured and total leverage ratio tests, be met in order to complete the designation of the subsidiaries that comprise the Agricultural Solutions business as unrestricted subsidiaries under that indenture.  In order to comply with these conditions, additional equity contributions, refinancing of both our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and our Prior Senior Notes and certain other related financings may be required.  There can be no assurance that these financing or refinancings will occur or that the conditions set forth in the 5.875% USD Notes Indenture relating to the designation of our Agricultural Solutions subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries will be satisfied.. Whether or not we complete the Proposed Separation, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we may be subject to certain risks and consequences as a result of pursuing the Proposed Separation, including the following:. • execution of the Proposed Separation requires and will continue to require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our businesses and the execution of other initiatives that may have been beneficial to us;. • our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with us and Agricultural Solutions pending the completion of the Proposed Separation;. • some of our suppliers or customers may delay or defer decisions or may end their relationships with us or our Agricultural Solutions business; and. • we expect to incur incremental costs and expenses relating to the Proposed Separation, such as legal, accounting, tax and other professional fees.. We may also experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we fail to complete the Proposed Separation.  Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or price of our common stock.. Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.. Our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies.  In connection with the Proposed Separation, as we are designing and implementing the transaction structure and related financings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings.  Any actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may impact our reputation, and adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets.. 15. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the Proposed Separation.. The Proposed Separation may not provide the results on the scope or on the scale we anticipate, and we may not realize all, or any, of the intended benefits.  In addition, we will incur one-time costs and ongoing costs in connection with, or as a result of, the Proposed Separation, including costs of operating as separate companies that the two businesses will no longer be able to share.. Those costs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize.  If we do not realize the intended benefits or if our costs exceed our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and trading price may be adversely impacted.. If the Proposed Separation is completed, the trading price of our shares of common stock may decline or experience greater volatility.. If the Proposed Separation is completed, the trading price of our shares of common stock immediately following the Proposed Separation may decline or experience greater volatility as our business profile and market capitalization may no longer match some of our stockholders' investment strategies in diversified companies, which could cause these investors to sell their shares of Platform's common stock and/or to not invest in the Agricultural Solutions business as a separate public company.  Excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of Platform's common stock and, if publicly listed, the common stock of Agricultural Solutions, to decrease following the completion of the Proposed Separation.  Similarly, following the Proposed Separation, our shares of common stock and those of the Agricultural Solutions business may collectively trade at a value less than the price at which our shares of common stock might have traded had the Proposed Separation not occurred as a result of the future performance of either us or the Agricultural Solutions business as separate companies, as well as the future stockholder base, market and trading price for our respective shares.. We may incur additional costs in connection with the Proposed Separation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. To the extent it becomes a public company, we may incur incremental costs in assisting the Agricultural Solutions business comply with its public reporting requirements and financial presentations as a separate business from Platform following the Proposed Separation.  Fulfilling our public reporting requirements and creating additional costs for the Company in connection with the Agricultural Solutions business' reporting requirements would likely be time-consuming and expensive.  We cannot quantify or predict the increased costs to us as a result of the Proposed Separation.. In addition, other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from the Agricultural Solutions business following the Proposed Separation.. We may be subject to third-party claims in the event that Agricultural Solutions is not successful as a separate entity.. Following the Proposed Separation, we cannot guarantee that Agricultural Solutions will be successful as a separate entity. In the event that Agricultural Solutions is not successful, it is possible that third parties could assert a variety of claims against us. Depending on their nature and number, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We could be exposed to claims from Agricultural Solutions or third parties under our agreements with Agricultural Solutions or otherwise.. In connection with the Proposed Separation, we may enter into agreements with Agricultural Solutions including, among others, a separation agreement, transition services agreement and registration rights agreement. Our agreements with Agricultural Solutions may not reflect terms that would have resulted from negotiations between unaffiliated parties and, in certain instances, may relate to the continuation of certain business arrangements among us and Agricultural Solutions in existence prior to the Proposed Separation. Such provisions may include, among other things, indemnification rights and obligations, the allocations of liabilities, payment obligations and other obligations between us and Agricultural Solutions. There can be no assurance that any remedies available under these arrangements will be sufficient to us in the event of a dispute or non-performance.. In addition, there can be no assurance that the attention we must pay, and resources we must devote, to our obligations under one or more of these agreements, or the results of any failure to perform those obligations, or claim by Agricultural Solutions that we have failed to perform those obligations, will not have a material impact on our own business performance. Under the separation agreement, Agricultural Solutions will agree to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for such liabilities and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Agricultural Solutions will be sufficient to. 16. fully protect us from such liabilities. The transition services agreement will provide for the performance by us of certain services for Agricultural Solutions, through and following the Proposed Separation. We will rely on Agricultural Solutions to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these and all other agreements entered into in connection with the Proposed Separation. Agricultural Solutions' failure to satisfy such obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. The tax treatment of the Proposed Separation remains uncertain.. The tax treatment of the Proposed Separation will depend on several factors, including the settlement of inter-company balances, restructuring of outstanding debt, and the value of the Agricultural Solutions business at the time of the Proposed Separation for U.S. federal income tax and financial statement purposes.  Preliminary tax analysis indicates that it is likely that the Proposed Separation will be a taxable event.  However, pending resolution of these factors, conclusion on the tax treatment of the Proposed Separation, including whether this transaction will result in any tax liabilities, remains uncertain.  Further, an analysis of the impact of the recently passed TCJA as it relates to the Proposed Separation is ongoing.  As described below, the TCJA significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and tax consequences for our business and contemplated transactions also remain uncertain.. Risks Relating to our Business. Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy.. Part of our key strategy is to grow through acquisitions.  We have completed several acquisitions in the past and routinely review additional opportunities.  This strategy presents certain risks including, without limitation, the potential for:. • increasing debt levels to fund sizable acquisitions, resulting in additional liabilities, constraints and requirements on our business and financial performance;. • the acquired businesses failing to provide, or delays in realizing, the benefits originally anticipated by management;. • potential disruption of our businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, inconsistencies or deficiencies in standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance and health and safety compliance), information technology systems, procedures and policies;. • difficulties managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of acquisitions;. • difficulties in integrating the operations and systems of the acquired businesses and in realizing operating synergies by identifying and eliminating redundant operations and assets;. • difficulties in assimilating and retaining key employees, customers, suppliers and other partners of the acquired companies;. • challenges related to the lack of experience in operating in the geographical or product markets of the acquired business;. • management's attention being diverted to the integration of the acquired businesses or acceptance of the acquired technology;. • rising interest rates on debt needed or dilution resulting from equity issuances to provide cash to fund the purchase price of acquisitions; and. • unanticipated contract or regulatory issues and the assumption of, and exposure to, unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired businesses.. If an acquisition is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations or does not result in the benefits we expect, as a result of the factors mentioned above or otherwise, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, failure to integrate successfully or realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from our acquisitions, including the Acquisitions, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations.  Accordingly, in connection with any acquisition, there can be no assurance as to whether or when any benefits or cost synergies we hope to achieve will occur, or the extent to which they actually will be achieved.  Finally, future business acquisitions or other material strategic initiatives, including, without limitation, the Proposed Separation, could compound the difficulty in making comparisons between prior, current and future periods because these events, which are not made in ordinary course of business, also affect our gross profit margins and our overall operating results.. 17. Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business and fulfill our obligations under our outstanding debt.. At December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was approximately $5.48 billion.  Such substantial indebtedness could have the following material consequences:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • increase the amount of our interest expense, because our borrowings include instruments with variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, would result in higher interest expense;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • limit our ability to make strategic acquisitions, introduce new technologies or exploit business opportunities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and. • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds.. In addition, our Credit Facilities and other agreements governing our outstanding debt  contain covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional debt, grant liens, pay cash dividends, enter new lines of business, repurchase our shares of common stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions.  These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise take actions that we believe are in the best interest of our business.  In addition, the terms of our Credit Facilities and these agreements allow us to issue and incur additional debt but only upon satisfaction of certain conditions.  We anticipate that any future acquisitions we pursue as part of our growth strategy may be financed through a combination of cash on hand, operating cash flow, availability under our Credit Facilities and new capital markets offerings.  If new debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks described above could increase.. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations and to fund any planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs also depends in part upon the future financial and operating performance of our subsidiaries and upon our ability to renew or refinance borrowings.  Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. If we are unable to make payments or refinance our debt, obtain waivers or new financing, or if holders of indebtedness elect to declare all borrowed funds due and/or to terminate their commitments for future funding, those holders could exercise their rights, including assuming control over our deposit accounts and/or commencing foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. A change in our estimates and underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in an impairment charge, which could materially affect our results of operations.. In accordance with GAAP, we account for our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting and, historically, the Acquisitions have resulted in significant goodwill and other intangible assets being recognized in our Consolidated Financial Statements.  We are required under GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are also required to conduct impairment tests on goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets annually or more frequently, if circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or that an other-than-temporary impairment exists.  Other than the goodwill impairments we recorded in the Agro Business reporting unit within our Agricultural Solutions segment in 2017 and the Offshore Solutions reporting unit within our Performance Solutions segment in 2016, there were no impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets in 2017, 2016 or 2015.  In 2017, however, our Graphics Solutions and Offshore Solutions reporting units within our Performance Solutions segment, as well as other indefinite-lived intangible assets, each had fair values that were not substantially in excess of their respective carrying values.  Any changes in estimates or underlying assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could adversely affect our results of operations.  Factors that could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to significant negative economic or industry trends or competitive operating conditions; significant macroeconomic conditions that may result in a future increase in the weighted-average cost of capital used to estimate fair value; and significant changes in the nature and timing of decisions regarding assets or markets that do not perform consistently with our expectations, including factors we use to estimate future levels of sales, Adjusted EBITDA or cash flows.  Future impairment charges, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the periods recognized.. 18. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect our operating results and may significantly affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.. We have significant operations outside the United States, the financial results of which are maintained in the local currency and then translated in U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated and will likely continue to do so in the future.  Changes in exchange rates between these local currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded levels of sales, profitability, assets or liabilities. In addition, translated U.S. dollar amounts reflected in our financial statements may obscure underlying financial trends that would be apparent in financial statements prepared on a constant currency basis or affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.  In addition, as a result of our international operations, our business and financing arrangements are conducted in a variety of currencies resulting in transactional currency risk.  Although we may employ at times a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such risk management strategies will be effective, and our financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely impacted.. In addition, the June 2016 national referendum in the United Kingdom, commonly referred to as \"Brexit,\" whereby a majority of voters elected to withdraw the United Kingdom from the E.U. caused further volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies.  The strengthening of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and expose us to gains and losses on non-U.S. currency transactions. Further, a potential devaluation of the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could impair their purchasing power and cause them to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment.  This volatility in foreign currencies is expected to continue as the United Kingdom negotiates and executes its exit from the E.U. but it is uncertain over what time period this will occur. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The failure to attract and retain key personnel, including our executive officers, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business involves complex operations and therefore demands a leadership team and employee workforce that is knowledgeable and expert in many areas necessary for our operations.  The failure to attract and retain key personnel, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse material impact on our result of operations.  In addition, we are highly dependent on the experience and track records of our management, particularly Martin E. Franklin and Rakesh Sachdev, in successfully acquiring and managing businesses.  If one or more of our executive officers were to cease to be employed by us, or if we were unable to replace them in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, as a company focused on manufacturing and highly technical customer service, we rely on our ability to attract and retain skilled employees, including our specialized research and development, and sales and service personnel, in order to maintain our efficient production processes, drive innovation in our product offerings and maintain our deep customer relationships.  The departure of a significant number of our highly skilled employees, or of one or more employees who hold key management positions, could have an adverse impact on our operations, including customers choosing to follow an employee or manager to one of our competitors.. If we fail to establish and maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely and reliable manner, which could harm our business and impact the value of our securities.. We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any material changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls.. As discussed in this 2017 Annual Report in Part II, Item 9A, we have identified material weaknesses in the past and, as of December 31, 2017, a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the accounting for income taxes had not been fully remediated.  As a result, we have concluded, based on management's assessment, that our internal control and procedures were ineffective at December 31, 2017 as it relates to the accounting for income taxes.  Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.  If we cannot provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed.  Likewise, if our financial statements are not filed on a timely basis as required by the SEC and the NYSE, we could face severe consequences from those authorities.  Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could affect our stock price.. 19. Even effective internal controls have inherent limitations including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud.  Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or a deterioration in the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures.. Finally, our business strategy contemplates the acquisition of businesses and the operation of subsidiaries whose financial results are consolidated into our financial statements and operating reporting. Effective internal control over financial reporting must be established and maintained in connection with these acquisitions, if any, in order for us to produce accurate and timely financial reports.  Failure to do so could result in our inability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis, and possibly lead to other deficiencies, which would also likely have a negative impact on our stock price.. We have identified material weaknesses in the past and we have a remaining material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, could affect the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting and result in misstatements in our financial statements.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.  As previously reported, we have identified material weaknesses in the past and in connection with its evaluation related to this 2017 Annual Report, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as it relates to the accounting for incomes taxes was ineffective at December 31, 2017.. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. As previously reported and discussed in this 2017 Annual Report in Part II, Item 9A, we have taken, and continue to take, numerous steps to remediate this material weakness and improve our internal controls over financial reporting.  However, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken to date, and are continuing to take, will be sufficient to remediate this material weakness or avoid potential future material weaknesses.  If our remedial measures are insufficient to address this material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, or if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner, our financial statements for one or more periods may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate previously issued financial statements for past periods, which may have a material adverse effect on our stock price and our ability to access capital and lending markets.. Our substantial international operations subject us to risks not faced by domestic competitors.. Our business involves significant international operations which, accordingly, subject us to risks related to the different legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many foreign jurisdictions.  Risks inherent to our international operations include the following:. • fluctuations in currency values and foreign currency exchange rates;. • increased credit risk and different financial conditions, which may necessitate longer payment cycles of accounts receivable or result in increased bad debt write-offs (including due to bankruptcy) or additions to reserves;. • additional withholding taxes or other taxes on foreign income, tariffs, duties, export controls, import restrictions or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls;. • foreign exchange controls or other currency restrictions and limitation on the movement of funds, including the prohibition of the repatriation of funds into the United States, which may result in adverse tax consequences and tax inefficiencies;. • export licenses may be difficult to obtain, and the transportation of our products may be delayed or interrupted;. • general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including devaluation or fluctuations in the value of currencies, gross domestic product, interest rates, market demand, labor costs and other factors beyond our control;. • unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or foreign regulatory requirements, including in laws or regulatory requirements pertaining to employee benefits, the environment and health and safety, such as China's latest environmental crackdown;. • protectionist policies, which may restrict or impair the manufacturing, sales or import and export of our products;. • new restrictions on access to markets, such as adverse trade policies or trade barriers;. 20. • a lack of or inadequate infrastructure;. • political crises;. • uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract rights and reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;. • expropriation of assets or forced relocations of operations;. • inflation and hyperinflationary economic conditions and adverse economic effects resulting from governmental attempts to control inflation, such as imposition of wage and price controls and higher interest rates;. • business cultures accepting of various levels of corruption;. • the requirement to comply with a wide variety of foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to international operations, including, without limitation, economic sanctions regulations, labor laws, import and export regulations, anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws;. • challenges in maintaining an effective internal control environment with operations in multiple international locations, including language and cultural differences, varying levels of GAAP expertise and internal control over financial reporting in international locations and multiple financial information systems;. • difficulties managing and administering an internationally dispersed business, as the management of our personnel across many countries can present legal, logistical and managerial challenges; and. • labor disruptions, civil unrest, significant social, political or economic instability, wars or other armed conflict or acts of terrorism.. Any of these risks could impact our ability to manufacture, source, sell or export our products or repatriate profits.  We could also experience a loss of sales and profitability from our international operations, and/or a substantial impairment or loss of assets, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition, we have been taking steps to increase our presence in new markets, including emerging markets and less developed countries.  However, there is no guarantee that our efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed.  In these markets, we are subject to a variety of risks in addition to those described above, including global financial instability, consumers with limited or fluctuating discretionary spending, unstable governments and privatization, changes in customs or tax regimes or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency.  Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Furthermore, some of our international operations are conducted in parts of the world that experience corruption to some degree. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance (including with respect to the FCPA and the Bribery Act as further described below), our employees, suppliers, distributors and wholesalers could take actions in contravention of our policies and procedures that violate applicable anti-corruption laws or regulations. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, or our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the E.U. may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. We are a multinational company with worldwide operations, including significant business operations in Europe.  Subsequent to Brexit, in February 2017, the British Parliament voted in favor of allowing the British government to begin negotiating the terms of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the E.U. and in March 2017, the British government officially triggered the process to formally initiate negotiations for the terms of separation from the E. U. by April 2019.  In June 2017, the British government began negotiations to leave the E. U.  This will be either accompanied or followed by additional negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom concerning the future relations between the parties, including the terms of trade between the parties.  While the ultimate effect of Brexit are difficult to predict, the withdrawal process has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the E.U., and has given rise to calls for certain regions within the United Kingdom to preserve their place in the E.U. by separating from the United Kingdom as well as for the governments of other E.U. member states to consider withdrawal.. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets.  Asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility.  Lack of clarity about future United Kingdom laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal, including. 21. financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws and employment laws, could decrease foreign direct investment in the United Kingdom, increase costs, depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital.  If the United Kingdom and the E.U. are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other E.U. member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the United Kingdom and other E.U. member states, or among the European economic area overall, could be diminished or eliminated. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have made investments in, and are expanding our business into, emerging markets and less-developed countries, which exposes us to certain additional risks.. We have been taking steps to increase our presence in emerging markets and less developed countries. However, there is no guarantee that our efforts to expand sales in these markets will succeed. In these markets, we are subject to a variety of additional risks including global financial instability, consumers with limited or fluctuating discretionary spending on which the end users of our products depend, weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization, changes in customs or tax regimes, or other government actions affecting the flow of goods and currency.  Accordingly, changes in any of those areas may have significant negative impacts on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  Other risks inherent in operations in emerging markets include, for example, unpredictable changes in relative prices and rates of economic growth; currency exchange fluctuations; unpredictable tax policies and trade regulations; restrictions on repatriation of cash and other exchange controls; less developed and less reliable judicial and administrative systems, which can render contractual rights unenforceable; the imposition of trade sanctions, resulting in lost access to customers and suppliers in the targeted countries; increased prevalence of bribery and other forms of corruption, and the costs associated with implementing and maintaining effective compliance programs; labor strikes; unsettled political, social, or economic conditions; public health issues or epidemics; war, terrorist activities, or other armed conflict; any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Adverse weather conditions, including those resulting from climate change and natural disasters, as well as seasonality, may negatively impact the operations and operating results of our Agricultural Solutions business.. Sales volumes for agrochemical products are subject to the sector's dependency on weather and disease and pest infestation conditions.  Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters such as drought and floods in a particular region, storms, hurricanes, tsunamis, hail, tornadoes, freezing conditions or extreme heat could have a material adverse effect on our Agricultural Solutions business.  The agricultural industry, including our Agricultural Solutions business, may also be adversely affected by global climate change and its impact on weather conditions such as changes in precipitation patterns and the increased frequency of extreme weather events.. In addition, unfavorable weather conditions and natural disasters can reduce acreage planted, lead to modified crop selection by growers, and affect the incidence (or timing) of certain weeds, crop diseases or pest infestations, each of which may reduce or otherwise alter demand for our products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Weather conditions and natural disasters also affect decisions of our distributors, direct customers, and end-users about the types and amounts of products to purchase and the timing of use of such products. Delays by growers in planting or harvesting can result in deferral of orders to a future quarter, or decisions to forgo orders altogether in a particular growing season, either of which would negatively affect our sales. Climatic and weather conditions and other variables that are difficult to forecast can lead to changes in planting and growing seasons with the result that sales of our products may vary substantially from year to year and quarter to quarter and from our internal forecasts.. In addition, our agrochemical operations are seasonal, with a greater portion of total net revenue and Adjusted EBITDA occurring in the second and fourth quarters.  As a result, any factors that would negatively affect our second and fourth quarter results in any year, including severe weather conditions and natural disasters, could affect decisions by our customers and end-users about the types and amounts of agrochemicals and BioSolutions products to purchase and the timing of use of such products, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the results of operations, financial condition and results of operations of our Agricultural Solutions business for the entire year.. Volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits.. We use a variety of specialty and commodity chemicals in our formulation processes, and such formulation operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials on a timely basis.  We typically purchase our major raw materials on a contract or as needed basis from outside sources.  The availability and prices of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, the financial stability of our suppliers, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, new laws or regulations (for example, increasingly restrictive environmental regulations applicable to manufacturers. 22. in China), protectionist nationalistic trade policies and practices, changes in exchange rates and worldwide price levels (especially for raw materials derived from petrochemical based and element based feedstocks).  In some cases, we are limited in our ability to purchase certain raw materials from other suppliers by our supply agreements which contain certain minimum purchase requirements.. Similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events.  As we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along those costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely impacted.  Furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have an adverse long-term impact on our results of operations.. Our reliance on a limited base of key customers, contract manufacturers, suppliers or independent distributors could adversely affect our overall sales and profitability.. In our Performance Solutions segment, we have key customers, the loss of which may impair our results of operations for the affected earnings periods.  The principal products purchased by such customers are surface finishing chemicals and solid sheet printing elements.  In addition, in our Agricultural Solutions segment, we rely on unaffiliated contract manufacturers, both domestically and internationally, to produce certain products or key components of products.  There is limited available manufacturing capacity that meets our quality standards and regulatory requirements.  If we are unable to arrange for sufficient production capacity among our contract manufacturers or if our contract manufacturers encounter production, quality, financial, or other difficulties (including labor or geopolitical disturbances), we may encounter difficulty in meeting customer demands as the manufacture of our products may not be easily transferable to other sites.  In addition, many of our products are developed or distributed through strategic partnerships.  Some of our existing formulated products and others currently under development include combinations of proprietary AIs or combinations of AIs with proprietary safeners or adjuvants.  Some of these proprietary AIs, safeners, and adjuvants are owned by third-parties, and the development and commercialization of such products are carried out through contractual strategic arrangements with such third-parties.  We may also be dependent on a limited number of key suppliers for AIs.  In addition, we generally do not have long-term supply contracts with AI suppliers for our regional portfolio.  If our sources of AI supplies are terminated or affected by adverse prices or other concerns, we may not be able to identify alternate sources of AI supplies to sustain our sales volumes on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. We also rely on independent distributors within each segment to distribute our products and to assist us with the marketing and sale of certain of our products.  There can be no assurance that our distributors will focus adequate resources on selling our products to end users, or will be successful in selling our products, which could materially adversely affect our business.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property rights and the rights to our proprietary processes, methods, compounds and other technology.  Failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable technologies and our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in the loss of one or more competitive advances and decreased sales.  In addition, the laws of other countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  In addition, a vigorous prosecution of an infringement claim is not always cost effective or practical.. In some cases, we rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position.  While we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third-parties to protect our intellectual property, our confidentiality agreements could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for or adequate remedies to protect our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of information.. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws afford us only limited protection. Others may attempt to copy or re-engineer aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.  Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our products or trade secrets, or deter others from developing similar products.  Further, monitoring the unauthorized use of our products and other proprietary rights is difficult.  Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others.  Litigation of this type could also result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could significantly harm our results of operations and reputation.. 23. We may experience claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling our products.. We seek to improve our business processes and develop new products and applications.  Many of our competitors have a substantial amount of intellectual property that we must continually monitor to avoid infringement.  We may experience claims that our processes and products infringe issued patents (whether present or future) or other intellectual property rights belonging to others.  From time to time, we oppose patent applications that we consider overbroad or otherwise invalid in order to maintain the ability to operate freely in our various business lines without the risk of being sued for patent infringement.  If, however, patents are subsequently issued on any such applications by other parties, or if patents belonging to others already exist that cover our products, processes or technologies, we could experience claims of infringement or have to take other remedial or curative actions to continue our production and sales activities with respect to one or more products.  Further, intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business.. In addition, many of our products directly or indirectly are offered as presenting critical performance attributes, which expose us to a greater risk of product liability claims.  If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, that customer may in turn attempt to seek damage compensation from us.  A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us.  A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  While we endeavor to protect ourselves from such claims and exposures in our contractual negotiations (including through indemnification provisions), we cannot assure you that our efforts in this regard will ultimately protect us from any such claims.. If we experience a significant disruption in our information technology systems or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business operations could be adversely affected.. We depend on information technology systems throughout the Company to control our manufacturing processes, process orders, manage inventory, process and bill shipments to and collect cash from our customers, respond to customer inquiries, contribute to our overall internal control processes, maintain records of our property, plant and equipment and record and pay amounts due to vendors and other creditors.  We are or will be implementing new enterprise resource planning software for our Agricultural Solutions segment and other software applications to manage certain business operations going forward.  As we upgrade or change systems, we may suffer interruptions in service, loss of data or reduced functionality and other problems could arise that we have not foreseen.  Such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders and otherwise run our business in a timely manner.  In addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins.  As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our business operations and internal control processes could also be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately.  The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers.  The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer.. Changes in data privacy and data protection laws and regulations, or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could adversely impact our business.. Our business is subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally designed to protect the privacy of clients, customers, employees and other third parties. The interpretation and application of such laws and regulations is uncertain and evolving and it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. For example, the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which will take effect in May 2018, creates a range of new compliance obligations and increases financial penalties for non-compliance and extends the scope of the E.U. data protection law to all companies processing data of E.U. residents, regardless of the company's location. Complying with the GDPR and other privacy and data protection laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.  In addition, if we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions.. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive information and confidential and personal data and to comply with and implement data security measures, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches and other data loss, including cyber-attacks. In addition, it is not possible to predict the impact on our business of the future loss, alteration or misappropriation of information in our possession related to us, our employees, former employees, customers or suppliers.  Depending on their nature and scope, these threats could potentially lead to improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of proprietary or. 24. key data or product non-compliance.  Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential information about the Company, our employees, former employees, customers or suppliers could result in legal claims or proceedings, damage to or inaccessibility of critical systems, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. Our net sales and gross profit have varied depending on our product, customer and geographic mix for any given period, which makes it difficult to forecast future operating results.. Our net sales and gross profit vary among our products, customers and markets, and therefore may be different in future periods from historic or current periods.  Overall gross profit margins in any given period are dependent in large part on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net sales.  Market trends, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory conditions, severe or adverse weather and other factors may also result in reductions in revenue or pressure on the gross profit margins of certain segments in a given period.. The varying nature of our product, customer and geographic mix between periods, including the historically seasonable nature of our agrochemical operations, has materially impacted our net sales and gross profit between periods during certain recessionary times and may lead to difficulties in measuring the potential impact of market, regulatory and other factors on our business.  As a result, we may be challenged in our ability to forecast our future operating results.. Global economic conditions may adversely affect our net sales, gross profit and financial condition and result in delays or reductions in spending, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our products are sold in industries that are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including agricultural, animal health, electronics, graphics, plating, and offshore oil and gas production and drilling industries.  Accordingly, our net sales, gross profit and financial condition depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for our products and services in the markets in which we compete.  In particular, weak economic conditions in parts of China and South America may have an adverse effect on our results.  A delay or a reduction in customer spending due to an economic downturn would reduce demand for our products and services and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Industry and consumer trends may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We believe that the specialty chemical industry in general, and the printing industry in particular, are cyclical and subject to constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product lifecycles, raw material price fluctuations and changes in product supply and demand.  The specialty chemical industry is currently being affected by globalization and a shift in customers' businesses while the printing industry is currently shrinking.  The trends and characteristics in these industries may cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our specialty chemicals are used for a broad range of applications by our customers.  Changes, including technological changes, in our customers' products or processes may make our specialty chemicals unnecessary, which would reduce the demand for those chemicals.  We have had, and may continue to have, customers that find alternative materials or processes and therefore no longer require our products, which had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients as concerns continue to mount about food safety and genetically modified organisms or other product ingredients issues.. The high level of competition in our industries may lead to pricing pressure, reduced margins, or the inability of our products to achieve market acceptance.. We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements.  We also encounter competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business.  Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, greater brand recognition, and a larger base of customers than we do.  As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research and development, manufacturing, formulation, promotion, or sale of their products, receive greater resources and support from independent distributors, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, more readily take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, and withstand adverse changes in conditions within the relevant industry, the prices of raw materials and energy or general economic conditions, or changes in the competitive environment, which. 25. could result in larger competitors.. We expect our competitors to continue to develop and introduce new products and to enhance their existing products, which may cause a decline in market acceptance of our products.  Our competitors may also improve their processes or expand their manufacturing or formulation capacity, which could make it more difficult or expensive for us to compete successfully.  In addition, our competitors could enter into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers, which could limit our ability to acquire necessary raw materials or to generate sales and/or significantly increase costs.  At the same time, an increasing number of our products are coming off patent and are thus available to generic manufacturers to produce.  As a result, we anticipate that we will continue to face new and different competitive challenges.. Our operating results are also influenced in part by our ability to introduce new products and services that offer distinct value to our customers, particularly prior to our competitors' ability to introduce equivalent products.  We seek to provide tailored products for our customers' often unique problems, which require an ongoing level of innovation.  Even where we devote significant human and financial resources to develop new technologically advanced products and services, we may not be successful in these efforts.  If we are not able to continue technological innovation and successful commercial introduction of new products, our customers may turn to other producers to meet their requirements.  Furthermore, if our competitors are able to introduce equivalent products before we are able to bring new products to market, we may lose market shares to our competitors.  Any of these factors may impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to adapt to changes in market needs, our future ability to penetrate markets and sustain our market position could be adversely affected.. Chemical manufacturing is inherently hazardous and may result in accidents, which may disrupt our operations or expose us to significant losses or liabilities.. The hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes are inherent in our operations.. Our research and development, manufacturing, formulating and packaging activities involve the use of hazardous materials and the generation of hazardous waste.  We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination, discharge or injury resulting from those materials.  Also, our suppliers or contract manufacturers may use and/or generate hazardous materials in connection with producing our products.  We may be required to indemnify our suppliers, contract manufacturers or waste disposal contractors against damages and other liabilities arising out of the production, handling or storage of our products or raw materials or the disposal of related wastes.  Potential risks include explosions and fires, chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, and pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures.  Those hazards may result in personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions, cleanup costs, and claims by governmental entities or third-parties.  We are dependent on the continued operation of our production facilities (including third-party manufacturing on a tolling basis), and the loss or shutdown of operations over an extended period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, or results of operations.. Our operations currently use, and have historically used, hazardous materials and generate, and have historically generated, quantities of hazardous waste.  For example, we are subject to regulatory oversight and investigation, remediation, and monitoring obligations at its current and former Superfund sites, as well as third-party disposal sites, under federal laws and their state and local analogues, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), as well as analogous foreign laws. In particular, we are subject to ongoing obligations at active sites in the United States and are conducting closure activities pursuant to the RCRA at several sites in the United States.  The costs and liabilities associated with these issues may be substantial and may materially impact the financial health of our company.. We may incur material costs relating to environmental and health and safety requirements or liabilities, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning the environment and the generation, use, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials.  Our operations bear the risk of violations of those laws and sanctions for violations such as clean-up and removal costs, long-term monitoring and maintenance costs, costs of waste disposal, fines for natural resource damage, and payments for property damage and personal injury.  Additionally, those requirements, and enforcement of those requirements, may become more stringent in the future.  The ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements could be material.  We have incurred, are incurring and will in the future incur, costs and capital expenditures in complying with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.. 26. Although it is our policy to comply with such laws and regulations, it is possible that we have not been or may not be at all times in material compliance with all of those requirements.. At any given time, we may be involved in claims, litigation, administrative proceedings, settlements and investigations of various types in a number of jurisdictions involving potential environmental liabilities.  In particular, we are currently involved in various investigations due to historic operations.  Liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be joint and several and imposed retroactively, regardless of fault or the legality of the activities that gave rise to the contamination.  Some of our formulating and manufacturing facilities have an extended history of chemical formulating and manufacturing operations or other industrial activities, and contaminants have been detected at some of our sites and offsite disposal locations.  Ultimate environmental costs are difficult to predict and may vary from current estimates and liabilities.  The discovery of additional contaminants, the inability or failure of other liable parties to satisfy their obligations, the imposition of additional cleanup obligations, or the commencement of related third-party claims could result in significant additional costs.. Our offshore oil industry products are subject to the hazards inherent in the offshore oil production and drilling industry, and we may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards.. We produce water-based hydraulic control fluids for major oil companies and drilling contractors to be used for potentially hazardous offshore deep water production and drilling applications.  Offshore deep water oil production and drilling are subject to hazards that include blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, capsizing, sinking and damage or loss to pipeline, subsea or other facilities from severe weather conditions.  Those hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations.  A catastrophic occurrence at a location where our products are used may expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, product liability or commercial claims.  To the extent available, we maintain insurance coverage that we believe is customary in our industry.  Such insurance does not, however, provide coverage for all liabilities, and we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover claims that may arise or that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable.  The occurrence of a significant offshore deep water oil production or drilling event that results in liability to us that is not fully insured could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, or results of operations.. Certain of our products may be subject to various export control regulations and exports may require a license from the U.S. Department of State or the U.S. Department of Commerce.. Companies must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products, services, and technology.  In the United States, these laws include, among others, the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), administered by the U.S. Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls.  Some of our products or technology may have military or strategic applications governed by the ITAR or represent so-called \"dual use\" items governed by the EAR.  As a result, these products may require government licenses to be exported to certain jurisdictions or persons. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal penalties, fines, investigations, adverse publicity and restrictions on our ability to export our products, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The recently passed comprehensive U.S. tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the TCJA, was signed into law.  The TCJA significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The TCJA, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits.  We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the TCJA is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.   The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.  This 2017 Annual Report does not discuss the manner in which the TCJA might affect purchasers of our common stock.  We urge stockholders and potential investors of our common stock to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to the TCJA and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. 27. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate may have a negative effect on our results of operations.. Our products are manufactured and formulated, distributed or sold in more than 100 countries and jurisdictions.  As a result, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of various federal, state and local governments in the United States, as well as outside of the United States, and to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate.  We record tax expense based on our estimates of future payments, which includes reserves for uncertain tax provisions in multiple tax jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, income taxes payable, and net deferred tax position.  There are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  As a result, we expect that throughout the year there could be ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as events occur and exposures are evaluated.  Future changes in our mix of business activities, or in tax laws or their application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, intra-group dividends, or a restriction in tax relief allowed on interest (including both the deductibility of interest payments, and certain reductions or exemptions from withholding taxes), could increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Further, our effective tax rate in a given financial period may be materially impacted by changes to existing accounting rules and regulations.  Tax legislation enacted in the future, in the United States or in foreign countries and jurisdictions, could also negatively impact our current or future tax structure and effective tax rates.  For example, the TCJA, recently passed in the United States as described above, or the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive, which is required to be implemented by all E.U. member states by January 1, 2019, may have possible implications for, and affect the tax treatment of, the Company.. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and foreign tax authorities in the countries and jurisdiction in which we operate and we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from that which is reflected in our historical financial statements.  An audit or litigation can result in significant additional income taxes payable in the jurisdictions in which we operate which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  Certain of our subsidiaries, primarily in our Agricultural Solutions segment, have historically received tax assessments for significant amounts from the tax authorities of the countries in which they operate, especially in Brazil.  We are currently contesting tax assessments in several administrative and legal proceedings, and our challenges are at various stages.  If determined adversely, these proceedings, or any additional material tax assessments that we may contest in the future, can result in significant income taxes payable in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  In addition, in some jurisdictions, challenges to tax assessments require the posting of a bond or security for the contested amount, which may reduce our flexibility in operating our agrochemicals business.. Failure to comply with the FCPA and other similar anti-corruption laws could subject us to penalties and damage our reputation.. The global nature of our business, the significance of our international revenue and our presence in emerging markets create various domestic and local regulatory challenges and subject us to risks associated with our international operations. The FCPA, the Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies, directors, officers, employees, and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage. Under many of these laws, companies may also be held liable for actions taken by third-parties acting on their behalf, such as strategic or local partners or representatives. Certain anti-corruption laws, including the Bribery Act, also prohibit commercial bribery and the receipt of bribes, while others, such as the FCPA, require companies to maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal controls. Certain of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business are perceived to have a heightened risk for corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other improper practices. We also count governments among our customers, which increases our risks under the FCPA, the Bribery Act and other laws. Our businesses prohibit bribery and unethical conduct, but these policies may not prevent our employees or agents from violating these laws. Failure by us or our intermediaries to comply with applicable anti-corruption laws, governmental authorities in the United States or elsewhere, as applicable, may result in civil and/or criminal penalties against us, our officers or our employees, prohibition on the conduct of our business, which could all damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our products are subject to numerous, complex government regulations dealing with the production and sale of chemicals and compliance with these regulations could require us to incur additional costs or to reformulate or discontinue certain of our products.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign customs regulations, imports and international trade laws, export control, antitrust laws, environmental and chemicals manufacturing, global climate change, health and safety requirements and zoning and occupancy laws that regulate manufacturers generally or govern the importation, promotion and sale of our products, the operation of factories and warehouse facilities and our relationship with our customers, suppliers and competitors.  Our products and manufacturing processes are also subject to ongoing reviews by certain governmental authorities.. 28. Numerous laws regulating the production and marketing of chemical substances apply to us.  Dozens of substances manufactured, imported, and used by us are regulated under the European Union REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals) regulation and similar laws in other jurisdictions.  We will need to submit a registration for many of these substances between now and June 1, 2018, which will require time and incremental costs.  Moreover, if a registration application was, or in the future is, not submitted by any applicable deadline, our ability to sell those products may be negatively impacted until the registration process has been completed.  In addition, we manufacture, process and/or use substances being evaluated under the REACH regulation's Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) program.  Impacts under this program could include requirements to discontinue certain product lines and to reformulate others, which could materially alter our marketplace position or otherwise have a material financial effect on our revenues.  We also have several product lines that currently rely on lead-based solder and many others that historically did so. Legal claims have been brought alleging harmful exposures or contamination as a result of lead-based solder, and it is possible that we may face additional claims in the future.. Additionally, those requirements, and enforcement of those requirements, may become more stringent in the future. The ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements could be material. Changes in environmental and climate laws or regulations, such as China's latest environmental crackdown, could lead to new or additional investment in production designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, for us and our suppliers. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw materials costs. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will not be required to expend significant funds to comply with, or discharge liabilities arising in the future under, environmental laws, regulations and permits, or that we will not be exposed to material environmental, health or safety litigation. Some of our formulating and manufacturing facilities have an extended history of chemical formulating and manufacturing operations or other industrial activities, and contaminants have been detected at some of our sites and offsite disposal locations. Ultimate environmental costs are difficult to predict and may vary from current estimates and liabilities. The discovery of additional contaminants, the inability or failure of other liable parties to satisfy their obligations, the imposition of additional cleanup obligations, or the commencement of related third-party claims could result in significant additional costs.. Our Agricultural Solutions products are subject to periodic technical review and approval by government authorities in each country where we wish to sell our products.  The regulatory requirements are complex and vary from country to country.  They are also subject to frequent changes as new data requirements arise in response to scientific developments, which require the provision of new data and the conduct of more complex risk assessments. The outcome of technical reviews of existing registrations cannot be guaranteed; registrations may be modified or canceled. In addition, each country also has its own legislative process and specific requirements in order to determine if identified risks are acceptable and can be managed in the local context.  Although the approval process, referred to as \"registration,\" varies from country to country, all processes generally mandate periodic product reviews, referred to as \"re-registration,\" which can often result in the requirement to generate new data and could result in either restrictions being placed on the permissible uses of the product going forward or in a refusal by the relevant government authority to grant a re-registration for the product altogether.  Notably, scientific developments often result in new data requirements under these regulatory directives, laws and/or regulations, thereby impacting both the scope and timing of the process as well as the likelihood of a registration or re-registration being granted by the relevant government authority.  Globally, a large number of AIs in our agrochemical products are currently or will soon be subject to such re-registration processes which may result in products having their approval for sale withdrawn in some countries.  Registrations or re-registrations may not be granted to us on a timely basis, or at all.  Any delay in obtaining, or any failure to obtain or maintain those registrations, would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from those products.  In addition, since all government regulatory authorities have the right to review existing registrations at any time, the sustainability of the existing portfolio cannot be guaranteed. Existing registrations may be lost at any time, resulting in an immediate impact on sales.. Compliance with government regulations regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" may result in increased costs and risks.. As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC has promulgated disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as \"conflict minerals,\" which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries.  In addition, the E.U. adopted a E.U.-wide conflict minerals rule under which most E.U. importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts. Compliance with the regulation is required by January 1, 2021.  Our material sourcing is broad-based and multi-tiered, and due to the complexity of our supply chain we may not be able to easily verify the origins of conflict minerals used in the products we sell.  The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our products.  As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and no assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices.  Future regulations may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities could increase, which may harm our business.  In addition, any non-compliance with the applicable standards or regulations may result in reputational challenges, which could also affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 29. We may be unable to ensure compliance with international trade restrictions and economic sanctions laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have operations, assets and/or make sales in countries all over the world, including countries that are or may become the target of the United States and other countries' trade restrictions, including economic sanctions, which we refer to collectively as \"Economic Sanctions Laws.\"  Economic Sanctions Laws are complex and change with time as international relationships and confrontations between and among nations evolve.  For example, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and the U.S. State Department administer certain laws and regulations that impose penalties upon U.S. persons and entities and, in some instances, non-U.S. entities, for conducting activities or transacting business with certain countries, governments, entities, or individuals subject to U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws.  We do not conduct business in any of the countries subject to such sanctions, such as Cuba, Iran, Syria or North Korea but given the breadth of our international operations and the scope of our sales globally, including via third-party distributors over whom we may have limited or no control, coupled with the complexity and ever-changing nature of Economic Sanctions Laws, there can be no assurance that we have been in the past or will at all times in the future be in full compliance.  If we fail to comply with Economic Sanctions Laws, investigations and/or actions could be taken against us that could materially and adversely affect our reputation or have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock and Senior Notes. We have numerous equity instruments outstanding that could require us to issue additional shares of common stock.  The future issuance of additional shares could result in significant dilution of ownership interests and have an adverse effect on our stock price.. We have a number of equity instruments outstanding that could require us to issue additional shares of our common stock.  Depending on the equity instrument, these additional shares may either be issued for no additional consideration or based on a fixed amount of additional consideration.  Specifically, at December 31, 2017, we had outstanding the following:. • 2,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock which are convertible into shares of our common stock, on a one-for-one basis, at any time at the option of the holder;. • 4,812,742 exchange rights which require us to issue shares of our common stock in exchange for shares of common stock of our subsidiary, PDH, on a one-for-one basis, at any time at the option of the holder;. • approximately 732,197 options which are exercisable to purchase shares of our common stock, on a one-for-one basis, at any time at the option of the holder, of which 557,197 shares were issued under the 2013 Plan; and. • approximately 2,943,529 RSUs which were granted to employees under our 2013 Plan.  Each RSU represents a contingent right to receive one (1) share of our common stock.. We have approximately 11,503,071 shares of our common stock currently available under the 2013 Plan, net of the outstanding RSUs and options noted above (subject to increase in accordance with the terms of such plan), and 496,203 shares issued under the 2013 Plan, and an additional 4,848,689 shares of our common stock currently available under the ESPP.. In addition, the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive an annual dividend on their Series A Preferred Stock in the form of shares of our common stock.  For 2017, no stock dividend was declared with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock.  Since December 31, 2014, the dividend amount is calculated based on the appreciated stock price compared to the highest dividend price (calculated based upon the average of the last ten trading days of the year's volume weighted average share prices) previously used in calculating the Series A Preferred Stock dividends, which currently is $22.85.  The issuance of common stock as stock dividends in the future could have a dilutive impact on, and reduce the value of, our outstanding common stock.. We may issue preferred stock in the future, and the terms of the preferred stock may reduce the value of our common stock.. Our Board is authorized to create and issue one or more additional series of preferred stock, and, with respect to each series, to determine the number of shares constituting the series and the designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, which may include dividend rights, conversion or exchange rights, voting rights, redemption rights and terms and liquidation preferences, without stockholder approval.  If we create and issue one or more additional series of preferred stock, it could affect your rights or reduce the value of our outstanding common stock.  Our Board could, without stockholder approval, issue preferred stock with voting and other rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock and which could have certain anti-takeover effects.. 30. There can be no assurance that we will declare dividends or have the available cash to make dividend payments.. To the extent we intend to pay dividends on our common stock, we will pay such dividends at such times (if any) and in such amounts (if any) as our Board determines appropriate and in accordance with applicable law.  In addition, we are subject to certain restrictions in our financing arrangements which may prohibit or limit our ability to pay dividends. There is therefore no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends going forward or as to the amount of such dividends, if any.. We operate as a holding company and our principal source of operating cash is income received from our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company and do not have any material assets or operations other than ownership of equity interests of our subsidiaries.  Our operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to meet our obligations or to pay dividends is highly dependent on the earnings of, and receipt of funds from, our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans.  As a result, we are dependent on the income generated by our subsidiaries to meet our expenses and operating cash requirements.  The amount of distributions and dividends, if any, which may be paid to us from each of our subsidiaries will depend on many factors, including the results of operations and financial condition, limits on dividends under applicable law, such subsidiary's constitutional documents, documents governing any indebtedness of such subsidiary, and other factors which may be outside our control.  If our subsidiaries are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may be unable to pay our expenses or make distributions and dividends on our shares of common stock.. We are governed by Delaware law, which has anti-takeover implications.. We are governed by Delaware law, the application of which may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts or a change in control.  In particular, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes certain restrictions on merger, business combinations and other transactions between us and holders of 15% or more of our common stock.  A Delaware corporation may opt out of that provision either with an express provision in its original certificate of incorporation or in an amendment to its certificate of incorporation or by-laws approved by its stockholders.  We have not opted out of this provision.  Section 203 could prohibit or delay mergers or other takeover or change in control attempts and, accordingly, may discourage attempts to acquire us, which may negatively affect our stock price.. Volatility of our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of:. • quarterly variations in our operating results;. • changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of management, securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. • the failure to remediate identified material weaknesses;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our Company or our industry in general;. • operating and securities price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us;. • news reports and publication of research reports relating to our business or trends in our markets;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our businesses;. • announcements of strategic developments, including the Proposed Separation, or potential future acquisitions or other material events by us or our competitors;. • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur;. • adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future;. • the failure to identify and complete acquisitions in the future or unexpected difficulties or developments related to the integration of recently completed, pending or future acquisitions;. • actions by institutional stockholders;. • general economic and political conditions such as recessions and acts of war or terrorism; and. • the risk factors set forth in this 2017 Annual Report and other matters discussed herein.. Fluctuations in the price of our common stock could contribute to the loss of all or part of a stockholder's investment in our Company.  Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control.  These factors may cause the market price of our common. 31. stock to decline, regardless of the financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects of us and our subsidiaries.  There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future.. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock.. If we or any of our stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock, or if we issue a large number of shares of common stock in connection with future acquisitions, financings or other circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly.  Moreover, the perception in the public market that we or our stockholders might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of those shares.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our shares of common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances or sales of our shares will have on the market price of such shares.  Sales of substantial amounts of our shares, including sales by significant stockholders, and shares issued in connection with any pending or future acquisition, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our shares of common stock.  Possible sales also may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem necessary or appropriate.. We have redeemed in the past, and may continue to redeem or repurchase, outstanding series of debt securities, which could impact the market for our Senior Notes and/or negatively affect our liquidity.. We may from time to time, in connection with the Proposed Separation or otherwise, seek to repurchase, redeem or refinance our outstanding Senior Notes in open market purchases, accelerated repurchase programs, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers, partial or full calls for redemption or otherwise.  Any such repurchases or redemptions and the timing and amount thereof would depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors.  Depending on such timing and amount, our liquidity could be negatively affected."
