[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following discussion concerns some of the risks associated with our business and should be considered carefully. These risks are interrelated and you should treat them as a whole. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also materially and adversely affect our business operations, the value of our ordinary shares and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. In connection with the forward-looking statements that appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in these risk factors and elsewhere, you should carefully review the section entitled \"Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Our Business. General economic uncertainty and weak demand in the lodging industry could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business strategy depends significantly on demand for vacations generally and, more specifically, on demand for all-inclusive vacation packages. Weak economic conditions in the United States, elsewhere in North America, Europe and much of the rest of the world, and the uncertainty over the duration of these conditions, have had and could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. We cannot provide any assurances that demand for all-inclusive vacation packages will remain consistent with or increase from current levels. If demand weakens, our operating results and growth prospects could be adversely affected. As a result, any delay in, or a weaker than anticipated, economic recovery will adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flows, potentially materially. Furthermore, a significant percentage of our guests originate in the United States and elsewhere in North America and, if travel from the United States or elsewhere in North America was disrupted and we were not able to replace those guests with guests from other geographic areas, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, most of our resorts are located in Mexico and a portion of our guests originate from Mexico and, as a result, our business is exposed to economic conditions in Mexico. If the economy of Mexico weakens or experiences a downturn, it could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Adverse changes in the economic climate, such as high levels of unemployment and underemployment, fuel price increases, declines in the securities and real estate markets, and perceptions of these conditions decrease the level of disposable income of consumers or consumer confidence and could have a material adverse effect on us.. The demand for vacation packages is dependent upon prospective travelers having access to, and believing they will continue to have access to, disposable income, and is therefore affected by international, national and local economic conditions. Adverse changes in the actual or perceived economic climate, such as high levels of unemployment and underemployment, higher interest rates, stock and real estate market declines and/or volatility, more restrictive credit markets, higher taxes, and changes in governmental policies could reduce the level of discretionary income or consumer confidence in the countries from which we source our guests. For example, the worldwide economic downturn had an adverse effect on consumer confidence and discretionary income, resulting in decreased demand and price discounting in the resort sector, including in the markets we service. We cannot predict whether the economic recession will return or when, and the extent to which, economic conditions in the future will be favorable. As a result of the foregoing, we could experience a prolonged period of decreased demand and price discounting in our markets, which would negatively affect our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Terrorist acts, armed conflict, civil unrest, criminal activity and threats thereof, and other international events impacting the security of travel or the perception of security of travel could adversely affect the demand for travel generally and demand for vacation packages at our resorts, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Past acts of terrorism have had an adverse effect on tourism, travel and the availability of air service and other forms of transportation. The threat or possibility of future terrorist acts, an outbreak, escalation and/or continuation of hostilities or armed conflict abroad, civil unrest or the possibility thereof, the issuance of travel advisories by sovereign governments, and other geo-political uncertainties have had and may have an adverse impact on the demand for vacation packages and consequently the pricing for vacation packages. Decreases in demand and reduced pricing in response to such decreased demand would adversely affect our business by reducing our profitability.. Nine of the 13 resorts in our portfolio are located in Mexico, and Mexico has experienced criminal violence for years, primarily due to the activities of drug cartels and related organized crime. These activities and the possible escalation of violence or other safety concerns, including food and beverage safety concerns, associated with them in regions where our resorts are located, or an increase in the perception among our prospective guests of an escalation of such violence or safety concerns,could instill and perpetuate fear among prospective guests and may lead to a loss in business at our resorts in Mexico because these guests may choose to vacation elsewhere or not at all. In addition, increases in violence, crime or civil unrest or other safety concerns in the Dominican Republic, Jamaica, or any other location where we may own a resort in the future, may also lead to decreased demand for our resorts and negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. 14. We are exposed to significant risks related to the geographic concentration of our resorts, including weather-related emergencies such as hurricanes, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our resorts located in Mexico accounted for 65.3% of our Total Net Revenue (as defined in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) for the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition to the matters referred to in the preceding risk factor, damage to these resorts or a disruption of their operations or a reduction of travel to them due to a hurricane or other weather-related or other emergency could reduce their revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. We cannot assure you that any property or business interruption insurance will adequately address all losses, liabilities and damages. In addition, all of our resorts are located on beach front properties in Mexico and the Caribbean and are susceptible to weather-related emergencies, such as hurricanes. For example, our Dreams Punta Cana and Dreams Palm Beach resorts, located in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, were both evacuated in the third quarter of 2017 and suffered property damage due to Hurricane Maria.. The all-inclusive model may not be desirable to prospective guests in the luxury segment of the resort market, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our portfolio is composed predominantly of luxury all-inclusive resorts. The all-inclusive resort market has not traditionally been associated with the high-end and luxury segments of the lodging industry and there is a risk that our target guests, many of whom have not experienced an all-inclusive model, will not find the all-inclusive model appealing. A failure to attract our target guests could result in decreased revenue from our portfolio and could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Our relationship with Hyatt may deteriorate and disputes between Hyatt and us may arise. The Hyatt relationship is important to our business and, if it deteriorates, the value of our portfolio could decline significantly, and it could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are the only operator of resorts operating under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands. However, except for the Hyatt franchise agreements, we have no contractual right to operate any resort in our current or future portfolio under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands or any other Hyatt-sponsored brands. In addition, in the future, Hyatt, in its sole discretion and subject to its obligations under the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement in the Market Area, may designate other third parties as authorized operators of resorts, or Hyatt may decide to directly operate resorts, under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands or any other Hyatt brand, whether owned by third parties or Hyatt itself.. Also, and as described elsewhere in this annual report, subject to its obligations under the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement, Hyatt is free to develop or license other all-inclusive resorts in the Market Area, even under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands. Additionally, outside of the Market Area, Hyatt is free to develop or license other all-inclusive resorts under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands and other Hyatt brands at any time.. Under the terms of our Hyatt Resort Agreements, we are required to meet specified operating standards and other terms and conditions. We expect that Hyatt will periodically inspect our resorts that carry a Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brand to ensure that we follow Hyatt's standards. If we fail to maintain brand standards at one or more of our Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brand resorts, or otherwise fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the Hyatt Resort Agreements, then Hyatt could terminate the agreements related to those resorts and potentially all of our Hyatt resorts. Under the terms of the Hyatt franchise agreements, if, among other triggers, (i) the Hyatt franchise agreements for a certain number of Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brand resorts are terminated or (ii) certain persons acquire our ordinary shares in excess of specified percentage of our ordinary shares and certain mechanisms in our Articles of Association fail to operate to reduce such percentage within 30 days, Hyatt has the right to terminate the Hyatt franchise agreements for all (but not less than all) of our resorts by providing the notice specified in the franchise agreement to us and we will be subject to liquidated damage payments to Hyatt, even for those resorts that are in compliance with their Hyatt franchise agreements. If one or more Hyatt franchise agreements are terminated, the underlying value and performance of our related resort(s) could decline significantly from the loss of associated name recognition, participation in the World of Hyatt guest loyalty program, Hyatt's reservation system and website, and access to Hyatt group sales business, as well as from the costs of \"rebranding\" such resorts and the payment of liquidated damages to Hyatt.. Hyatt may, in its discretion and subject to its obligations under the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement, decline to enter into Hyatt franchise agreements for other all-inclusive resort opportunities that we bring to Hyatt, whether we own the properties or manage them for third-party owners.. If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects and the market price of our ordinary shares, and could divert the attention of our senior management from other important activities.. 15. Our right of first offer in the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement will expire on December 31, 2021 and certain provisions of our Hyatt franchise agreements impose certain restrictions on us, and such agreements are terminable under certain circumstances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Pursuant to the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement, which will expire on December 31, 2021, we and Hyatt will provide each other the right of first offer with respect to any Hyatt All-Inclusive Opportunity in the Market Area and the right to receive an introduction to any third party with respect to any management or franchising opportunity in the Market Area. However, such right of first offer for Hyatt All-Inclusive Opportunities is conditioned on the originating party's acquisition of the related property within 60 days of its offer to the receiving party.  Accordingly, if, for example, Hyatt determines to acquire such property subsequent to the expiration of the aforementioned 60 day period, it would be free to do so without any obligations to Playa in respect of such property.. Subject to its obligations under the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement, Hyatt is free to develop or license other all-inclusive resorts in the Market Area, even under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands. Additionally, outside of the Market Area, Hyatt is free to develop or license other all-inclusive resorts under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands and other Hyatt brands at any time. Similarly, subject to our obligations under the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement, we will be allowed to operate any all-inclusive resort under a Playa-Developed Brand, such as the Panama Jack brand developed with Panama Jack International, Inc., a consumer products company that focuses on resort clothes and furnishings and sun care products (\"Panama Jack\"), provided that we implement strict informational and operational barriers between our operations with respect to the Playa-Developed Brand and our operations with respect to the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands.. In addition, if a Restricted Brand Company (defined as each of Marriott International, Hilton Worldwide Inc., Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide, Inc., InterContinental Hotels Group, Accor Hotels Worldwide or any of their respective affiliates or successors) acquires any ownership interest in us, we are also required to implement strict informational and operational barriers between our operations with respect to such brand and our operations with respect to the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands.. If we do not comply with our obligations to implement these strict informational and operational barriers under the Hyatt franchise agreements, Hyatt may terminate all (but not less than all) of its franchise agreements with us by providing the notice specified in the franchise agreement to us and we will be subject to liquidated damage payments to Hyatt. As a result, such violations could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. The success of five of our resorts will depend substantially on the success of the recently developed Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands, which exposes us to risks associated with concentrating a significant portion of our portfolio in a family of two recently developed related brands. There is a risk that we and Hyatt may not succeed in marketing the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands and that we may not receive the anticipated return on the investment incurred in connection with rebranding the five resorts under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Five of the resorts in our portfolio bear the name of one or both of the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands. As a result of this concentration, our success will depend, in part, on the continued success of these recently developed brands. We believe that building brand value is critical to increase demand and build guest loyalty. Consequently, if market recognition or the positive perception of Hyatt and its brands is reduced or compromised, the goodwill associated with Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brand resorts in our portfolio would likely be adversely affected. Under the Hyatt Resort Agreements, Hyatt provides (or causes to be provided) various marketing services to the relevant resorts, and we may conduct local and regional marketing, advertising and promotional programs, subject to compliance with Hyatt's requirements. We cannot assure you that we and Hyatt will be successful in our marketing efforts to grow either Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brand. Additionally, we are not permitted under the Hyatt franchise agreements to change the brands of our resorts operating under the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands for 15 years (plus any additional years pursuant to Hyatt's renewal options) after the opening of the relevant resorts as Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brand resorts, even if the brands are not successful. As a result, we could be materially and adversely affected if these brands do not succeed.. We have agreed to indemnify Hyatt for losses related to a broad range of matters and if we are required to make payments to Hyatt pursuant to these obligations, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected.. Pursuant to the subscription agreement entered into between Hyatt and us in connection with our Predecessor's formation transactions, we have agreed to indemnify Hyatt for any breaches of our representations, warranties and agreements in the subscription agreement, generally subject to (i) a deductible of $10 million and (ii) a cap of $50 million (other than for breaches of certain representations, for which indemnification is capped at $325 million). In addition, we have agreed to indemnify Hyatt for certain potential losses relating to the lack of operating licenses, noncompliance with certain environmental regulations, tax deficiencies, any material misstatements or omissions in the offering documentation relating to our senior notes offerings and certain indemnity obligations to our Predecessor's prior parent. The representations and warranties we made and our related indemnification obligations survive for varying periods of time from the closing date of our Predecessor's formation transactions in 2013 (some of which have. 16. already elapsed) and some survive indefinitely. If we are required to make future payments to Hyatt pursuant to these obligations, however, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. If we fail to maintain or enhance our proprietary resort brands or if we or our third party owners fail to maintain other brand standards, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected.. In addition to the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands, we own and manage resorts that use other brands, including proprietary brands.  If we fail to maintain and enhance our proprietary resort brands, demand for these resorts will suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in marketing such brands. With respect to resorts we own or manage for third parties that use other brands, we and such third parties will have to comply with applicable brand standards. These standards will require resort maintenance and improvements, including investments in furniture, fixtures, amenities and personnel. If we or our third party property owners fail to maintain brand standards, or otherwise fail to comply with the terms and conditions of agreements with brand owners, then our ability and the ability of our third party owners to use these brands may be terminated, which could cause our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects to be materially and adversely affected.. New brands, such as the Panama Jack resort brand, amenities or services that we launch in the future may not be successful, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. We cannot assure you that any new brands, such as the Panama Jack brand, amenities or services we launch will be successful, or that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing the brands, amenities and services. If new brands, amenities and services are not as successful as we anticipate, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including fluctuations in (a) the value of the local currencies, in which we incur our costs at each resort, relative to the U.S. dollar, in which the revenue from each of our resorts is generally denominated, (b) the currency of our prospective guests, who may have a reduced ability to pay for travel to our resorts, relative to their ability to pay to travel to destinations with more attractive exchange rates, and (c) the value of local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which could impact our ability to meet our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations, including our debt service payments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. The majority of our operating expenses are incurred locally at our resorts and are denominated in Mexican Pesos, the Dominican Peso or the Jamaican dollar. The net proceeds from our outstanding debt borrowings were received and are payable by our subsidiary Playa Resorts Holding B.V., in U.S. dollars and our functional reporting currency is U.S. dollars. An increase in the relative value of the local currencies, in which we incur our costs at each resort, relative to the U.S. dollar, in which our revenue from each resort is denominated, would adversely affect our results of operations for those resorts. Our current policy is not to hedge against changes in foreign exchange rates and we therefore may be adversely affected by appreciation in the value of other currencies against the U.S. dollar, or to prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility. These fluctuations may negatively impact our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations to the extent we are unable to adjust our pricing accordingly.. Additionally, in the event that the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to the currency of the prospective guests living outside the United States, our prospective guests may have a reduced ability to pay for travel to our resorts and this may lead to lower occupancy rates and revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our financial results. An increase in the value of the Mexican Peso, the Dominican Peso or the Jamaican dollar compared to the currencies of other potential destinations may disadvantage the tourism industry in Mexico, the Dominican Republic or Jamaica, respectively, and result in a corresponding decrease in the occupancy rates and revenue of our resorts as consumers may choose destinations in countries with more attractive exchange rates. In the event that this appreciation occurs, it could lead to an increase in the rates we charge for rooms in our resorts, which could result in a decrease in occupancy rates and revenue and, therefore, negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Furthermore, appreciation of local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could make fulfillment of our and our subsidiaries' U.S. dollar denominated obligations, including Playa Resorts Holding B.V.'s debt service payments, more challenging and could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. The departure of any of our key personnel, including Bruce D. Wardinski, Alexander Stadlin, Ryan Hymel and Kevin Froemming, who have significant experience and relationships in the lodging industry, could have a material adverse effect on us.. We depend on the experience and relationships of our senior management team, especially Bruce D. Wardinski, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alexander Stadlin, the Chief Operating Officer, Ryan Hymel, the Chief Financial Officer, and Kevin Froemming, the Chief Marketing Officer, to manage our strategic business direction. The members of our senior management team have an average of 30 years of experience owning, operating, acquiring, repositioning, rebranding, renovating and financing hotel,. 17. resort and all-inclusive properties. In addition, our senior management team has developed an extensive network of industry, corporate and institutional relationships. Other than our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bruce D. Wardinski, our Chief Financial Officer, Ryan Hymel, our Chief Operating Officer, Alexander Stadlin, and our Chief Marketing Officer, Kevin Froemming, our senior management team does not have employment agreements with us or our subsidiaries and we can provide no assurances that any of our key personnel identified above will continue their employment with us. The loss of services of any of Mr. Wardinski, Mr. Stadlin, Mr. Hymel, Mr. Froemming or another member of our senior management team, or any difficulty attracting and retaining other talented and experienced personnel, could have a material adverse effect on us, including, among others, our ability to source potential investment opportunities, our relationship with global and national industry brands and other industry participants or the execution of our business strategy.. We rely on a third party, AMResorts, to manage five of our resorts and we can provide no assurance that AMResorts will manage these resorts successfully or that AMResorts will not be subject to conflicts harmful to our interests.. Pursuant to management agreements with AMResorts, five of our 13 resorts are and will be managed by AMResorts until the earlier of the sale of each such resort or the expiration date of each agreement. Other than the agreement for Dreams La Romana, which may be terminated at any time (without termination fees), these agreements do not expire until 2022. Therefore, absent payment by us of significant termination fees, until the expiration of the management agreements, we will not be able to terminate AMResorts and self-manage these resorts. We can provide no assurance that AMResorts will manage these resorts successfully. Failure by AMResorts to fully perform the duties agreed to in the management agreements or the failure of AMResorts to adequately manage the risks associated with resort operations could materially and adversely affect us. We may have differences with AMResorts and other third-party service providers over their performance and compliance with the terms of the management agreements and other service agreements. In these cases, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. In addition, AMResorts currently owns and/or manages and may in the future own and/or manage other resorts, including all-inclusive resorts in our markets that may compete with our resorts. AMResorts and its affiliates may have interests that conflict with our interests, such as incentives to favor these other resorts over our resorts as a result of more favorable compensation arrangements or by ownership interests in these resorts.. Our strategy to opportunistically acquire, develop and operate in new geographic markets may not be successful, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. In the future, we may acquire or develop and operate resorts in geographic markets in which our management has little or no operating experience and in which potential guests are not familiar with a particular brand with which the resort is affiliated or do not associate the geographic market as an all-inclusive resort destination. As a result, we may incur costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of such resorts that are substantially greater than those incurred in other geographic areas, and such resorts may attract fewer guests than other resorts we may acquire. Consequently, demand at any resorts that we may acquire in unfamiliar markets may be lower than those at resorts that we currently operate or that we may acquire in our existing markets. Unanticipated expenses at and insufficient demand for resorts that we acquire in new geographic markets, therefore, could materially and adversely affect us, including our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Our resort development, acquisition, expansion, repositioning and rebranding projects will be subject to timing, budgeting and other risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may develop, acquire, expand, reposition or rebrand resorts (such as the two resorts we have rebranded under the Panama Jack brand) from time to time as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration general economic conditions. To the extent that we determine to develop, acquire, expand, reposition or rebrand resorts, we could be subject to risks associated with, among others:. • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs;. • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;. • strikes or other labor issues;. • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion;. • investment of substantial capital without, in the case of developed or repositioned resorts, immediate corresponding income;. • results that may not achieve our desired revenue or profit goals;. • acts of nature such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a resort;. • ability to raise capital, including construction or acquisition financing; and. • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project.. 18. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that any development, acquisition, expansion, repositioning and rebranding project will be completed on time or within budget or if the ultimate rates of investment return are below the returns forecasted at the time the project was commenced. If we are unable to complete a project on time or within budget, the resort's projected operating results may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover our potential losses, liabilities and damages and we may not be able to secure insurance to cover all of our risks, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. The business of owning and managing resorts is subject to a number of risks, hazards, adverse environmental conditions, labor disputes, changes in the regulatory environment and natural phenomena such as floods, hurricanes, earthquakes and earth movements. Such occurrences could result in damage or impairment to, or destruction of, our resorts, personal injury or death, environmental damage, business interruption, monetary losses and legal liability.. While insurance is not commonly available for all these risks, we maintain customary insurance against risks that we believe are typical and reasonably insurable in the lodging industry and in amounts that we believe to be reasonable but that contain limits, deductibles, exclusions and endorsements. However, we may decide not to insure against certain risks because of high premiums compared to the benefit offered by such insurance or for other reasons. In the event that costs or losses exceed our available insurance or additional liability is imposed on us for which we are not insured or are otherwise unable to seek reimbursement, we could be materially and adversely affected, including our financial results. We may not be able to continue to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future or at all, and some claims may not be paid. There can be no assurance that the coverage and amounts of our insurance will be sufficient for our needs.. Labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees. As of December 31, 2017, we directly and indirectly employed approximately 9,900 employees worldwide at both our corporate offices and on-site at our resorts. If we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage, and engage skilled employees, our ability to manage and staff our resorts could be impaired, which could reduce guest satisfaction. Staffing shortages in places where our resorts are located also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. Because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our resorts, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. A significant number of our employees are unionized, and if labor negotiations or work stoppages were to disrupt our operations, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. Approximately half of our full-time equivalent work force is unionized. As a result, we are required to negotiate the wages, salaries, benefits, staffing levels and other terms with many of our employees collectively and we are exposed to the risk of disruptions to our operations. Our results could be adversely affected if future labor negotiations were to disrupt our operations. If we were to experience labor unrest, strikes or other business interruptions in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise, or if we were unable to negotiate labor contracts on reasonable terms, we could be materially and adversely affected, including our results of operations. In addition, our ability to make adjustments to control compensation and benefits costs, rebalance our portfolio or otherwise adapt to changing business needs may be limited by the terms and duration of our collective bargaining agreements.. Many of our guests rely on a combination of scheduled commercial airline services and tour operator services for passenger connections, and price increases or service changes by airlines or tour operators could have a material adverse effect on us, including reducing our occupancy rates and revenue and, therefore, our liquidity and results of operations.. Many of our guests depend on a combination of scheduled commercial airline services and tour operator services to transport them to airports near our resorts. Increases in the price of airfare, due to increases in fuel prices or other factors, would increase the overall vacation cost to our guests and may adversely affect demand for our vacation packages. Changes in commercial airline services or tour operator services as a result of strikes, weather or other events, or the lack of availability due to schedule changes or a high level of airline bookings, could have a material adverse effect on us, including our occupancy rates and revenue and, therefore, our liquidity and results of operations.. 19. Our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel and resort brands and operators for guests, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our operating margins, market share and financial results.. We generally operate in markets that contain numerous competitors. Each of our resort brands competes with major chains in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets, including with recent entrants into the all-inclusive segment of the lodging industry in the regions in which we operate. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain guests depends on our success in establishing and distinguishing the recognition and reputation of our brands, our locations, our guest satisfaction, our room rates, quality of service, amenities and quality of accommodations and our overall value from offerings by others. If we are unable to compete successfully in these countries, it could have a material adverse effect on us, including our operating margins, market share and financial results.. Any joint venture investments that we make in the future could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on co-venturers' financial condition and liquidity and disputes between our co-venturers and us.. We may co-invest in resorts in the future with third parties through partnerships or other joint ventures, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for any such ventures. In this event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the joint venture and, in certain cases, may have little or no decision-making authority. Investments through partnerships or other joint ventures may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, make dubious business decisions or block or delay necessary decisions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our executive officers, senior management and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, action by, or disputes with, partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or co-venturers.. Our concentration in a particular segment of a single industry limits our ability to offset the risks of a downturn in that segment, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. All of our assets are resorts and resort-related assets and we expect that all of our business will continue to be resort-related. Furthermore, our business is focused primarily on, and our acquisition strategy targets the acquisition of resorts in, the all-inclusive segment of the lodging industry (and properties that we believe can be converted into all-inclusive resorts in a manner consistent with our business strategy). This concentration exposes us to the risk of economic downturns in the lodging industry and in the all-inclusive segment of the lodging industry to a greater extent than if our portfolio also included assets from other segments of the real estate industry or other sectors of the lodging industry. As a result, we are susceptible to a downturn in the lodging industry and, in particular, to a downturn affecting the all-inclusive segment thereof. If market conditions adversely affect the lodging industry, in general, and the all-inclusive segment thereof, in particular, it could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. The ongoing need for capital expenditures at our resorts could have a material adverse effect on us, including our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Our resorts will have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. In addition, Hyatt also will require periodic capital improvements by us as a condition of maintaining the two Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands. These capital improvements may give rise to the following risks:. • possible environmental liabilities;. • construction cost overruns and delays;. • the decline in revenues while rooms or restaurants are out of service due to capital improvement projects;. • a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all;. • uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun;. • disputes with Hyatt regarding compliance with the Hyatt Resort Agreements or the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement; and. 20. • bankruptcy or insolvency of a contracted party during a capital improvement project or other situation that renders them unable to complete their work.. The costs of all these capital improvements or any of the above noted factors could have a material adverse effect on us, including our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. We have substantial debt outstanding currently and may incur additional debt in the future. The principal, premium, if any, and interest payment obligations of such debt may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to invest in our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $906.4 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt obligations on a consolidated basis (which represents the principal amounts outstanding under our term loan (the \"Term Loan\") and revolving credit facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility,\" and, collectively with the Term Loan, the \"Senior Secured Credit Facility\"), and excludes a $2.6 million issuance discount on the Term Loan and $5.6 million of unamortized debt issuance costs). In addition, the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Facility will permit us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to our ability to meet certain borrowing conditions.. Our substantial debt may have important consequences to you. For instance, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which would reduce funds available for other business purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions;. •. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that may have less debt and better access to capital resources;. • limit our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may adversely affect our operations;. • cause us to incur higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates or in the event of refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates;. • limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or redeem or repurchase shares; and/or. • limit our ability to refinance existing debt or to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and other business needs, including capital requirements and acquisitions.. Our ability to service our significant financial obligations depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow from operations, which is partially subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations, that future borrowings will be available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility, or that we will be able to complete any necessary financings or refinancings, in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our operations, engage in acquisitions, capital improvements or other development activities, pay our debts and other obligations and fund our other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, at times or on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and any additional debt financing we do obtain may significantly increase our leverage on unfavorable terms. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations, which could result in us being in default thereon, in which circumstances our lenders could cease making loans to us, lenders or other holders of our debt could accelerate and declare due all outstanding obligations due under the respective agreements and secured lenders could foreclose on their collateral, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, the current volatility in the capital markets may also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, or to refinance our existing debt, on terms or at times favorable to us.. The agreements which govern our various debt obligations impose restrictions on our business and limit our ability to undertake certain actions.. The agreements which govern our various debt obligations, including the Senior Secured Credit Facility, include covenants imposing significant restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants place restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. • incur additional debt;. 21. • pay dividends or repurchase shares or make other distributions to shareholders;. • make investments or acquisitions;. • create liens or use assets as security in other transactions;. • issue guarantees;. • merge or consolidate, or sell, transfer, lease or dispose of substantially all of our assets;. • amend our Articles of Association or bylaws;. • engage in transactions with affiliates; and. • purchase, sell or transfer certain assets.. The Senior Secured Credit Facility also requires us to comply with certain financial and other covenants. Our ability to comply with these agreements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Secured Credit Facility. An event of default under any of our debt agreements could permit such lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable, which could, in turn, trigger defaults under other debt obligations and could result in the termination of commitments of the lenders to make further extensions of credit under the Revolving Credit Facility. If we are unable to repay debt to our lenders, or are otherwise in default under any provision governing any secured debt obligations, our secured lenders could proceed against us and against any collateral securing that debt.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our existing and any future variable rate indebtedness would also increase and our cash available to service our other obligations and invest in our business would decrease. Furthermore, rising interest rates would likely increase our interest obligations on future fixed rate indebtedness. As a result, rising interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.. Any mortgage debt we incur will expose us to increased risk of property losses due to foreclosure, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Incurring mortgage debt increases our risk of property losses because any defaults on indebtedness secured by our resorts may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property securing the loan for which we are in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any nonrecourse mortgage on any of our resorts may be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. In certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate, if any such foreclosure is treated as a sale of the property and the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we could recognize taxable income upon foreclosure but may not receive any cash proceeds.. In addition, any default under our mortgage debt may increase the risk of default on our other indebtedness, including other mortgage debt. If this occurs, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our financial condition, liquidity (including our future access to borrowing) and results of operations.. We may become subject to disputes or legal, regulatory or other proceedings that could involve significant expenditures by us, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes or legal, regulatory or other proceedings from time to time relating to tax matters, environmental matters, government regulations, including licensing and permitting requirements, food and beverages safety regulations, personal injury, labor and employment matters, contract disputes and other issues. In addition, amenities at our resorts, including restaurants, bars and swimming pools, are subject to significant regulations, and government authorities may disagree with our interpretations of these regulations, or may enforce regulations that historically have not been enforced. Such disputes, individually or collectively, could adversely affect our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business or impacting our market reputation with our guests. If these disputes develop into proceedings or judgments, these proceedings or judgments, individually or collectively, could distract our senior management, disrupt our business or involve significant expenditures and our reserves relating to ongoing proceedings, if any, may ultimately prove to be inadequate, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our financial results.. 22. Some of the resorts in our portfolio located in Mexico were constructed and renovated without certain approvals. The authority granted to the Mexican government is plenary and we can give no assurance it will not exercise its authority to impose fines, remediation measures or close part or all of the related resort(s), which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Some of the resorts in our portfolio were constructed and renovated without certain approvals at the time the construction and renovation work was carried out, as the prior owners of such resorts determined that such approvals were not required under the Mexican law. We can give no assurance that the Mexican authorities will have the same interpretation of Mexican law as the prior owners. The authority granted to the Mexican government in this regard is plenary and we can give no assurance the Mexican government will not exercise its authority to impose fines, to require us to perform remediation/restoration activities and/or to contribute to environmental trusts, and/or to close part or all of the related resort(s), which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. As of 1988, Mexican environmental laws were amended in order to establish that, among other things, any new hotel construction and certain renovations require the preparation of an environmental impact statement (\"MIA\") in order to obtain an Environmental Impact Authorization (Resolutivo de Impacto Ambiental). Furthermore, since 2003 depending on each specific project, a supporting technical report (\"ETJ\") is required to obtain an Authorization to Change the Use of Soil of Forestal Land (Autorización de Cambio de Uso de Suelo en Terrenos Forestales).. With respect to Real Resorts:. • Two of the acquired resorts, Panama Jack Resorts Cancún and Hyatt Zilara Cancún, were built prior to implementation of the MIA in 1988 and, therefore, required no such authorization. However, certain renovations to these resorts were carried out after 1988 without an MIA because the prior owner determined that no authorization was needed pursuant to an exception in the Mexican law. We can give no assurance that the Mexican authorities will have the same interpretation of the applicability of the exception as the prior owner.. • The remaining two resorts, Royal Playa del Carmen and Panama Jack Resorts Playa del Carmen, were constructed after 1988 without the required MIA and ETJ authorizations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, those resorts were operated by the prior owner, and since our Predecessor's acquisition at the time of our Predecessor's formation transaction have been operated by our Predecessor and us, with no interference in the normal course of business.. The consequences of failing to obtain the MIA and/or ETJ, as applicable, could result in fines of up to approximately $300,000, obligations to perform remediation/restoration activities and/or contribute to environmental trusts, and, in the case of a severe violation, a partial or total closing or a demolition of the relevant resort(s). Although we are not aware of closings or demolitions due to the failure to obtain the MIA and/or ETJ, no assurance can be given that such action will not be taken in the future.. Our wholly-owned subsidiary Playa Resorts Holding B.V. may be required to obtain a banking license and/or may be in violation of the prohibition to attract repayable funds as a result of having issued senior notes and borrowing under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Under the Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of June 26, 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (the \"CRR\"), which took effect on January 1, 2014, there is uncertainty regarding how certain key terms in the CRR are to be interpreted.. If such terms are not interpreted in a manner that is consistent with current Dutch national guidance on which Playa Resorts Holding B.V. (our wholly-owned subsidiary) relies, Playa Resorts Holding B.V. could be categorized as a \"credit institution\" as a consequence of borrowing under our Senior Secured Credit Facility if it is deemed to be \"an undertaking the business of which is to receive deposits or other repayable funds from the public and to grant credits for its own account.\" This would require it to obtain a banking license and it could be deemed to be in violation of the prohibition on conducting the business of a bank without such a license. With respect to the borrowing under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, Playa Resorts Holding B.V. could also be deemed to be in violation of the prohibition on attracting repayable funds from the public. In each such case, it could, as a result, be subject to certain enforcement measures such as a warning and/or instructions by the regulator, incremental penalty payments (last onder dwangsom) and administrative fines (bestuurlijke boete), which all may be disclosed publicly by the regulator.. There is limited official guidance at the EU level as to the key elements of the definition of \"credit institution,\" such as the terms \"repayable funds\" and \"the public.\" The Netherlands legislature has indicated that, as long as there is no clear guidance at the EU level, it is to be expected that the current Dutch national interpretation of these terms will continue to be taken into account for the use and interpretation thereof. Playa Resorts Holding B.V. relies on this national interpretation to reach the conclusion that a requirement to obtain a banking license is not triggered, and that the prohibitions on conducting the business of a bank without such a license and on attracting repayable funds from the public have not been violated, on the basis that (i) each lender under our Senior Secured Credit Facility has extended loans to Playa Resorts Holding B.V. for an initial amount of at least the U.S. dollar equivalent of \200100,000 or has. 23. assumed rights and/or obligations vis-à-vis Playa Resorts Holding B.V. the value of which is at least the U.S. dollar equivalent of \200100,000 and (ii) all senior notes which were issued by Playa Resorts Holding B.V. were in denominations which equal or are greater than the U.S. dollar equivalent of \200100,000.. If European guidance is published on what constitutes \"the public\" as referred to in the CRR, and such guidance does not provide that the holder of a note of $150,000 or more, such as was the case with our senior notes, or the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, each providing a loan the initial amount of which exceeds the U.S. dollar equivalent of \200100,000, are excluded from being considered part of \"the public\" and the current Dutch national interpretation of these terms is not considered to be \"grandfathered,\" then Playa Resorts Holding B.V. may be required to obtain a banking license, and/or may be deemed to be in violation of the prohibition on conducting the business of a bank without such a license and, with respect to our Senior Secured Credit Facility, the prohibition on attracting repayable funds from the public and, as a result may, in each case, be subject to certain enforcement measures as described above. If Playa Resorts Holding B.V. is required to obtain a banking license or becomes subject to such enforcement measures, we could be materially adversely affected.. We have identified, and our independent registered public accounting firm has communicated to us, a material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017. As a result, we have an increased risk of a material misstatement in our consolidated financial statements, and our internal control over financial reporting and our monitoring controls and processes were not effective as of such date. This material weakness has not been remediated, and it will take time for us to develop, implement and test additional information technology controls. Accordingly, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and may lead to a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares.. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have identified, and Deloitte & Touche, LLP (\"Deloitte\"), the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, included in this annual report and the related financial statement schedule included in this annual report, has communicated, an existing material weakness in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, as follows:. • Our information technology controls, including system access, change management, and segregation of duties are not sufficiently designed and implemented to address certain information technology risks and, as a result, could expose our systems and data to unauthorized use or alteration.. This material weakness increases the risk of a material misstatement in our financial statements.. We continue to take steps to remediate the identified material weakness. The Company has engaged a third party consulting firm to assist the Company with the implementation of a global information technology solution designed to address the elements which give rise to our material weakness, which is expected to be finalized in late 2018 or early 2019. However, effectiveness will need to be successfully tested over several quarters before we can conclude that the material weakness has been remediated. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in making these improvements and in remediating our current material weakness in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not prevent future material weaknesses from occurring.. The results of operations of our resorts may be adversely affected by various operating risks common to the lodging industry, including competition, over-supply and dependence on tourism, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our resorts are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the following:. • the availability of and demand for hotel and resort rooms;. • over-building of hotels and resorts in the markets in which we operate, which results in increased supply and may adversely affect occupancy and revenues at our resorts;. • pricing strategies of our competitors;. • increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates or other income;. • international, national, and regional economic and geopolitical conditions;. 24. • the impact of war, crime, actual or threatened terrorist activity and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to war, terrorist activity or threats (including Travel Advisories issued by the U.S. Department of State) and civil unrest;. •. • the impact of any economic or political instability in Mexico due to unsettled political conditions, including civil unrest, widespread criminal activity, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict, strikes and governmental actions;. • the desirability of particular locations and changes in travel patterns;. • the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, and oil spills;. • events that may be beyond our control that could adversely affect the reputation of one or more of our resorts or that may disproportionately and adversely impact the reputation of our brands or resorts;. • taxes and government regulations that influence or determine wages, prices, interest rates, construction procedures, and costs;. • adverse effects of a downturn in the lodging industry, especially leisure travel and tourism spending;. • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing;. • necessity for periodic capital reinvestment to maintain, repair, expand, renovate and reposition our resorts;. • the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, those associated with privacy, marketing and sales, licensing, labor, employment, the environment, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\");. • the availability, cost and other terms of capital to allow us to fund investments in our portfolio and the acquisition of new resorts;. • regional, national and international development of competing resorts;. • increases in wages and other labor costs, energy, healthcare, insurance, transportation and fuel, and other expenses central to the conduct of our business or the cost of travel for our guests, including recent increases in energy costs and any resulting increase in travel costs or decrease in airline capacity;. • availability, cost and other terms of insurance;. • organized labor activities, which could cause the diversion of business from resorts involved in labor negotiations, loss of group business, and/or increased labor costs;. • currency exchange fluctuations;. • trademark or intellectual property infringement; and. • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotels, resorts and real estate, as we discuss in detail below.. Any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce the demand for our resorts or the prices our resorts are able to obtain or could increase our costs and therefore reduce the operating results of our resorts. Even where such factors do not reduce demand, resort-level profit margins may suffer if we are unable to fully recover increased operating costs from our guests. These factors could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. The seasonality of the lodging industry could have a material adverse effect on us.. The lodging industry is seasonal in nature, which can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. The seasonality of the lodging industry and the location of our resorts in Mexico and the Caribbean will generally result in the greatest demand for our resorts between mid-December and April of each year, yielding higher occupancy levels and package rates during this period. This seasonality in demand has resulted in predictable fluctuations in revenue, results of operations and liquidity, which are consistently higher during the first quarter of each year than in successive quarters. We can provide no assurances that these seasonal fluctuations will, in the future, be consistent with our historical experience or whether any shortfalls that occur as a result of these fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us.. The cyclical nature of the lodging industry may cause fluctuations in our operating performance, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. The lodging industry is highly cyclical in nature. Fluctuations in operating performance are caused largely by general economic and local market conditions, which subsequently affect levels of business and leisure travel. In addition to general economic. 25. conditions, new hotel and resort room supply is an important factor that can affect the lodging industry's performance, and over-building has the potential to further exacerbate the negative impact of an economic recession. Room rates and occupancy, and thus Net Package RevPAR (as defined in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), tend to increase when demand growth exceeds supply growth. A decline in lodging demand, or increase in lodging supply, could result in returns that are substantially below expectations, or result in losses, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. Further, the costs of running a resort tend to be more fixed than variable. As a result, in an environment of declining revenue, the rate of decline in earnings is likely to be higher than the rate of decline in revenue.. The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers could have a material adverse effect on us.. Some of our vacation packages are booked through Internet travel intermediaries, including, but not limited to, Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. As these Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer lodging as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality, such as \"three-star downtown hotel,\" at the expense of brand identification or quality of product or service. If consumers develop brand loyalties to Internet reservations systems rather than to the Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brands and the other brands under which our resorts are operated, the value of our resorts could deteriorate and we could be materially and adversely affected, including our financial results.. Cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of internal or guest data could harm our reputation and result in a loss of business and/or subject us to costs, fines, investigations, enforcement actions or lawsuits.. We, Hyatt and our third-party resort manager collect, use and retain large volumes of guest data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, for business, marketing, and other purposes in our, Hyatt's and our third-party resort manager's various information technology systems, which enter, process, summarize and report such data. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. We, Hyatt and our third-party resort manager store and process such internal and guest data both at on-site facilities and at third-party owned facilities including, for example, in a third-party hosted cloud environment. The integrity and protection of our guest, employee and company data, as well as the continuous operation of our, Hyatt's and our third-party resort manager's systems, is critical to our business. Our guests and employees expect that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulations and contractual obligations applicable to security and privacy are increasingly demanding, both in the United States and in other jurisdictions where we operate, and cyber-criminals have been recently targeting the lodging industry. We continue to develop and enhance controls and security measures to protect against the risk of theft, loss or fraudulent or unlawful use of guest, employee or company data, and we maintain an ongoing process to re-evaluate the adequacy of our controls and measures. Notwithstanding our efforts, because of the scope and complexity of their information technology structure, our reliance on third parties to support and protect our structure and data, and the constantly evolving cyber-threat landscape, our systems may be vulnerable to disruptions, failures, unauthorized access, cyber-terrorism, employee error, negligence, fraud or other misuse. These or similar occurrences, whether accidental or intentional, could result in theft, unauthorized access or disclosure, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of guest, employee or company data which could harm our reputation or result in a loss of business, as well as remedial and other costs, fines, investigations, enforcement actions, or lawsuits. As a result, future incidents could have a material adverse impact on us, including our business, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and prospects.. We face risks related to pandemic diseases, including avian flu, H1N1 flu, H7N9 flu, Ebola virus and Zika virus, which could materially and adversely affect travel and result in reduced demand for our resorts and could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effect of, or the public perception or a risk of, a pandemic disease on the travel industry. For example, the outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome (\"SARS\") and avian flu in 2003 had a severe impact on the travel industry, and the outbreaks of H1N1 flu in 2009 threatened to have a similar impact. Recently, cases of the Zika virus have been reported in regions in which our resorts are located. Additionally, the public perception of a risk of a pandemic or media coverage of these diseases, or public perception of health risks linked to perceived regional food and beverage safety, particularly if focused on regions in which our resorts are located, may adversely affect us by reducing demand for our resorts. A prolonged occurrence of SARS, avian flu, H1N1 flu, H7N9 flu, Ebola virus, Zika virus or another pandemic disease also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for our resorts and could have a material adverse effect on us.. We may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to our existing resorts and resorts that we acquire, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our existing resorts and resorts that we may in the future acquire may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. In general, the representations and warranties provided under. 26. the transaction agreements related to our existing resorts and any future acquisitions of resorts by us may not survive the closing of the transactions. Furthermore, indemnification under such agreements may not exist or be limited and subject to various exceptions or materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the transferors or sellers of their representations and warranties or other prior actions by the sellers. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with these resorts may exceed our expectations, and we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may materially and adversely affect us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Conducting business internationally may result in increased risks and any such risks could have a material adverse effect on us.. We operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop an international presence. Operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including political risks, risks of increase in duties and taxes, risks relating to anti-bribery laws, such as the FCPA, as well as changes in laws and policies affecting vacation businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. Because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. Additional risks include interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. We could be exposed to liabilities under the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and regulations, including non-U.S. laws, any of which could have a material adverse impact on us.. We have international operations, and as a result are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries or agents from engaging in bribery or making improper payments to foreign officials or their agents or other entities. The FCPA also requires companies to make and keep books and records and accounts which, in reasonable detail, reflect their transactions, including the disposition of their assets. We have implemented, and will continue to evaluate and improve, safeguards and policies designed to prevent violations of various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign officials or their agents or other entities for the purpose of conducting business, and we are in the process of expanding our training program. The countries in which we own resorts have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite existing safeguards and any future improvements to our policies and training, we will be exposed to risks from deliberate, reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents for which we might be held responsible. Failure to comply with these laws or our internal policies could lead to criminal and civil penalties and other legal and regulatory liabilities and require us to undertake remedial measures, any of which could have a material adverse impact on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Our existing resorts and resorts that we may acquire may contain or develop harmful mold that could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. Some of the resorts in our portfolio or resorts that we may acquire may contain microbial matter, such as mold and mildew, which could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected resort. Furthermore, we can provide no assurances that we will be successful in identifying harmful mold and mildew at resorts that we seek to acquire, which could require us to take remedial action at acquired resorts. The presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from guests, employees and others if property damage or health concerns arise, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our results of operations.. Climate change may adversely affect our business, which could materially and adversely affect us.. To the extent that climate change does occur, we may experience changes in the frequency, duration and severity of extreme weather events and changes in precipitation and temperature, which may result in physical damage or a decrease in demand for our properties, all of which are located in coastal beachfront locations that are vulnerable to significant property damage from severe weather events, including hurricanes. Should the impact of climate change be material in nature, we could be materially and adversely affected, including our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, changes in applicable legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of the properties in order to comply with such regulations. Actual or anticipated losses resulting from the consequences of climate change could also impact the cost or availability of insurance.. 27. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to sell resorts or otherwise respond to adverse changes in the performance of our resorts, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to sell one or more resorts promptly for reasonable prices in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions will be limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors beyond our control, including:. • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions;. • changes in interest and tax rates and in the availability and cost and other terms of debt financing;. • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances;. • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures;. • changes in operating expenses; and. • civil unrest, widespread criminal activity, and acts of nature, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism.. We may decide to sell resorts in the future. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any resort for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a resort.. During the recent economic recession, the availability of credit to purchasers of hotels and resorts and financing structures, such as commercial mortgage-backed securities, which had been used to finance many hotel and resort acquisitions in prior years, was reduced. Subsequent to such economic recession, such credit availability and financing structures have been inconsistent from time to time. If financing for hotels and resorts is not available on attractive terms or at all, it will adversely impact the ability of third parties to buy our resorts. As a result, we may hold our resorts for a longer period than we would otherwise desire and may sell resorts at a loss.. In addition, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a resort can be sold. We can provide no assurances that we will have funds available, or access to such funds, to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a resort, we may agree to lock-out provisions or tax protection agreements that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our resorts or a need for liquidity could materially and adversely affect us, including our financial results.. We could incur significant costs related to government regulation and litigation with respect to environmental matters, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our resorts are subject to various international, national, regional and local environmental laws that impose liability for contamination. Under these laws, governmental entities have the authority to require us, as the current owner of property, to perform or pay for the clean-up of contamination (including hazardous substances, waste, or petroleum products) at, on, under or emanating from our property and to pay for natural resource damages arising from such contamination. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator or other responsible party knew of, or caused, such contamination, and the liability may be joint and several. Because these laws also impose liability on persons who owned a property at the time it was or became contaminated, it is possible we could incur cleanup costs or other environmental liabilities even after we sell resorts. Contamination at, on, under or emanating from our resorts also may expose us to liability to private parties for costs of remediation and/or personal injury or property damage. In addition, environmental laws may create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs to address such contamination. If contamination is discovered on our resorts, environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which our property may be used or our business may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Moreover, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner's ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, persons who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, may be liable for costs associated with cleanup of that facility.. In addition, our resorts are subject to various international, national, regional and local environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements that address a wide variety of issues. Some of our resorts routinely handle and use hazardous or regulated substances and wastes as part of their operations, which are subject to regulation (e.g., swimming pool chemicals). Our resorts incur costs to comply with these environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and could be subject to fines and penalties for non-compliance with applicable laws.. 28. Liabilities and costs associated with contamination at, on, under or emanating from our properties, defending against claims, or complying with environmental, health and safety laws could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. We can provide no assurances that (i) changes in current laws or regulations or future laws or regulations will not impose additional or new material environmental liabilities or (ii) the current environmental condition of our resorts will not be affected by our operations, by the condition of the resorts in the vicinity of our resorts, or by third parties unrelated to us. The discovery of material environmental liabilities at our resorts could subject us to unanticipated significant costs, which could result in significant losses. Please see \"Risk Factors  -  Risks Related to Our Business  -  We may become subject to disputes or legal, regulatory or other proceedings that could involve significant expenditures by us, which could have a material adverse effect on us\" as to the possibility of disputes or legal, regulatory or other proceedings that could adversely affect us.. The tax laws, rules and regulations (or interpretations thereof) in the jurisdictions in which we operate may change, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We generally seek to structure our business activities in the jurisdictions in which we operate in a manner that is tax-efficient, taking into account the relevant tax laws, rules and regulations. However, tax laws, rules and regulations in these jurisdictions are complex and are subject to change as well as subject to interpretation by local tax authorities and courts. There can be no assurance that these tax laws, rules and regulations (or interpretations thereof) will not change, possibly with retroactive effect, or that local tax authorities may not otherwise successfully assert positions contrary to those taken by us. In any such case, we may be required to operate in a less tax-efficient manner, incur costs and expenses to restructure our operations and/or owe past taxes (and potentially interest and penalties), which in each case could negatively impact our operations. For example, we will need to renegotiate our agreements which determine our taxes in the Dominican Republic, known as advanced pricing agreements, with The Ministry of Finance of the Dominican Republic in 2019 when our current agreements expire. There is no certainty that the approved tax arrangements in this jurisdiction will be similar to our current arrangements.. Increases in property taxes would increase our operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Each of our resorts is subject to real and personal property taxes, especially upon any development, redevelopment, rebranding, repositioning and renovation. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as our resorts are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase, we would incur a corresponding increase in our operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on us, including our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects.. Failure to consummate or delay in consummating the Sagicor Contribution, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on us.. The consummation of the Sagicor Contribution is subject to a number of conditions that must be fulfilled to consummate the transaction. These conditions, some of which are outside of our control, include: satisfaction of the obligations of both parties under the applicable transaction documents; payment of the applicable consideration due in the Sagicor Contribution; completed regulatory and third party approvals; the continued accuracy of the representations and warranties of both parties subject to specified materiality standards; and the performance of both parties of their covenants and agreements. These conditions to the closing of the Sagicor Contribution may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the transaction may not be consummated or could be delayed. If we fail to consummate the Sagicor Contribution in a timely matter, or at all, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline to the extent that the current market price of our ordinary shares reflects an assumption that the transaction will be consummated.  In addition, we have incurred due diligence, legal, accounting and other third party costs in connection with the transaction that we would still have to pay even if the transaction is not consummated.. Although we expect the Sagicor Contribution to result in benefits, we may not be able to successfully realize all of these benefits, or those benefits may take longer or require greater capital expenditures to realize than anticipated.. Even if we consummate the Sagicor Contribution, the acquisition may not perform in accordance with our expectations. For example, we may decide to make substantial capital expenditures on development activities at the Sagicor Assets, and expect to incur other expenses relating to, among other things, redevelopment and rebranding activities. The actual timing and amount of these capital expenditures and other expenses may significantly exceed our expectations and, in such case, could negatively impact our results of operations and liquidity. Similarly, our anticipated returns on these capital expenditures may not materialize. When development and redevelopment activities are ongoing at an operating resort, such activities may adversely affect the results of these properties during and after these activities. In addition, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Sagicor Contribution will depend on our ability to operate the contributed properties in a manner that realizes anticipated synergies. If we are not able to realize these benefits, our results and financial condition could suffer.. 29. We may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to the Sagicor Contribution for which we may have no or limited recourse.. The properties subject to the Sagicor Contribution may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no or limited recourse. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that we may incur with respect to liabilities associated with the Sagicor Contribution may exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares. The rights of our shareholders and the duties of our directors are governed by Dutch law, our Articles of Association and internal rules and policies adopted by our board of directors (the \"Board\"), and differ in some important respects from the rights of shareholders and the duties of members of a board of directors of a U.S. corporation.. Our corporate affairs, as a Dutch public limited liability company (naamloze vennootschap), are governed by our Articles of Association, internal rules and policies adopted by our Board and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the duties of our directors under Dutch law are different from the rights of shareholders and/or the duties of directors of a corporation organized under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our Board is required by Dutch law to consider our interests and the interests of our shareholders, our employees and other stakeholders (e.g., our creditors, guests and suppliers) as a whole and not only those of our shareholders, which may negatively affect the value of your investment.. In addition, the rights of our shareholders, including for example the rights of shareholders as they relate to the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our Articles of Association and such rights differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, if we engaged in a merger, Dutch law would not grant appraisal rights to any of our shareholders who wished to challenge the consideration to be paid to them upon such merger (without prejudice, however, to certain cash exit rights offered under Dutch law in certain circumstances).. We are organized and existing under the laws of the Netherlands, and, as such, the rights of our shareholders and the civil liability of our directors and executive officers are governed in certain respects by the laws of the Netherlands.. We are organized and existing under the laws of the Netherlands, and, as such, the rights of our shareholders and the civil liability of our directors and executive officers are governed in certain respects by the laws of the Netherlands. The ability of our shareholders in certain countries other than the Netherlands to bring an action against us, our directors and executive officers may be limited under applicable law. In addition, substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for shareholders to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors and executive officers or to enforce judgments against us or them in U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. In addition, it is not clear whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us or any of our directors and executive officers in an original action based solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands.. As of the date of this annual report, there is no treaty in effect between the United States and the Netherlands providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil and commercial matters. With respect to choice of court agreements in civil or commercial matters, it is noted that the Hague Convention on Choice of Court Agreements entered into force for the Netherlands, but has not entered into force for the United States. Accordingly, a judgment rendered by a court in the United States, whether or not predicated solely upon U.S. securities laws, would not automatically be recognized and enforced by the competent Dutch courts. However, if a person has obtained a judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the United States and files a claim with the competent Dutch court, the Dutch court will in principle give binding effect to a foreign judgment if (i) the jurisdiction of the foreign court was based on a ground of jurisdiction that is generally acceptable according to international standards, (ii) the judgment by the foreign court was rendered in legal proceedings that comply with the Dutch standards of proper administration of justice including sufficient safeguards (behoorlijke rechtspleging) and (iii) binding effect of such foreign judgment is not contrary to Dutch public order and (iv) the judgment by the foreign court is not incompatible with a decision rendered between the same parties by a Dutch court, or with a previous decision rendered between the same parties by a foreign court in a dispute that concerns the same subject and is based on the same cause, provided that the previous decision qualifies for acknowledgment in the Netherlands. Even if such a foreign judgment is giving binding effect, a claim based thereon may, however, still be rejected if the foreign judgment is not or no longer formally enforceable.. Based on the lack of a treaty as described above, U.S. investors may not be able to enforce against us or our directors, representatives or certain experts named herein who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws.. 30. Under our Articles of Association, and certain other contractual arrangements between us and our directors, we indemnify and hold our directors harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. There is doubt, however, as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such indemnity provisions in an action brought against one of our directors in the United States under U.S. securities laws.. We do not currently anticipate paying dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future.. Our Articles of Association prescribe that some or all of our profits or reserves appearing from our annual accounts adopted by the general meeting of shareholders of the Company (\"General Meeting\") may be distributed as dividends to the holders of our ordinary shares, subject to the appropriate record date, by the General Meeting at the proposal of our Board (or without a proposal of the Board, provided that the General Meeting passes the resolution with a majority of at least two-thirds of the votes cast). We will have power to make distributions to shareholders only to the extent that our equity exceeds the sum of the paid and called-up portion of our share capital and the reserves that must be maintained in accordance with provisions of Dutch law or our Articles of Association. In addition, payments of dividends are restricted by our Senior Secured Credit Facility. We may not make any distribution of profits on shares held by us as treasury shares and such treasury shares will not be taken into account when determining the profit entitlement of our shareholders. Our Board determines whether and how much of the profit shown in the adopted annual accounts it will reserve and the manner and date of any dividend. All calculations to determine the amounts available for dividends will be based on our company-only annual accounts, which may be different from our consolidated financial statements, such as those included in this annual report. In addition, our Board is permitted, subject to certain requirements, to declare interim dividends without the approval of the shareholders. We may reclaim any distributions, whether interim or not interim, made in contravention of certain restrictions of Dutch law from shareholders that knew or should have known that such distribution was not permissible. In addition, on the basis of Dutch case law, if after a distribution we are not able to pay our due and collectable debts, then our shareholders or directors who at the time of the distribution knew or reasonably should have foreseen that result may be liable to our creditors. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends and we have no plan to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain our capital resources for reinvestment in our business.. Since we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends will be dependent upon the financial condition, liquidity and results of operations of, and our receipt of dividends, loans or other funds from, our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to make funds available to us. In addition, there are various statutory, regulatory and contractual prohibitions and other limitations and business considerations on the extent, if any, to which our subsidiaries may pay dividends, make loans or otherwise provide funds to us.. Each of TPG Global, LLC, Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C. and Hyatt own a significant portion of our ordinary shares and have representation on our Board. Any of these investors may have interests that differ from those of other shareholders.. Approximately 7.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares are beneficially owned by TPG Pace Sponsor, LLC (\"Pace Sponsor\"), an affiliate of TPG Global, LLC. In addition, three of our directors were designated by Pace Sponsor. As a result, Pace Sponsor may be able to significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted for director action, subject to our directors' obligation to act in the interest of all of our stakeholders, and for shareholder action, including the designation and appointment of our Board (and committees thereof) and approval of significant corporate transactions, including business combinations, consolidations and mergers. So long as Pace Sponsor and/or its affiliates continue to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of our outstanding equity interests and one or more individuals affiliated with Pace Sponsor are members of our Board and/or one or more committees thereof, Pace Sponsor may be able to exert substantial influence on us and may be able to exercise its influence in a manner that is not in the interests of our other stakeholders. Pace Sponsor's influence over our management could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. Additionally, Pace Sponsor is in the business of making investments in companies and owning real estate, and Pace Sponsor may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or that supply us with goods and services. Pace Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to (or competitive with) our business, and as a result those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Prospective investors in our ordinary shares should consider that the interests of Pace Sponsor may differ from their interests in material respects.. Approximately 27.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares are beneficially owned by Cabana Investors B.V. and Playa Four Pack, L.L.C. (collectively, \"Cabana\"), each of which is an affiliate of Farallon Capital Management, L.L.C. (\"Farallon\"). In addition, two of our directors were designated by Cabana. As a result, Cabana may be able to significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted for director action, subject to our directors' obligation to act in the interest of all of our stakeholders, and for shareholder action, including the designation and appointment of our Board (and committees thereof) and approval of significant corporate transactions, including business combinations, consolidations and mergers. So long as Cabana and/or its affiliates continue to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of our outstanding equity interests and one or more individuals designated by Cabana are members of our Board and/or one or more committees thereof, both Cabana and Farallon may be able to exert substantial influence on us and may be. 31. able to exercise its influence in a manner that is not in the interests of our other stakeholders. Cabana's concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. Additionally, Farallon-advised funds, including those that are in the business of making investments in companies and owning other hotels, may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or that supply us with goods and services. Farallon may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to, or competitive with, our business, and as a result those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Prospective investors in our ordinary shares should consider that the interests of Farallon and Cabana may differ from their interests in material respects.. Approximately 10.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares are beneficially owned by HI Holdings Playa B.V. (\"HI Holdings Playa\"), an affiliate of Hyatt. In addition, one of our directors was designated by HI Holdings Playa and is currently an employee of Hyatt. As a result, HI Holdings Playa and Hyatt may be able to influence the outcome of matters submitted for director action, subject to our directors' obligation to act in the interest of all of our stakeholders, and for shareholder action, including the designation and appointment of our Board (and committees thereof) and approval of significant corporate transactions, including business combinations, consolidations and mergers. HI Holdings Playa's concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for our ordinary shares. Additionally, Hyatt owns and franchises other hotels, and Hyatt may from time to time acquire and hold interests in, subject to the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement, businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or that supply us and/or its subsidiaries with goods and services. Hyatt may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to or competitive with our business, and as a result those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Also, the loss of any Hyatt Resort Agreement or the Hyatt Strategic Alliance Agreement is likely to have a material adverse effect on us. Prospective investors in our ordinary shares should consider that the interests of Hyatt and HI Holdings Playa may differ from their interests in material respects.. Provisions of our Articles of Association or Dutch corporate law might deter or discourage acquisition bids for us that shareholders might consider to be favorable and prevent or frustrate any attempt to replace or remove our Board at the time of such acquisition bid.. Certain provisions of our Articles of Association may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our Board. These provisions include:. • A provision that our directors are appointed by our General Meeting at the binding nomination of our Board. Such binding nomination may only be overruled by the General Meeting by a resolution adopted by at least a majority of the votes cast, if such votes represent more than 50% of our issued share capital.. • A provision that our shareholders at a General Meeting may suspend or remove directors at any time. A resolution of our General Meeting to suspend or remove a director may be passed by a majority of the votes cast, provided that the resolution is based on a proposal by our Board. In the absence of a proposal by our Board, a resolution of our General Meeting to suspend or remove a director shall require a vote of at least a majority of the votes cast, if such votes represent more than 50% of our issued share capital.. • A requirement that certain actions can only be taken by the General Meeting with at least two-thirds of the votes cast, unless such resolution is passed at the proposal by our Board, including an amendment of our Articles of Association, the issuance of shares or the granting of rights to subscribe for shares, the limitation or exclusion of preemptive rights, the reduction of our issued share capital, the application for bankruptcy, the making of a distribution from our profits or reserves on our ordinary shares, the making of a distribution in the form of shares in our capital or in the form of assets, instead of cash, the entering into of a merger or demerger, our dissolution and the designation or granting of authorizations such as the authorization to issue shares and to limit or exclude preemptive rights. Our General Meeting adopted a resolution to grant such authorizations to our Board.. • A provision prohibiting (a) a \"Brand Owner\" (which generally means a franchisor, licensor or owner of a hotel concept or brand that has at least 12 all-inclusive resorts and that competes with any Hyatt All-Inclusive Resort Brand resort) from acquiring our ordinary shares such that the Brand Owner (together with its affiliates) acquires beneficial ownership in excess of 15% of our outstanding shares, or (b) a \"Restricted Brand Company\" from acquiring our ordinary shares such that the Restricted Brand Company (together with its affiliates) acquires beneficial ownership in excess of 5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Upon becoming aware of either share cap being exceeded, we will send a notice to such shareholder informing such shareholder of a violation of this provision and granting the shareholder two weeks to dispose of such excess ordinary shares to an unaffiliated third party. Such notice will immediately trigger the transfer obligation. 32. and suspend the right to attend our General Meeting and voting rights (together, \"Shareholder Rights\") of the shares exceeding the cap. If such excess shares are not disposed by such time, (i) the Shareholder Rights on all shares held by the shareholder exceeding the share cap will be suspended until the transfer obligations have been complied with, (ii) we will be irrevocably authorized under our Articles of Association to transfer the excess shares to a foundation until sold to an unaffiliated third party and (iii) such foundation shall issue depositary receipts for the ordinary shares concerned to the relevant Brand Owner or Restricted Brand Company for as long as those ordinary shares are held by the foundation.. Such provisions could discourage a takeover attempt and impair the ability of shareholders to benefit from a change in control and realize any potential change of control premium. This may adversely affect the market price of the ordinary shares.. Our General Meeting has authorized our Board to issue and grant rights to subscribe for our ordinary shares, up to the amount of the authorized share capital (from time to time) and limit or exclude preemptive rights on those shares, in each case for a period of five years from the date of the resolution. Accordingly, an issue of our ordinary shares may make it more difficult for a shareholder or potential acquirer to obtain control over our General Meeting or us.. Provisions of our franchise agreements with Hyatt might deter acquisition bids for us that shareholders might consider to be favorable and/or give Hyatt the right to terminate such agreements if certain persons obtain and retain more than a specified percentage of our ordinary shares.. Certain provisions of our franchise agreements with Hyatt may make it more difficult for certain third parties to acquire more than a specified percentage of issued ordinary shares. Our franchise agreements with Hyatt and our Articles of Association both contain a provision prohibiting (a) a Brand Owner from acquiring issued ordinary shares such that the Brand Owner (together with its affiliates) acquires beneficial ownership in excess of 15% of issued and outstanding ordinary shares, and (b) a Restricted Brand Company from acquiring issued ordinary shares such that the Restricted Brand Company (together with its affiliates) acquires beneficial ownership in excess of 5% of issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Upon becoming aware of either share cap being exceeded, we must send a notice to such shareholder informing such shareholder of a violation of this provision and granting the shareholder two weeks to dispose of such excess ordinary shares to an unaffiliated third party. Such notice will immediately trigger the transfer obligation and suspend the Shareholder Rights of ordinary shares exceeding the share cap. If such excess ordinary shares are not disposed by such time, (i) the Shareholder Rights on all ordinary shares held by the shareholder exceeding the share cap will be suspended until the transfer obligations have been complied with and (ii) we will be irrevocably authorized under our Articles of Association to transfer the excess ordinary shares to a foundation until sold to an unaffiliated third party. Our franchise agreements provide that, if the excess ordinary shares are not transferred to a foundation or an unaffiliated third party within 30 days following the earlier of the date on which a public filing is made with respect to either share cap being exceeded and the date we become aware of either share cap being exceeded, Hyatt will have the right to terminate all (but not less than all) of its franchise agreements with us by providing the notice specified in the franchise agreement to us and we will be subject to liquidated damage payments to Hyatt. In the event that any Brand Owner or Restricted Brand Company acquires any ownership interest in us, we will be required to establish and maintain controls to protect the confidentiality of certain Hyatt information and will provide Hyatt with a detailed description and evidence of such controls.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, shareholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which is likely to negatively affect our business and the market price of our ordinary shares.. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in our implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing conducted by us, or any testing conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. In fact, such testing has revealed a deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting that has been deemed to be a material weakness. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which is likely to negatively affect our business and the market price of our ordinary shares.. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, for as long as we are an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"). An independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls could detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation.. 33. The market price and trading volume of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly.. The stock markets, including the NASDAQ Capital Market (\"NASDAQ\") on which our ordinary shares are traded under the symbol \"PLYA\" have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Even if an active, liquid and orderly trading market develops and is sustained for our ordinary shares, the market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly. In addition, the trading volume in our ordinary shares may fluctuate widely and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our ordinary shares declines significantly, you generally will be unable to resell your ordinary shares at or above the market price of our ordinary shares and may be unable to resell your ordinary shares above the market price at which you purchased such ordinary shares. We cannot assure you that the market price of our ordinary shares will not fluctuate widely or decline significantly in the future in response to a number of factors, including, among others, the following:. • the realization of any of the risk factors presented in this annual report;. • actual or anticipated differences in our estimates, or in the estimates of analysts, for our revenues, Adjusted EBITDA, results of operations, level of indebtedness, liquidity or financial condition;. • additions and departures of key personnel;. • failure to comply with the requirements of the NASDAQ;. • failure to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or other laws or regulations;. • future issuances, sales or resales, or anticipated issuances, sales or resales, of our ordinary shares;. • publication of research reports about us, our resorts, the all-inclusive segment of the lodging industry or the lodging industry generally;. • the performance and market valuations of other similar companies;. • broad disruptions in the financial markets, including sudden disruptions in the credit markets;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • actual, potential or perceived control, accounting or reporting problems, including a failure to remediate our current material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in a timely manner; and. • changes in accounting principles, policies and guidelines.. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their shares. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Future issuances of debt securities and equity securities may adversely affect us, including the market price of our ordinary shares and may be dilutive to existing shareholders.. In the future, we may incur debt or issue equity ranking senior to our ordinary shares. Those securities will generally have priority upon liquidation. Such securities also may be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting its operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our ordinary shares. Because our decision to issue debt or equity in the future will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, nature or success of our future capital raising efforts. As a result, future capital raising efforts may reduce the market price of our ordinary shares and be dilutive to existing shareholders.. Our shareholders may not have any preemptive rights in respect of future issuances of our ordinary shares.. In the event of an increase in our share capital, our ordinary shareholders are generally entitled under Dutch law to full preemptive rights, unless these rights are limited or excluded either by a resolution of the General Meeting or by a resolution of our Board (if our Board has been authorized by the General Meeting for this purpose), or where shares are issued to our employees or a group company (i.e., certain affiliates, subsidiaries or related companies) or where shares are issued against a non-cash contribution, or. 34. in case of an exercise of a previously acquired right to subscribe for shares. The same preemptive rights apply when rights to subscribe for shares are granted.. Preemptive rights may be excluded by our Board on the basis of the irrevocable authorization of the General Meeting to our Board for a period of five years from the date of this authorization with respect to the issue of our ordinary shares up to the amount of the authorized share capital (from time to time). The General Meeting has delegated the authority to issue our ordinary shares and grant rights to purchase our ordinary shares up to the amount of our authorized share capital (from time to time) to our Board for that same period.. Accordingly, holders of our ordinary shares may not have any preemptive rights in connection with, and may be diluted by an issue of our ordinary shares and it may be more difficult for a shareholder to obtain control over our General Meeting. Certain of our shareholders outside the Netherlands, in particular, U.S. shareholders, may not be allowed to exercise preemptive rights to which they are entitled, if any, unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is declared effective with respect to our ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements is available.. We are not obligated to and do not comply with all the best practice provisions of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the \"DCGC\"). This could adversely affect your rights as a shareholder.. As we are incorporated under Dutch law and our ordinary shares have been listed on a government-recognized stock exchange (i.e., the NASDAQ), we are subject to the DCGC. The DCGC contains both principles and best practice provisions for our Board, shareholders and the General Meeting, financial reporting, auditors, disclosure compliance and enforcement standards.. The DCGC is based on a \"comply or explain\" principle. Accordingly, we are required to disclose in our annual management report publicly filed in the Netherlands, whether or not we are complying with the various provisions of the DCGC. If we do not comply with one or more of those provisions (e.g., because of a conflicting NASDAQ requirement or U.S. market practice), we are required to explain the reasons for such non-compliance in our annual management report.. We acknowledge the importance of good corporate governance. However, we do not comply with all the provisions of the DCGC, to a large extent because such provisions conflict with or are inconsistent with the corporate governance rules of the NASDAQ and U.S. securities laws that apply to us, or because we believe such provisions do not reflect customary practices of global companies listed on the NASDAQ. This could adversely affect your rights as a shareholder and you may not have the same level of protection as a shareholder in a Dutch company that fully complies with the DCGC.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced SEC reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly and the trading volume could be more volatile.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (\"JOBS Act\"). We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" until the earliest to occur of (i) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following September 16, 2020, the fifth anniversary of Pace's initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our ordinary shares that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our prior second fiscal quarter, and (ii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. The JOBS Act also provides that an \"emerging growth company\" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. However, we have chosen to \"opt out\" of this extended transition period and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for all public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we intend to rely on certain of these exemptions and benefits under the JOBS Act. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active, liquid and/or orderly trading market for our ordinary shares and the market price and trading volume of our ordinary shares may be more volatile and decline significantly.. We are incurring and will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we are incurring and will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ, the Dutch Financial Supervision Act, the Dutch Financial Reporting Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht), the DCGC and other applicable securities rules and rules and regulations promulgated under the foregoing impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and. 35. maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. These rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices and control environment process improvements.. If, based on Mexican law, the accounting value of our ordinary shares is derived more than 50% from property in Mexico, it could result in the imposition of tax on a selling shareholder who is not eligible to claim benefits under the income tax treaty between Mexico and the United States or under any other favorable income tax treaty with Mexico.. According to article 161 of the Income Tax Law of Mexico, the transfer by a nonresident of Mexico of shares in an entity where the accounting value of the transferred shares is derived, directly or indirectly, from more than 50% from immovable property located in Mexico could be subject to Mexican income tax. The applicable Mexican law does not provide for the method to be followed in making this calculation. The income tax rate in Mexico for the disposal of shares by nonresidents is currently either 25% of the gross sale proceeds or, if certain conditions are met, 35% of the net gain. Withholding of 25% of gross sale proceeds is required of the buyer only if the latter is a Mexican resident. A Mexican nonresident subject to tax under article 161 may be eligible to claim exemption from taxation or a reduced tax rate under an applicable income tax treaty with Mexico, such as the income tax treaty between Mexico and the United States. A determination of whether the accounting value of our ordinary shares is derived, directly or indirectly, more than 50% from immovable property located in Mexico is subject to interpretations of the applicable law and will be affected by various factors with regard to us that may change over time. If, at the time of a transfer of our ordinary shares, the accounting value of our ordinary shares is derived, directly or indirectly, from more than 50% from immovable property located in Mexico and article 161 were applied to such transfer, it could result in the imposition of the above-mentioned tax on a selling shareholder who is not eligible to claim benefits under the income tax treaty between Mexico and the United States or under any other favorable income tax treaty with Mexico."
