[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. A deterioration of national or local economic conditions could reduce the Company’s profitability.. The Company’s lending operations and its customers are primarily located in the eastern region of Northern California. A significant downturn in the national economy or the local economy due to agricultural commodity prices, real estate prices, public policy decisions, natural disaster, drought or other factors could result in a decline in the local economy in general, which could in turn negatively impact the Company.. The majority of the Company’s assets are loans, which if not repaid would result in losses to the Bank.. The Bank, like other lenders, is subject to credit risk, which is the risk of losing principal or interest due to borrowers’ failure to repay loans in accordance with their terms. Underwriting and documentation controls cannot mitigate all credit risk. A downturn in the economy or the real estate market in the Company’s market areas or a rapid increase in interest rates could have a negative effect on collateral values and borrowers’ ability to repay. To the extent loans are not paid timely by borrowers, the loans are placed on non-accrual status, thereby reducing interest income. Further, under these circumstances, an additional provision for loan and lease losses or unfunded commitments may be required. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “Analysis of Asset Quality and Allowance for Loan Losses”.. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual loan losses, the Company’s profitability could be reduced.. The risk of loan losses is inherent in the lending business. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon the Company’s actual losses over a relevant time period and management’s assessment of all relevant qualitative factors that may cause future loss experience to differ from its historical loss experience. Although the Company maintains a rigorous process for determining the allowance for loan losses, it can give no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future loan losses. If the allowance for loan losses is not adequate to absorb future losses, or if bank regulatory agencies require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses, earnings could be significantly and adversely impacted.. 11. Table of Contents. A deterioration in the real estate market could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 72% of the Company’s total loan portfolio is secured by real estate, the majority of which is commercial real estate. Increases in commercial and consumer delinquency levels or declines in real estate market values would require increased net charge-offs and increases in the allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects.. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce profitability.. The Company’s earnings depend largely upon net interest income, which is the difference between the total interest income earned on interest earning assets (primarily loans and investment securities) and the total interest expense incurred on interest bearing liabilities (primarily deposits and borrowed funds). The interest earned on assets and paid on liabilities are affected principally by direct competition, and general economic conditions at the state and national level and other factors beyond the Company’s control such as actions of the FRB, the general supply of money in the economy, legislative tax policies, governmental budgetary matters, and other state and federal economic policies. Although the Company maintains a rigorous process for managing the impact of possible interest rate fluctuations on earnings, the Company can provide no assurance that its management efforts will prevent earnings from being significantly and adversely impacted by changes in interest rates.. The Company could be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may not be available on terms that are favorable to the Company.. Federal and state bank regulatory authorities require the Company and the Bank to maintain adequate levels of capital to support their operations. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital if and as needed depends on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside the Company’s control, and on the Company’s financial performance. Accordingly, the Company may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms that are acceptable to the Company. If the Company is unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could be required to curtail its growth strategy or reduce the levels of assets owned. In addition, although the Company and the Bank are currently well-capitalized under applicable regulatory frameworks, bank regulators are authorized and sometimes required to impose a wide range of requirements, conditions, and restrictions on banks and bank holding companies that fail to maintain adequate capital levels.. Drought conditions in California could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business.. In recent years, California has experienced a severe drought. However, during 2016 and the first quarter of 2017 much of California has experienced significant rain. A significant portion of the Company’s borrowers are involved in or are dependent on the agricultural industry in California, which requires water. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 12% of the Company’s loans were categorized as agricultural loans. As a result of the drought, there have been governmental proposals concerning the distribution or rationing of water. If the amount of water available to agriculture becomes scarcer due to drought or rationing, growers may not be able to continue to produce agricultural products profitably, which could force some out of business. Although many of the Company’s customers are not directly involved in agriculture, they could be impacted by difficulties in the agricultural industry because many jobs and businesses in the Company’s market areas are related to the production of agricultural products. Therefore, the drought could adversely impact the Company’s loan portfolio, business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company faces substantial competition from larger banks and other financial institutions.. The Company faces substantial competition for deposits and loans. Competition for deposits primarily comes from other commercial banks, savings institutions, thrift and loan associations, money market and mutual funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes from other commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, thrift and loan associations and other financial intermediaries. Larger competitors, by virtue of their larger capital resources, have substantially greater lending limits and marketing resources than the Company. In addition, they have greater resources and may be able to offer longer maturities or lower rates. The Company’s competitors may also provide certain services for their customers, including trust and international banking that the Company is only able to offer indirectly through correspondent relationships. Ultimately, competition can reduce the Company’s profitability, as well as make it more difficult to increase the size of its loan portfolio and deposit base.. 12. Table of Contents. There are risks associated with the Company’s growth strategy.. During the past two years, the Company completed the purchase and assumption of a branch office in Redding, California, opened a branch office in Reno, Nevada and established loan production offices in Phoenix, Arizona; Seattle, Washington and Klamath Falls, Oregon. The Company may engage in additional acquisition activity and open additional offices in the future to expand the Company’s markets or further its growth strategy. There is no assurance that future acquisitions or offices will be successful. Further, growth may strain the Company’s administrative, managerial, financial and operational resources and increase demands on its systems and controls. If the Company pursues its growth strategy too aggressively, fails to attract qualified personnel, control costs or maintain asset quality, or if factors beyond management’s control divert attention away from its business operations, the Company’s pursuit of its growth strategy could have a material adverse impact on its existing business.. The Company relies on key executives and personnel and the loss of any of them could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s prospects.. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out the Company’s strategies is often lengthy. The Company’s success depends to a significant degree upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing, compliance and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of its management and personnel. In particular, the Company’s success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives and certain other employees.. Security breaches and technological disruptions could damage the Company’s reputation and profitability. The Company’s business is highly reliant on third party vendors and its ability to manage the operational risks associated with outsourcing those services.. The Company’s electronic banking activities expose it to possible liability and loss of reputation should an unauthorized party gain access to confidential customer information. Despite its considerable efforts and investment to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data, the Company cannot fully guarantee that these precautions will protect its systems from future compromises or breaches of its security measures. Although the Company has developed systems and processes that are designed to recognize and assist in preventing security breaches (and periodically test its security), failure to protect against or mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect its ability to offer and grow its online services, constitute a breach of privacy or other laws, result in costly litigation and loss of customer relationships, negatively impact the Bank’s reputation, and could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may also incur substantial increases in costs in an effort to minimize or mitigate cyber security risks and to respond to cyber incidents.. The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout the Company’s business. Integral to the Company’s performance is the continued efficacy of the Company’s technology and information systems, operational infrastructure and relationships with third parties and its colleagues in its day-to-day and ongoing operations. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects us to risks that may vary in size, scale and scope. This includes, but is not limited to, operational or systems failures, disruption of client operations and activities, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support as expected, as well as, the loss of key colleagues or failure on the part of key colleagues to perform properly.. Additionally, the Company outsources a large portion of its data processing to third parties which may encounter technological or other difficulties that may significantly affect the Company’s ability to process and account for customer transactions. These vendors provide services that support its operations, including the storage and processing of sensitive consumer and business customer data, as well as its sales efforts. A cyber security breach of a vendor’s system may result in theft of the Company’s data or disruption of business processes.  In most cases, the Company will remain primarily liable to its customers for losses arising from a breach of a vendor’s data security system. The Company relies on its outsourced service providers to implement and maintain prudent cyber security controls.  The loss of these vendor relationships could disrupt the services the Company provides to its customers and cause us to incur significant expense in connection with replacing these services.. 13. Table of Contents. The Company may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.. The Company is subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision. In the past, the Company’s business has been increasingly affected by these regulations, and this trend is likely to continue into the future. Many of these laws are subject to interpretation and changing regulatory approaches to supervision and enforcement. The Company maintains systems and procedures designed to ensure that it complies with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. The Company may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations. The Company may also suffer other negative consequences resulting from findings of noncompliance with laws and regulations, that may also damage its reputation, and this in turn might materially affect its business and results of operations. Further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines, restitution or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance.. The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports it files under the Exchange Act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. The Company believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in its control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting and the restatement of previously filed financial statements.. The price of the Company’s common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of the Company’s common stock may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside its control. Among the factors that could affect the Company’s stock price are:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in the Company’s operating results and financial condition;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tresearch reports and recommendations by financial analysts;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspeculation in the press or investment community;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions by the Company or its competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactions by institutional shareholders;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfluctuations in the stock prices and operating results of its competitors;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tanticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdomestic and international economic factors unrelated to its performance.. Significant decline in the Company’s stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation.. 14. Table of Contents. The trading volume of the Company’s common stock is limited.. Although the Company’s common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, trading volume to date has been relatively modest. The limited trading market for the Company’s common stock may lead to exaggerated fluctuations in market prices and possible market inefficiencies compared to more actively traded securities. It may also make it more difficult for investors to sell the Company’s common stock at desired prices, especially for holders seeking to dispose of a large number of shares of stock.. The Company depends primarily on the operations of the Bank to repay its indebtedness and fund its operations. The Company’s ability to pay any dividends or repurchase any of its shares in the future will also depend on the success of the Bank’s operations.. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiary, the Bank, and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends paid by the Bank. There are legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank may extend credit, pay dividends or otherwise supply funds to, or engage in transactions with, the Company. The Company’s inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Disruptions in market conditions may adversely impact the fair value of available-for-sale investment securities.. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) require the Company to carry its available-for-sale investment securities at fair value on its balance sheet. Unrealized gains or losses on these securities, reflecting the difference between the fair market value and the amortized cost, net of its tax effect, are reported as a component of shareholders’ equity. In certain instances GAAP requires recognition through earnings of declines in the fair value of securities that are deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. Changes in the fair value of these securities may result from a number of circumstances that are beyond the Company’s control, such as changes in interest rates, the financial condition of government sponsored enterprises or insurers of municipal bonds, changes in demand for these securities as a result of economic conditions, or reduced market liquidity. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to loss recognition that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income and capital levels.. Damage to the Company’s reputation could significantly harm the Company’s business and prospects.. The Company’s reputation is an important asset. The Company’s relationship with many of its customers is predicated upon its reputation as a high quality provider of financial services that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance. The Company’s ability to attract and retain customers, investors and employees depends upon external perceptions. Damage to its reputation among existing and potential customers, investors and employees could cause significant harm to the Company’s business and prospects and may arise from numerous sources, including litigation or regulatory actions, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, lending practices, inadequate protection of customer information, sales and marketing efforts, compliance failures, unethical behavior and the misconduct of employees. Adverse developments in the banking industry may also, by association, negatively impact the Company’s reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. The Company has policies and procedures in place that seek to protect its reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding the Company’s business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors, and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation.. The markets in which the Company operates are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters.. Most of the Company’s offices are located in California. Also, most of the real and personal properties securing the Company’s loans are located in California. California is prone to earthquakes, brush fires, flooding and other natural disasters. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to its own properties, if there is a major earthquake, brush fires, flood or other natural disaster, the Company faces the risk that many of the Company’s borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. Therefore, a major earthquake, brush fire, flood or other natural disaster in California could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Table of Contents. The Company is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to real properties that is may acquire.. If the Company’s borrowers are unable to meet their loan repayment obligations, it will initiate foreclosure proceedings with respect to and may take actions to acquire title to the personal and real property that collateralized their loans. As an owner of such properties, the Company could become subject to environmental liabilities and incur substantial costs for any property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up that may be required due to any environmental contamination that may be found to exist at any of those properties, even though it did not engage in the activities that led to such contamination. In addition, if the Company were the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it could be subject to common law claims by third parties seeking damages for environmental contamination emanating from the site. If the Company were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities or costs, its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected."                                                                                                   
