[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS.. Certain risks and uncertainties that could have a significant impact on PGE's business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, or that may cause the Company's actual results to vary materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, include those set forth below.. Recovery of PGE's costs is subject to regulatory review and approval, and the inability to recover costs may adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. The prices that PGE charges for its retail services, as authorized by the OPUC, are a major factor in determining the Company's operating income, financial position, liquidity, and credit ratings. As a general matter, PGE seeks to recover in customer prices most of the costs incurred in connection with the operation of its business, including, among other things, costs related to capital projects (such as the construction of new facilities or the modification of existing facilities), the costs of compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements and the costs of damage from storms and other natural disasters. However, there can be no assurance that such recovery will be granted. The OPUC has the authority to disallow the recovery of any costs that it considers imprudently incurred. Although the OPUC is required to establish customer prices that are fair, just and reasonable, it has significant discretion in the interpretation of this standard.. PGE attempts to manage its costs at levels consistent with the OPUC approved prices. However, if the Company is unable to do so, or if such cost management results in increased operational risk, the Company's financial and operating results could be adversely affected.. Economic conditions that result in reduced demand for electricity and impair the financial stability of some of PGE's customers, could affect the Company's results of operations.. Unfavorable economic conditions in Oregon may result in reduced demand for electricity. Such reductions in demand could adversely affect PGE's results of operations and cash flows. Economic conditions could also result in an increased level of uncollectible customer accounts and cause the Company's vendors and service providers to experience cash flow problems and be unable to perform under existing or future contracts.. 22. Table of Contents. Market prices for power and natural gas are subject to forces that are often not predictable and which can result in price volatility and general market disruption, adversely affecting PGE's costs and ability to manage its energy portfolio and procure required energy supply, which ultimately could have an adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and results of operations.. As part of its normal business operations, PGE purchases power and natural gas in the open market under short- and long-term contracts, which may specify variable prices or volumes. Market prices for power and natural gas are influenced primarily by factors related to supply and demand. These factors generally include the adequacy of generating capacity, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, hydroelectric and wind generation levels, prices and availability of fuel sources for generation, disruptions or constraints to transmission facilities, weather conditions, economic growth, and changes in technology.. Volatility in these markets can affect the availability, price and demand for power and natural gas. Disruption in power and natural gas markets could result in a deterioration of market liquidity, increase the risk of counterparty default, affect regulatory and legislative processes in unpredictable ways, affect wholesale power prices, and impair PGE's ability to manage its energy portfolio. Changes in power and natural gas prices can also affect the fair value of derivative instruments and cash requirements to purchase power and natural gas. If power and natural gas prices decrease from those contained in the Company's existing purchased power and natural gas agreements, PGE may be required to provide increased collateral, which could adversely affect the Company's liquidity. Conversely, if power and natural gas prices rise, especially during periods when the Company requires greater-than-expected volumes that must be purchased at market or short-term prices, PGE could incur greater costs than originally estimated.. The risk of volatility in power costs is partially mitigated through the AUT and the PCAM. Application of the PCAM requires that PGE absorb certain power cost increases before the Company is allowed to recover any amount from customers. Accordingly, the PCAM is expected to only partially mitigate the potentially adverse financial impacts of forced generating plant outages, reduced hydro and wind availability, interruptions in fuel supplies, and volatile wholesale energy prices.. The effects of weather on electricity usage can adversely affect results of operations.. Weather conditions can adversely affect PGE's revenues and costs, impacting the Company's results of operations. Variations in temperatures can affect customer demand for electricity, with warmer-than-normal winter seasons or cooler-than-normal summer seasons reducing the demand for energy. Weather conditions are the dominant cause of usage variations from normal seasonal patterns, particularly for residential customers. Severe weather can also disrupt energy delivery and damage the Company's transmission and distribution system.. Rapid increases in load requirements resulting from unexpected adverse weather changes, particularly if coupled with transmission constraints, could adversely impact PGE's cost and ability to meet the energy needs of its customers. Conversely, rapid decreases in load requirements could result in the sale of excess energy at depressed market prices.. Forced outages at PGE's generating plants can increase the cost of power required to serve customers because the cost of replacement power purchased in the wholesale market generally exceeds the Company's cost of generation.. Forced outages at the Company's generating plants could result in power costs greater than those included in customer prices. As indicated above, application of the Company's PCAM could help mitigate adverse financial impacts of such outages; however, the cost sharing features of the mechanism do not provide full recovery in customer prices. Inability to recover such costs in future prices could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. The construction of new facilities, or modifications to existing facilities, is subject to risks that could result in the disallowance of certain costs for recovery in customer prices or higher operating costs.. PGE supplements its own generation with wholesale power purchases to meet its retail load requirement. In addition, long-term increases in both the number of customers and demand for energy will require continued expansion and upgrade of PGE's generation, transmission, and distribution systems. Construction of new facilities and modifications to existing facilities could be affected by various factors, including unanticipated delays and cost increases and the failure to obtain, or delay in obtaining, necessary permits from state or federal agencies or tribal entities, which could result in failure to complete the projects and the disallowance of certain costs in the rate determination process. In addition, failure to complete construction projects according to specifications could result in reduced plant efficiency, equipment failure, and plant performance that falls below expected levels, which could increase operating costs.. Adverse changes in PGE's credit ratings could negatively affect its access to the capital markets and its cost of borrowed funds.. Access to capital markets is important to PGE's ability to operate its business and complete its capital projects. Credit rating agencies evaluate the Company's credit ratings on a periodic basis and when certain events occur. A ratings downgrade could increase fees on PGE's revolving credit facilities and letter of credit facilities, increasing the cost of funding day-to-day working capital requirements, and could also result in higher interest rates on future long-term debt. A ratings downgrade could also restrict the Company's access to the commercial paper market, a principal source of short-term financing, or result in higher interest costs.. In addition, if Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and/or S&P Global Ratings (S&P) reduce their rating on PGE's unsecured debt to below investment grade, the Company could be subject to requests by certain wholesale counterparties to post additional performance assurance collateral, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's liquidity.. PGE is subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain, and resolution unfavorable to PGE could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.. From time to time in the normal course of its business, PGE is subject to various regulatory proceedings, lawsuits, claims, and other matters, which could result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. These matters are subject to many uncertainties, the ultimate outcome of which management cannot predict. The final resolution of certain matters in which PGE is involved could require that the Company incur expenditures over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have an adverse effect on its cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, the terms of resolution could require the Company to change its business practices and procedures, which could also have an adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position, or results of operations.. There are certain pending legal and regulatory proceedings, such as the remediation efforts related to the Portland Harbor site and the Carty related litigation and cost recovery, which may have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows for future reporting periods. For additional information, see Item 3. - \"Legal Proceedings\" and Note 17, Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. - \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". 24. Table of Contents. Reduced river flows and unfavorable wind conditions can adversely affect generation from hydroelectric and wind generating resources. The Company could be required to replace energy expected from these sources with higher cost power from other facilities or with wholesale market purchases, which could have an adverse effect on results of operations.. PGE derives a significant portion of its power supply from its own hydroelectric facilities and through long-term purchase contracts with certain public utility districts in the state of Washington. Regional rainfall and snow pack levels affect river flows and the resulting amount of energy generated by these facilities. Shortfalls in energy expected from lower cost hydroelectric generating resources would require increased energy from the Company's other generating resources and/or power purchases in the wholesale market, which could have an adverse effect on results of operations.. PGE also derives a portion of its power supply from wind generating resources, for which the output is dependent upon wind conditions. Unfavorable wind conditions could require increased reliance on power from the Company's thermal generating resources or power purchases in the wholesale market, both of which could have an adverse effect on results of operations.. Although the application of the PCAM could help mitigate adverse financial effects from any decrease in power provided by hydroelectric and wind generating resources, full recovery of any increase in power costs is not assured. Inability to fully recover such costs in future prices could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations, as well as a reduction in renewable energy credits and loss of production tax credits related to wind generating resources.. Capital and credit market conditions could adversely affect the Company's access to capital, cost of capital, and ability to execute its strategic plan as currently envisioned.. Access to capital and credit markets is important to PGE's ability to operate. The Company expects to issue debt and equity securities, as necessary, to fund its future capital requirements. In addition, contractual commitments and regulatory requirements may limit the Company's ability to delay or terminate certain projects.. If the capital and credit market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world deteriorate, the Company's future cost of debt and equity capital, as well as access to capital markets, could be adversely affected. In addition, restrictions on PGE's ability to access capital markets could affect its ability to execute its strategic plan.. Legislative or regulatory efforts to reduce GHG emissions could lead to increased capital and operating costs and have an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations.. Future legislation or regulations could result in limitations on GHG emissions from the Company's fossil fuel-fired generation facilities. Compliance with any GHG emissions reduction requirements could require PGE to incur significant expenditures, including those related to carbon capture and sequestration technology, purchase of emission allowances and offsets, fuel switching, and the replacement of high-emitting generation facilities with lower-emitting facilities.. The cost to comply with potential GHG emissions reduction requirements is subject to significant uncertainties, including those related to: i) the timing of the implementation of emissions reduction rules; ii) required levels of emissions reductions; iii) requirements with respect to the allocation of emissions allowances; iv) the maturation, regulation, and commercialization of carbon capture and sequestration technology; and v) PGE's compliance alternatives. Although the Company cannot currently estimate the effect of future legislation or regulations on its results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, the costs of compliance with such legislation or regulations could be material.. 25. Table of Contents. Changes in tax laws may have an adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. PGE makes judgments and interpretations about the application of tax law when determining the provision for taxes. Such judgments include the timing and probability of recognition of income, deductions, and tax credits, which are subject to challenge by taxing authorities. Additionally, treatment of tax benefits and costs for ratemaking purposes could be different than what the Company anticipates or requests from the state regulatory commission, which could have a negative effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. PGE owns and operates wind generating facilities, which generate Production Tax Credits (PTCs) that PGE uses to reduce its federal tax obligations. The amount of PTCs earned depends on the level of electricity output generated and the applicable tax credit rate. A variety of operating and economic parameters, including adverse weather conditions and equipment reliability, could significantly reduce the PTCs generated by the Company's wind facilities resulting in a material adverse impact on PGE's financial condition and results of operations. These PTCs generate tax credit carryforwards that the Company plans to utilize in the future to reduce income tax obligations. If PGE cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of the tax credit carryforwards before the credits expire, the Company may incur material charges to earnings.. Under certain circumstances, banks participating in PGE's credit facilities could decline to fund advances requested by the Company or could withdraw from participation in the credit facilities.. PGE currently has a syndicated unsecured revolving credit facility with several banks for an aggregate amount of $500 million. The revolving credit facility provides a primary source of liquidity and may be used to supplement operating cash flow and as backup for commercial paper borrowings. The revolving credit facility represents commitments by the participating banks to make loans and, in certain cases, to issue letters of credit. The Company is required to make certain representations to the banks each time it requests an advance under the credit facility. However, in the event certain circumstances occur that could result in a material adverse change in the business, financial condition, or results of operations of PGE, the Company may not be able to make such representations, in which case the banks would not be required to lend. PGE is also subject to the risk that one or more of the participating banks may default on their obligation to make loans under the credit facility.. Measures required to comply with state and federal regulations related to air emissions and water discharges from thermal generating plants could result in increased capital expenditures and operating costs and reduce generating capacity, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. PGE is subject to state and federal requirements concerning air emissions and water discharges from thermal generating plants. For additional information, see the Environmental Matters section in Item 1. - \"Business.\" These requirements could adversely affect the Company's results of operations by requiring: i) the installation of additional air emissions and water discharge controls at PGE's generating plants, which could result in increased capital expenditures; and ii) changes to the Company's operations that could increase operating costs and reduce generating capacity.. Adverse capital market performance could result in reductions in the fair value of benefit plan assets and increase the Company's liabilities related to such plans. Sustained declines in the fair value of the plans' assets could result in significant increases in funding requirements, which could adversely affect PGE's liquidity and results of operations.. Performance of the capital markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under PGE's defined benefit pension plan. Sustained adverse market performance could result in lower rates of return for these assets than projected by the Company and could increase PGE's funding requirements related to the pension plan. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect PGE's liabilities under the pension plan. As interest rates decrease, the Company's liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding.. 26. Table of Contents. Performance of the capital markets also affects the fair value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company's non-qualified employee benefit plans, which include deferred compensation plans. As changes in the fair value of these assets are recorded in current earnings, decreases can adversely affect the Company's operating results. In addition, such decreases can require that PGE make additional payments to satisfy its obligations under these plans.. Development of alternative technologies may negatively impact the value of PGE's generation facilities.. A basic premise of PGE's business is that generating electricity at central generation facilities achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at a relatively low price. Many companies and organizations conduct research and development activities to seek improvements in alternative technologies, such as fuel cells, photovoltaic (solar) cells, micro-turbines, and other forms of distributed generation. It is possible that advances in such technologies will reduce the cost of alternative methods of electricity production to a level that is equal to or below that of central thermal and wind generation facilities. Such a development could limit the Company's future growth opportunities and limit growth in demand for PGE's electric service.. Failure of PGE's wholesale suppliers to perform their contractual obligations could adversely affect the Company's ability to deliver electricity and increase the Company's costs.. PGE relies on suppliers to deliver natural gas, coal, and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure of suppliers to comply with such contracts in a timely manner could disrupt the Company's ability to deliver electricity and require PGE to incur additional expenses in order to meet the needs of its customers. In addition, as these contracts expire, the Company could be unable to continue to purchase natural gas, coal, or electricity on terms and conditions equivalent to those of existing agreements.. Operational changes required to comply with both existing and new environmental laws related to fish and wildlife could adversely affect PGE's results of operations.. A portion of PGE's total energy requirement is supplied with power generated from hydroelectric and wind generating resources. Operation of these facilities is subject to regulation related to the protection of fish and wildlife. The listing of various plants and species of fish, birds, and other wildlife as threatened or endangered has resulted in significant operational changes to these projects. Salmon recovery plans could include further major operational changes to the region's hydroelectric projects, including those owned by PGE and those from which the Company purchases power under long-term contracts. In addition, laws relating to the protection of migratory birds and other wildlife could impact the development and operation of transmission and distribution lines and wind projects. Also, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to such facilities, which could further increase required expenditures for salmon recovery and endangered species protection and reduce the availability of hydroelectric or wind generating resources to meet the Company's energy requirements.. PGE could be vulnerable to cyber security attacks, data security breaches, acts of terrorism, or other similar events that could disrupt its operations, require significant expenditures, or result in claims against the Company.. In the normal course of business, PGE collects, processes, and retains sensitive and confidential customer and employee information, as well as proprietary business information, and operates systems that directly impact the availability of electric power and the transmission of electric power in its service territory. Despite the security measures in place, the Company's systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to cyber security attacks, data security breaches, acts of terrorism, or other similar events that could disrupt operations or result in the release of sensitive or confidential information. Such events could cause a shutdown of service or expose PGE to liability. In addition, the Company may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. PGE maintains insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses resulting from these risks. However, insurance may not be. 27. Table of Contents. adequate to protect the Company against liability in all cases. In addition, PGE is subject to the risk that insurers will dispute or be unable to perform their obligations to the Company.. Storms and other natural disasters could damage the Company's facilities and disrupt delivery of electricity resulting in significant property loss, repair costs, and reduced customer satisfaction.. PGE has exposure to natural disasters that can cause significant damage to its generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. Such events can interrupt the delivery of electricity, increase repair and service restoration expenses, and reduce revenues. Such events, if repeated or prolonged, can also affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight. As a regulated utility, the Company is required to provide service to all customers within its service territory and generally has been afforded liability protection against customer claims related to service failures beyond the Company's reasonable control.. PGE is subject to extensive regulation that affects the Company's operations and costs.. PGE is subject to regulation by the FERC, the OPUC, and by certain federal, state, and local authorities under environmental and other laws. Such regulation significantly influences the Company's operating environment and can have an effect on many aspects of its business. Changes to regulations are ongoing, and the Company cannot predict with certainty the future course of such changes or the ultimate effect that they might have on its business. However, changes in regulations could delay or adversely affect business planning and transactions, and substantially increase the Company's costs."
