[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks, together with all the other information in this report, including our financial statements and notes thereto, before you invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually materializes, our operating results, financial condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND NEED FOR ADDITIONAL CAPITAL. We have incurred significant losses, and expect to incur substantial and increasing losses as we continue to develop and commercialize our product candidates.. We are an early stage commercial biopharmaceutical company and have recently launched our first commercial product. Bevyxxa is our only approved product, and we continue to incur significant expenses related to the planned commercialization of Bevyxxa, the funding of our ongoing and planned future clinical studies and other research and development activities for our other product candidates, including andexanet alfa, and selling, general and administrative activities. Our operating expenses increased during 2017 and we do not anticipate a decrease in the near term. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.2 billion.. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our equity securities, collaborations, including a loan from one of our collaboration partners, a sale of a royalty stream from future product sales, sales of commercial and development rights to some of our product candidates, and to a lesser extent, government grants, equipment leases, venture debt and with the benefit of tax credits made available under a federal stimulus program supporting drug development. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, including clinical studies. We anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial expenses as we:. •  establish and scale-up manufacturing capabilities and a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure to commercialize Bevyxxa and other products for which we may obtain regulatory approval, including process improvements in order to manufacture andexanet alfa at commercial scale;. •  initiate or continue clinical studies of our three most advanced product candidates;. •  continue the research and development of our product candidates;. •  seek to discover or in-license additional product candidates;. •  seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical studies; and. •  enhance operational, compliance, financial, quality and information management systems and hire more personnel, including personnel to support development of our product candidates and support our commercialization efforts.. To be profitable in the future, we must succeed in commercializing Bevyxxa and developing and commercializing other products with significant market potential. This will require us to be successful in a range of activities, including advancing our product candidates, completing clinical studies of our product candidates, obtaining regulatory approval for these product candidates and manufacturing, marketing and selling Bevyxxa and those products for which we may obtain regulatory approval. We are only in the preliminary stages of some of these activities. We may not succeed in these activities and may never generate revenue that is sufficient to be profitable in the future. Even if we are profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to achieve sustained profitability would depress the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product candidates, market our product candidates, if approved, or continue our operations.. 19. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance.. Our operating results are difficult to predict and will likely fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Due to the recent approval by the FDA of Bevyxxa and the absence of historical sales data, Bevyxxa sales will be difficult to predict from period to period and as a result, you should not rely on Bevyxxa sales results in any period as being indicative of future performance and sales of Bevyxxa may be below the expectation of securities analysts or investors in the future. We believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be affected by a variety of factors relating to Bevyxxa, and andexanet alfa and cerdulatinib if approved, including:. •  the level of demand;. •  the extent to which coverage and reimbursement is available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers, managed care programs and other third-party payors;. •  rebates, discount, other pricing concessions and fees that we may provide to integrated delivery networks, group purchasing organizations, other purchasers and pharmacy benefits managers and other third-party payors;. •  the timing, cost and level of investment in our marketing efforts to support sales;. •  the timing, cost and level of investment in our research and development activities involving approved products and product candidates;. •  the cost of manufacturing, distribution and the amount of legally mandated discounts to government entities, other discounts and rebates, product returns and other gross-to-net deductions;. •  the risk/benefit profile, cost and reimbursement of existing and potential future drugs which compete with approved products; and. •  expenditures that we will or may incur to acquire or develop additional product candidates and technologies;. In addition, from time to time, we enter into collaboration agreements with other companies that include development funding and upfront and milestone payments, and we expect that amounts earned from our collaboration agreements will continue to be an important source of revenue. These upfront and milestone payments may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and any such variance could cause a significant fluctuation in our operating results from one quarter to the next.. The cumulative effects of these factors could result in large fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly and annual operating results. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Investors should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. This variability and unpredictability could also result in our failing to meet the expectations of industry or financial analysts or investors for any period. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of analysts or investors or below any forecasts we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met any previously publicly stated revenue or earnings guidance we may provide.. 20. We will need additional funds to support our operations, and such funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, which would force us to delay, reduce or suspend our research and development programs and other operations or commercialization efforts. Raising additional capital may subject us to unfavorable terms, cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our product candidates and technologies.. We have recently launched commercial operations for our first product and are advancing multiple product candidates through the research and clinical development process. The development and commercialization of Bevyxxa and our product candidates will continue to require substantial funds. Our future financing requirements will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following:. •  product sales of Bevyxxa, and if approved for commercial marketing, our other product candidates;. •  the costs of commercialization activities, including product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution and general corporate and commercial infrastructure;. •  the timing of, and costs involved in, seeking and obtaining approvals from the FDA and other regulatory authorities;. •  the possible development of additional product candidates, including through in-licensing and acquisitions;. •  the degree and rate of market acceptance of any products launched by us or partners;. •  our ability to enter into additional collaboration, licensing, commercialization or other financing arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements;. •  the rate of progress and cost of our clinical studies; and. •  the emergence of competing technologies or other adverse market developments.. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs through a combination of public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements and other financing, marketing and distribution arrangements. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available on favorable terms.. If we raise additional capital through financing, marketing and distribution arrangements or other collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing or other financial arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish certain valuable rights to our product candidates, technologies, future revenue streams or research programs or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our stockholders' rights. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, we may be subject to covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or suspend one or more of our clinical studies, research and development programs or commercialization efforts.. 21. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMMERCIALIZATION OF BEVYXXA AND THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES. Our success depends heavily on the launch and commercialization of Bevyxxa and the approval and successful commercialization of our product candidate, andexanet alfa. Our commercialization and development of andexanet alfa and our other product candidates may not be successful. If we are unable to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.. We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources into the development and commercialization of Bevyxxa, the development of andexanet alfa and, to a lesser extent, cerdulatinib and our selective Syk inhibitor program. Our ability to generate product revenue from Bevyxxa or from other product candidates, which will not occur until after regulatory approval, if ever, will depend on the successful development, regulatory approval and eventual commercialization of our product candidates. The success of our product candidates will depend on several factors, including the following:. •  acceptance of any approved product by the medical community, third-party payors and patients;. •  our ability to reach agreement with the FDA and other regulatory authorities on the appropriate regulatory path for approval of our product candidates;. •  receipt of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar regulatory authorities outside the United States for our product candidates;. •  obtaining product indications and other labeling information that is acceptable to the medical community, third-party payors and patients;. •  our ability to manufacture product commercially at acceptable costs;. •  establishing and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements with third parties;. •  commercializing any product candidate that may be approved, whether alone or in collaboration with others;. •  effectively competing with other therapies;. •  a continued acceptable safety profile of the product following approval;. •  successful enrollment in, and completion of, clinical studies; and. •  obtaining, maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property rights and claims.. If we do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize our product candidates, which would materially harm our business.. Bevyxxa and potential future product candidates may fail to achieve the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success.. The commercial success of Bevyxxa and any potential future product candidates for which we may obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon their acceptance by the medical community and third-party payors as clinically useful, cost-effective and safe. The degree of market acceptance of any drug depends on a number of factors, such as:. •  the prevalence and severity of any side effects;. •  efficacy and potential advantages compared to alternative treatments;. •  the price we charge for our product candidates;. •  interpretations of the results of our clinical trials;. •  the willingness of physicians and healthcare organizations to change their current treatment practices;. 22. •  the willingness of hospitals and hospital systems to include our product candidates as treatment options;. •  convenience and ease of administration compared to alternative treatments;. •  the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies;. •  the willingness of the target patient population to pay for our products, including co-pays under their health coverage plans;. •  the strength of marketing and distribution support; and. •  the availability of third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement.. Failure to attain market acceptance among the medical community and third-party payors may have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. Although certain of our employees have commercialization experience, as a company we currently have only limited commercial capabilities. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to serve in our sales and marketing organization to effectively support our commercialization activities. If we are not successful in commercializing Bevyxxa or current or potential future product candidates in the event they receive regulatory approval, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses.. We currently have limited sales and distribution personnel and are in the initial stages of developing marketing capabilities for Bevyxxa. If we are unable to develop effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or through collaborations or other marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing Bevyxxa, or andexanet alfa and our other future products.. We are in the early stages of developing our sales and marketing infrastructure and have limited history of selling, marketing or distributing therapeutic products. To achieve commercial success for Bevyxxa or any current or potential product candidate, we must continue to develop a sales and marketing organization or outsource these functions to third parties. We plan to establish a hospital-based sales force in the United States and possibly other major markets and work with partners in other parts of the world to commercialize Bevyxxa globally, and andexanet alfa if it is approved. There are risks involved with both establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities and entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel.. We also may not be successful entering into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our product candidates or may be unable to do so on terms that are favorable to us. We likely will have little control over such third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively, which could damage our reputation. If we do not establish sales and marketing capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates.. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products more successfully than we do.. The development and commercialization of new therapeutic products is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to commercializing Bevyxxa and developing our current product candidates, and will face competition with respect to any products that we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future, from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. For example, several large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies currently market and sell direct or indirect anticoagulants for use in various disease states, including injectable anticoagulants for the prevention of VTE in acutely ill medical patients. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Some of these competitors are or may be attempting to develop therapeutics for our target indications.. 23. In addition, many of our competitors are large pharmaceutical companies that will have a greater ability to reduce prices for their competing drugs in an effort to gain or maintain market share and undermine the value proposition that we might otherwise be able to offer to payors. Bevyxxa is indicated for the prophylaxis of VTE in adult patients hospitalized for an acute medical illness who are at risk for thromboembolic complications due to moderate or severe restricted mobility and other risk factors. The current standard of care for VTE prophylaxis in acute medically ill patients in the United States is a 6- to 14-day administration of enoxaparin, marketed as Lovenox ® and also available in generic form. Enoxaparin is a low cost therapy that is widely accepted by physicians, patients and third-party payors. As a result, we may face difficulties in marketing Bevyxxa in this patient population. Additionally our competitors may have the financial and other resources to conduct additional clinical studies in an effort to obtain regulatory approval for use of their drugs for VTE prophylaxis in acutely ill medical patients. For example, we believe that Bayer and Janssen are near completion of their Phase 3 MARINER clinical trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of rivaroxaban for up to 45 days post hospital discharge (after enoxaparin in hospital) to reduce the risk of symptomatic VTE in medical ill patients. If the MARINER trial is successful, Bevyxxa is expected to face increased competition in the marketplace from a drug which would be used as a different treatment strategy (post discharge only) in an overlapping patient population. Such treatment strategy would not require physicians, patients and third-party payors to replace enoxaparin with a higher priced therapy in the hospital.. While there are no therapies approved specifically as antidotes for fXa inhibitors, we are aware of at least one drug candidate that has been studied in early stage clinical trials as a potential antidote to fXa inhibitors. In addition, in December 2014, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Pfizer Inc. announced that a clinical trial of 15 healthy human subjects demonstrated that two 4-factor PCCs reversed the steady-state pharmacodynamic effects of Eliquis (apixaban) in several coagulation assessments. Andexanet alfa, if approved, may compete with other currently approved treatments designed to enhance coagulation, such as FFP, PCCs, rFVIIa or whole blood. Although there is no clinical evidence supporting the use of such treatments in patients taking fXa inhibitors, physicians may choose to use them because of familiarity, cost or other reasons. In addition, we are aware that several companies have conducted preclinical research on compounds intended to be antidotes for fXa inhibitors.. Also, in October 2015, Boehringer Ingelheim Corporation obtained FDA and EMA approvals of idarucizumab for the reversal of the anticoagulant effect of Pradaxa (dabigatran) for emergency/urgent procedures or in life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. Although idarucizumab is a specific reversal agent for Pradaxa, a direct thrombin inhibitor, rather than a fXa inhibitor, to the extent the availability of a specific reversal agent leads to increased adoption of Pradaxa rather than fXa inhibitors or low molecular weight heparins, the demand for andexanet alfa as a specific reversal agent for fXa inhibitors and low molecular weight heparins could also be reduced.. There are also a number of products in clinical development for hematologic cancer, ophthalmological diseases, allergic rhinitis, allergic asthma and other inflammatory diseases that are potential indications for cerdulatinib or selective Syk inhibitors. Our competitors may develop products that are more effective, safer, more convenient or less costly than any that we are developing or that would render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many competing products are in later stages of development than our products and, therefore, may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products before we obtain approval for ours.. Many of our competitors, including a number of large pharmaceutical companies that compete directly with us, have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical study sites and patient registration for clinical studies, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.. 24. We received a Complete Response Letter to our initial BLA for andexanet alfa from the FDA indicating that our resubmission will not be approved unless those deficiencies have been successfully addressed.. In August 2016, we received a CRL from the FDA regarding our BLA for andexanet alfa. This CRL has delayed the commercial launch of andexanet alfa and required us to re-submit our BLA with additional information requested by the FDA, and it may present additional risk that andexanet alfa will not be approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, including the EMA. In the CRL, the items raised by the FDA primarily related to the manufacturing process and analytical testing of andexanet alfa. The FDA also asked us for additional data to support the inclusion of edoxaban and enoxaparin in the label and indicated that it needs to finalize its review of the clinical studies required as post-marketing commitments.. In August 2017 we resubmitted our BLA to the FDA in an effort to resolve the items identified by the FDA in the CRL and obtain approval of our BLA. On August 15, 2017, the FDA notified us that our resubmitted BLA was acceptable for review and assigned it an action due date of February 3, 2018. On December 22, 2017, the FDA notified us that this action date was extended by 90 days to May 4, 2018 to allow more time for a thorough review of the information provided and to work with the company on labeling and post-marketing commitments. We can offer no assurances that the resubmission will resolve all items raised in the CRL to the satisfaction of the FDA or that the FDA will not raise previously unidentified issues or further extend the action date for the BLA. As a result, our ability to market, sell, distribute, obtain acceptable reimbursement for, set pricing for, and continue to operate, commercialize or continue the development of andexanet alfa may be further delayed, adversely affected or prevented altogether.. Even if the outstanding items identified in the CRL are resolved to the satisfaction of the FDA by our resubmission, the agency retains the right not to approve the BLA or to require additional information, or to raise additional issues to support regulatory approval of andexanet alfa, which could further delay or prevent its approval or limit the approved indications for andexanet alfa. In addition, either the substance of the items identified by the FDA in the CRL, or the CRL itself, could have an adverse impact on our efforts to obtain marketing authorization for andexanet alfa from the EMA and other regulatory authorities. Also, in response to the CRL, we have suspended our efforts to expand post-approval supply based on an expanded generation 1 manufacturing process on the 6x2,000 liter Line C manufacturing line at CMC Biologics and are focusing our efforts on expanding post approval through our generation 2 manufacturing process at the 10,000 liter scale at Lonza. As a result, even if we obtain commercial marketing approval for andexanet alfa, our ability to market andexanet may be adversely impacted by limited supply of drug until we can commercially launch our generation 2 manufacturing process.. We are seeking regulatory approval of andexanet alfa in the United States through an Accelerated Approval process. If we are not successful with this process, the development or commercialization of andexanet alfa could be delayed, abandoned or significantly more costly.. The Accelerated Approval regulations allow drugs that are being developed to treat an unmet medical need to be approved substantially based on evidence of an effect on a surrogate biomarker endpoint that is considered reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit rather than a clinical endpoint such as survival or irreversible morbidity. Our use of an Accelerated Approval pathway requires that our ANNEXA-4 clinical study with clinical endpoints that will correlate to a surrogate endpoint(s) must be ongoing at the time our BLA is submitted, and some early patient data will be required by the FDA to support the BLA. In addition, we have commenced a usual care cohort arm of the ANNEXA-4 study to evaluate the efficacy of andexanet compared to usual care. However, both the usual care cohort and the other ANNEXA-4 studies have inherent limitations as compared with a randomized controlled trial. We expect that the FDA may require a randomized controlled trial of andexanet either as a post-marketing commitment, or even as a condition to approval. The design, practical implementation and ethical considerations of a randomized controlled trial for andexanet present many complications, and we cannot be sure that we could successfully design and conduct such a trial in a manner satisfactory to the FDA.  Further, the FDA may determine that the studies conducted by us, including any additional studies conducted as a result of the CRL or other FDA responses, were insufficient to support approval for all or some of the marketed direct or indirect fXa inhibitors or proposed indications, require us to conduct extensive post-approval studies, or require us to make modifications to our ongoing ANNEXA-4 study.. 25. If clinical studies of our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside the United States or do not otherwise produce positive results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, we must conduct extensive clinical studies to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical studies are expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and are uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more of our clinical studies could occur at any stage of testing. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical studies that could delay or prevent our ability to receive regulatory approval or commercialize our product candidates, including the following:. •  the number of patients required for clinical studies of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical studies may be insufficient or slower than we anticipate or patients may drop out of these clinical studies at a higher rate than we anticipate;. •  clinical studies of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical studies or abandon product development programs;. •  the cost of clinical studies or the manufacturing of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate;. •  our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all;. •  we might have to suspend or terminate clinical studies of our product candidates for various reasons, including unanticipated serious side effects, other unexpected characteristics or unacceptable health risks;. •  regulators may not approve our proposed clinical development plans;. •  regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical study or conduct a clinical study at a prospective study site;. •  regulators or institutional review boards may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements; and. •  the supply or quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical studies of our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate.. If we are required to conduct additional clinical studies or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete clinical studies of our product candidates or other testing, if the results of these studies or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may:. •  be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates;. •  not obtain marketing approval at all;. •  obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended;. •  have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval;. •  be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements; or. •  be subject to restrictions on how the product is distributed or used.. Our product development costs may also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether any anticipated clinical studies will begin as planned, or whether anticipated or ongoing clinical studies will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all.  Significant clinical study delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do, which would impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates and harm our business and results of operations.. 26. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical studies may not be predictive of the success of later clinical studies, and interim results of a clinical study do not necessarily predict final results. For example, the favorable results from our Phase 2 proof-of concept studies of andexanet alfa, evaluating the effect of andexanet alfa in healthy volunteers taking apixaban, rivaroxaban, edoxaban or enoxaparin may not be predictive of success in our Phase 4 study or other later studies, if any. In addition, although part 1 of each of our Phase 3 ANNEXA-A (apixaban) and ANNEXA-R (rivaroxaban) studies demonstrated that, for the primary efficacy endpoint, an intravenous bolus of andexanet alfa immediately and significantly reversed the anticoagulation activity of apixaban and rivaroxaban, and part 2 of each of our ANNEXA-A and ANNEXA-R studies demonstrated that, for all the primary and secondary endpoints, an intravenous bolus of andexanet alfa followed by a continuous two-hour infusion sustained the reversal of anticoagulation activity of apixaban and rivaroxaban, these positive results may not be predictive of success in our ANNEXA-4 confirmatory study in certain patients receiving apixaban, rivaroxaban, edoxaban or enoxaparin who present with acute major bleeding. Reversal of fXa inhibitor anticoagulation by andexanet does not ensure hemostasis, for example, if damage to the blood vessel integrity is severe, bleeding may not stop following the administration of andexanet. Further, the ANNEXA-4 clinical trial summary data published in August 2016 may not be predictive of the results of the complete ANNEXA-4 trial. We also do not know how the results from our ANNEXA trials will translate into clinical use in patients or the effect of repeat doses. Even if we receive accelerated approval for andexanet alfa based on biomarker findings and patient data from the ANNEXA-4 trial, we cannot be certain that the FDA will accept the final results of the ANNEXA-4 trials, including the comparative results in the Usual Care Cohort study, as sufficient evidence for full approval. Finally, the favorable interim results from our Phase 2a proof-of-concept study for cerdulatinib in patients with NHL, or CLL, who have failed or relapsed on existing marketed therapies or products in development, including patients with identified mutations, may not be confirmed in future clinical studies or predictive of final results.. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products internationally. Following the negative trend vote by the CHMP for betrixaban, it is unlikely that we will obtain marketing approval to commercialize betrixaban in the EU at this time. While the CHMP has communicated a positive trend vote for andexanet alfa, the CHMP has requested additional data with respect to andexanet and extended the timetable for the review.  This will delay the CHMP opinion and could even reduce the likelihood of a favorable opinion.. In order to market Bevyxxa or our future products in the European Economic Area, or EEA, and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. Specifically, in the EEA, medicinal products can only be commercialized after obtaining a Marketing Authorization, or MA. Before granting the MA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the member states of the EEA make an assessment of the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy.. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional clinical testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Clinical studies conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more foreign regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to submit for regulatory approvals and even if we submit we may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market.. In February 2018, the CHMP communicated a negative trend vote for the MAA for betrixaban for the prevention of VTE in adult patients hospitalized for an acute medical illness with risk factors for VTE. A negative trend vote means it is unlikely that the CHMP will adopt a positive opinion on the Company's MAA at the formal CHMP decision vote, and that additional steps would be needed to gain marketing approval for betrixaban in the EU.. The CHMP noted that uncertainties remained regarding a positive benefit risk analysis for betrixaban, which was not supported by a second confirmatory study, biological plausibility for betrixaban in another approved indication or external support within the class from other Factor Xa inhibitors with respect to the acute medically ill population. Failure to obtain marketing approval of betrixaban in the EU will reduce the commercial potential of betrixaban and could also have a negative impact on our efforts to commercialize and obtain market acceptance for betrixaban in the US market.. 27. In February 2018, the CHMP also communicated a positive trend vote on the MAA for andexanet alfa. While a positive trend vote is considered a positive (although not determinative) indicator for the potential outcome for the formal CHMP opinion, the CHMP also requested additional data with respect to andexanet which will delay the date of the formal opinion until the fourth quarter of 2018. In addition, at this time we cannot be certain that we will be able to provide the additional data to the CHMP in a form satisfactory to the CHMP, or that the additional data will support a positive opinion. Failure to obtain marketing approval of andexanet in the EU would reduce the commercial potential of andexanet.. If serious adverse side effects are identified with respect to any of our product candidates or our approved product, we may need to abandon our development of that product candidate or discontinue sale of that product.. It is impossible to guarantee when or if any of our product candidates will prove safe enough to receive regulatory approval. In addition, there can be no assurance that our clinical studies will identify all relevant safety issues. Known or previously unidentified adverse side effects can adversely affect regulatory approvals or marketing of approved products. In such an event, we might need to abandon marketing efforts or development of that product or product candidate or enter into a partnership to continue development.. For example, Bevyxxa, like all currently marketed inhibitors of fXa, carries some risk of life-threatening bleeding. In addition, patients taking betrixaban in our Phase 2 studies had an increased rate of gastrointestinal issues, such as diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, and other side effects such as back pain, dizziness, headaches, rashes and insomnia as compared to subjects taking a placebo or an active comparator.. While no serious adverse side effects have been observed in our completed healthy patient studies with andexanet alfa, there is a risk that adverse side effects could be observed through our ANNEXA-4 patient study results, additional clinical experience or repeat doses that are determined to have been caused by andexanet alfa. Some protein-based biologics have encountered problems with immunogenicity, that is, their tendency to trigger an unwanted immune response against themselves. To date, no neutralizing antibodies against andexanet alfa or antibodies to fXa have been detected; however there is still a risk that such antibodies could be identified through our ANNEXA-4 patient study results, additional clinical experience or from repeat doses. In addition, reversing the anticoagulant activity of fXa inhibitors in patients with underlying medical conditions requiring anticoagulation is associated with an increased risk of thrombotic events, as reported in the interim analysis of our ANNEXA-4 patient trial.. Even for Bevyxxa or any of our product candidates receive marketing approval, if a regulatory agency discovers adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency it may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. Among other legal and administrative actions, a regulatory agency may:. •  mandate modifications to product labelling or promotional materials or require us to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners;. •  suspend any regulatory approvals;. •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. •  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us, our partners or our potential future partners;. •  impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. •  seize or detain products or require a product recall.. In addition, the occurrence of any of the foregoing, even if promptly remedied, could negatively impact the perception of us or the relevant product among the medical community, patients or third party payors.. 28. Delays in the enrollment of patients in any of our clinical studies could increase our development costs and delay completion of our clinical studies and associated regulatory submissions.. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical studies for our product candidates if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in these studies as required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. Even if we are able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical studies, if the pace of enrollment is slower than we expect, the development costs for our product candidates may increase, and the completion of our studies may be delayed or our studies could become too expensive to complete.. Even if andexanet alfa is approved by the FDA, this approval may be limited to certain indications, require post-marketing commitments, and additional clinical studies and regulatory applications may be required to expand andexanet alfa indications and we can provide no assurances that such post-marketing commitments, additional clinical studies or regulatory applications will be successful.. We are developing andexanet alfa as a universal antidote for patients receiving a fXa inhibitor anticoagulant when reversal of anticoagulation is needed, such as in life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding or for emergency surgery/urgent procedures. Our ANNEXA-4 Phase 4 study is being conducted in patients receiving either a direct or an indirect fXa inhibitor who present with an acute major bleeding, and our ANNEXA Phase 3 studies have been conducted on healthy volunteers. It is not certain at this time which indications, if any, the FDA will approve based on this data. For example, in the CRL, the FDA stated that we have not provided sufficient information to permit labeling of andexanet alfa for safe and effective use for the proposed indication as a universal antidote. The FDA has also asked us for additional data to support the inclusion of edoxaban and enoxaparin in the label, and indicated it needed to finalize its review of the clinical studies required as post-marketing commitments. These observations in the CRL creates greater risk concerning our efforts to obtain U.S. approval for andexanet alfa as a universal antidote for fXa inhibitors as the issues raised and information requested by the FDA may be costly and time-consuming to address and generate. As a result of these observations, we could decide or be required to seek our initial approval on a more narrow indication relating to serious bleedings among patients on the two most broadly used fXa inhibitors, apixaban and rivaroxaban. Our studies have also not yet included patients requiring emergency surgery or urgent procedures and we do not anticipate obtaining this indication without clinical data. Additional clinical studies will be required to support our targeted indications, which will require additional time and expense and may not prove successful. Limitations in our label for andexanet alfa will reduce the number of patients for whom andexanet alfa is indicated and could reduce the size of the anticipated market and our financial prospects. Further, there is no guarantee that any efforts that we decide to undertake will meet the FDA's requirements, and we may not receive approval at all for andexanet alfa, even in a more narrow indication despite such efforts.. There are risks associated with scaling up manufacturing to commercial scale. Our commercial manufacturing strategy for andexanet alfa is particularly complex and challenging and is currently subject to increased uncertainty due to the CRL. We have also experienced manufacturing challenges in the past in connection with validating the commercial manufacturing process for Bevyxxa, and are still in the process of qualifying an additional manufacturing facility for Bevyxxa. If our manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products on a commercial scale or scale to increased production, this will likely delay regulatory approval and commercialization or materially adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects.. We are still in the process of qualifying an additional commercial manufacturing facility at our primary supplier of Bevyxxa. As a part of our commercial scale-up plan, we validated our commercial process at an initial Hovione manufacturing facility and plan to move commercial production to a different Hovione production facility that has greater manufacturing capacity. Before we can use material manufactured at this facility, we are required to demonstrate a successful process transfer and obtain post-marketing regulatory approval for the second facility. We can give no assurance that these efforts will be successful in a timely manner.. 29. There are other risks associated with scaling up manufacturing to commercial volumes including, among others, cost overruns, technical problems with process scale-up, process reproducibility, stability issues, lot consistency and timely availability of raw materials. There is no assurance that our manufacturer will be able to manufacture our products to specifications acceptable to the FDA or other regulatory authorities, to produce it in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements for the potential launch of the product or to meet potential future demand. If we and our manufacturers are unable to produce sufficient quantities of our products for commercialization, either on a timely basis or at all, our commercialization efforts would be impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We have encountered uncertainties and risks associated with scaling up the manufacturing for andexanet alfa. The manufacture of biologics involves complex processes, typically including developing cell lines or cell systems to produce the biologic, growing large quantities of such cells and harvesting and purifying the biologic produced by them. The cost to manufacture biologics is generally far higher than traditional small molecule chemical compounds, and the manufacturing process is more complex and can be difficult to reproduce. Even though we have completed our process validation campaign for generation 2 commercial scale manufacturing, there is no guarantee we will be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for this process. Due to the high cost to manufacture andexanet alfa and the inherent uncertainty related to manufacturing costs, there is a relatively greater risk that andexanet alfa may not be commercially viable.. Our commercial manufacturing strategy for andexanet alfa is also subject to substantial uncertainty due to items raised by the FDA in the CRL. Changes to our manufacturing strategy, and addressing the manufacturing items in the CRL, will require additional time and capital and may not be successful. For example, we have suspended our efforts to expand post-approval supply based on an expanded generation 1 manufacturing and are focusing our efforts on expanding supply post approval through our generation 2 manufacturing process. We still intend to seek commercial approval based on generation 1 supply from CMC Biologics. However, our generation 1 manufacturing process was designed to produce andexanet alfa for our clinical studies on a small scale and is capable of manufacturing only limited supply to support a commercial launch in relation to projected demand. We are currently discussing options with the FDA and our commercial manufacturing organizations for expanding commercial supply post-approval. Without material from an expanded capacity manufacturing facility, even if approved, commercial supply of andexanet alfa at launch will likely be limited to our generation 1 supply until such time as we can obtain approval for generation 2 material.. In order to obtain FDA approval of generation 2 material produced by Lonza, the vendor's manufacturing facility will need to pass a pre-approval regulatory inspection and we will need to demonstrate that such material is comparable to the clinical material we previously used and material produced in our generation 1 process.  Demonstrating comparability can require significant pre-clinical and clinical studies. The material may also be considered a new biological entity and a new clinical program, possibly commencing with Phase 1, and a full BLA submission may be required for approval, resulting in additional time and expense. If we are not able to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing process for andexanet alfa, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects would be materially adversely affected.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical studies, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such studies.. We do not independently conduct clinical studies of our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, or CROs, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, to perform this function. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. We remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical studies is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the study.. 30. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical studies to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of patients in clinical studies are protected. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical studies in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, regulatory approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize Bevyxxa or our product candidates.. We also rely on other third parties to store and distribute supplies for our clinical studies. Any performance failure on the part of our existing or future distributors could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue.. We rely on third-party contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply Bevyxxa and our product candidates for us. If one of our suppliers or manufacturers fails to perform adequately or fulfill our needs, we may be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to find new suppliers or manufacturers. We may also face significant delays in the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. We do not own facilities for clinical-scale or commercial manufacturing of our product candidates and we rely on third-party suppliers to manufacture Bevyxxa and our product candidates. For example, we have entered into a manufacturing agreement with Hovione for the manufacture of Bevyxxa and expect to rely on this manufacturing organization to supply Bevyxxa for U.S. commercial launch and, if approved by the EMA, the EU launch. If Hovione fails for any reason to deliver adequate quantities of Bevyxxa, the commercial launch of Bevyxxa will be delayed or disrupted. We have contracted with CMC Biologics to manufacture andexanet alfa bulk drug substance to support our potential U.S. commercial launch, and we have engaged Lonza to develop a new, higher-capacity and lower cost process for andexanet alfa bulk drug substance in order to support our broader, worldwide commercialization strategy. We also rely or expect to rely on other third party providers for raw materials, drug substance and drug product manufacturing, packaging, labeling and supply chain distribution. If we and our suppliers cannot agree to the terms and conditions for them to provide the drug supply necessary for our clinical and commercial needs, or if any single source supplier breaches an agreement with us, or terminates the agreement in response to an alleged breach by us or otherwise becomes unable to fulfill its supply obligations, we would not be able to manufacture and distribute the product candidate until a qualified alternative supplier is identified, which could also significantly delay the development of, and impair our ability to commercialize, our product candidates.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products in compliance with the FDA's current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, including difficulties with production costs and yields, quality assurance, including stability of the product candidate and quality control testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced cGMP requirements, other federal and state regulatory requirements and foreign regulations. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations to us or under applicable regulations and agreements, our ability to provide the drug supply necessary for our clinical studies and commercial needs would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of clinical study materials could delay the completion of our clinical studies, increase the costs associated with maintaining our clinical study programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new studies at significant additional expense or terminate the studies completely.. 31. All manufacturers of our product candidates must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our product candidates may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies may also implement new standards at any time, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacturing, packaging or testing of products. We have limited control over our manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any product supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers' failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay or interruption of clinical studies, regulatory submissions, approvals or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs or adversely affect our reputation.. Although alternative sources of supply exist, the number of third-party suppliers with the necessary manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities to manufacture biologics is limited, and it could be expensive and take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. New suppliers of any product candidate would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing the product candidate. Obtaining the necessary FDA approvals or other qualifications under applicable regulatory requirements and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and could require the new manufacturer to bear significant additional costs which may be passed on to us.. We may enter into collaborations that place the development of our product candidates outside our control, require us to relinquish important rights or may otherwise be on terms unfavorable to us, and if our collaborations are not successful, our product candidates may not reach their full market potential.. We may enter into additional collaboration agreements with third parties with respect to our product candidates for the commercialization of the candidates outside the U.S., or for other purposes. For example, we have out-licensed development and commercial rights to andexanet alfa in Japan. In addition, depending on our capital requirements, development and commercialization costs, need for additional therapeutic expertise and other factors, it is possible that we will enter into broader development and commercialization arrangements with respect to our product candidates. Our likely collaborators for any distribution, marketing, licensing or broader collaboration arrangements include large and mid-size pharmaceutical companies, regional and national pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. We will have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators dedicate to the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to generate revenue from these arrangements will depend in part on our collaborators' abilities to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements.. Collaborations involving our product candidates are subject to numerous risks, which may include the following:. •  collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to any such collaborations;. •  collaborators may not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical study results, changes in their strategic focus due to the acquisition of competitive products, availability of funding or other external factors, such as a business combination that diverts resources or creates competing priorities;. •  collaborators may delay clinical studies, provide insufficient funding for a clinical study program, stop a clinical study, abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical studies or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;. •  collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates;. 32. •  a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to their marketing and distribution;. •  collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our intellectual property or proprietary information in a way that gives rise to actual or threatened litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential liability;. •  disputes may arise between us and a collaborator that causes the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that results in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources;. •  collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates; and. •  collaborators may own or co-own intellectual property covering our products that results from our collaborating with them, and in such cases, we would not have the exclusive right to commercialize such intellectual property.. Any termination or disruption of our collaboration with potential collaborators could result in delays in the development and commercialization of our product candidates, increases in our costs to develop and commercialize the product candidate, or the termination of development of a product candidate.. RISKS RELATED TO THE OPERATION OF OUR BUSINESS. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on William Lis, our Chief Executive Officer, and the other principal members of our executive and scientific teams. Under the terms of their employment, our executives may terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of any of these people could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. We maintain \"key person\" insurance for Mr. Lis but not for any other executives or employees. Any insurance proceeds we may receive under our \"key person\" insurance on Mr. Lis would not adequately compensate us for the loss of his services.. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us.. We expect to expand our development, regulatory and sales and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations.. Over the next several years, we expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs, quality, commercial compliance, medical affairs, and sales and marketing. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations.. 33. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to existing and new public company compliance and reporting regulations.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and rules of the SEC and those of The NASDAQ Stock Market, or the NASDAQ, have imposed various requirements on public companies including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Our management and other personnel have and will need to continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations are continuously being revised, have increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, we are required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as applicable, requires us to incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to continue to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404, as applicable, requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, may cause our operations to suffer and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on trading prices for our common stock, and could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets.. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit sales of Bevyxxa and limit commercialization of any products that we may develop.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical studies, and the manufacturing, distribution and sale of Bevyxxa, and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products that we may develop. For example, the manufacturers of currently marketed fXa inhibitors and other manufacturers of anticoagulants have faced substantial litigation due to certain alleged bleeding risks. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that Bevyxxa or our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for Bevyxxa or any product candidates or products that we may develop;. •  injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. •  withdrawal of patients from clinical studies or cancellation of studies;. •  significant costs to defend the related litigation;. •  substantial monetary awards to patients;. 34. •  loss of revenue; and. •  the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop.. We currently hold $10.0 million in product liability insurance coverage, which may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise.. We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on product candidates or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we focus on research programs and product candidates for specific indications. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future research and development programs and product candidates for specific indications may not yield any commercially viable products.. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through collaboration, licensing, or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights.. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures and the handling, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Our operations involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of these materials and wastes. We cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We also could incur significant costs associated with civil or criminal fines and penalties.. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us in connection with our storage or disposal of biological or hazardous materials. In addition, we may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters is located in California near major earthquake faults. Our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural or manmade disaster.. 35. If we obtain approval to commercialize any approved products outside of the United States, a variety of risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect our business. If any product candidates that we may develop are approved for commercialization outside the United States, we will be subject to additional risks related to entering into international business relationships, including:. •  different regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;. •  differing payor reimbursement regimes, governmental payors or patient self-pay systems and price control;. •  reduced protection for intellectual property rights;. •  unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;. •  economic weakness, including inflation or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. •  compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;. •  foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. •  foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. •  workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. •  production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and. •  business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters including earthquakes, typhoons, floods and fires.. In connection with our Bevyxxa and andexanet alfa development, we are currently utilizing certain suppliers outside of the United States, which subjects us to certain of the above risks.. Our internal computer systems, or those of our CROs or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical study data from completed or ongoing clinical studies for any of our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed.. 36. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We are a party to intellectual property license agreements with third parties, including with respect to Bevyxxa, cerdulatinib, one of our selective Syk inhibitors, and our PCSK9 program, and we expect to enter into additional license agreements in the future. Our existing license agreements impose, and we expect that our future license agreements will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, our licensors may have the right to terminate these agreements, in which event we may not be able to develop and market any product that is covered by these agreements. Termination of these licenses or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms or our not having sufficient intellectual property rights to operate our business. The occurrence of such events could materially harm our business.. Our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to obtain and maintain effective intellectual property rights for our technologies and product candidates.. Our success depends in large part on our and our licensors' ability to obtain and maintain patent and other intellectual property protection in the United States and in other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. In some circumstances, we may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the patents, covering technology or products that we license from third parties. Therefore, we cannot be certain that these patents and applications will be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. In addition, if third parties who license patents to us fail to maintain such patents, or lose rights to those patents, the rights we have licensed may be reduced or eliminated.. We have sought to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States and abroad related to our novel technologies and products that are important to our business. This process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from using our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which legal principles remain unresolved. In recent years patent rights have been the subject of significant litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our and our licensors' patent rights are highly uncertain. Our and our licensors' pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned and licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, prior to March 16, 2013, in the United States, the first to make the claimed invention is entitled to the patent, while outside the United States, the first to file a patent application is entitled to the patent. On March 16, 2013, under the recently enacted America Invents Act, the United States moved to a first to file system.. 37. The effects of these changes are currently unclear as the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, has only recently implemented various regulations, the courts have only just begun to issue decisions addressing these provisions and the applicability of the act and new regulations on specific patents discussed herein have not been determined and would need to be reviewed. We may become involved in opposition or other proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others, and the outcome of any proceedings are highly uncertain. For example, in November 2013, Zentiva k.s. and Günter SÖLCH separately filed papers with the European Patent Office opposing European Patent 2101760, assigned to Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., to which we have an exclusive license. The European Patent Office decided in favor of revoking the European patent.  Portola will appeal this revocation. This patent is related to a formulation of Bevyxxa. Should the appeal or other proceedings be unsuccessful, this could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights.. Even if our owned and licensed patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, which could limit our ability to stop or prevent us from stopping others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours or otherwise provide us with a competitive advantage.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the proprietary rights or intellectual property of third parties. We may become party to, or be threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, including interference proceedings before the USPTO. An interference proceeding is a proceeding before the USPTO to determine the priority among multiple patents or patent applications. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. If we are found to infringe a third-party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third-party to continue developing and marketing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. 38. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties can have a similar negative impact on our business.. We may be unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, thus harming our business and competitive position.. In addition to our patented technology and products, we rely upon trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our collaborators and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. However, it is possible that technology relevant to our business will be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement. Furthermore, if the employees, consultants or collaborators that are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach or violation, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches or violations. Further, our trade secrets could be disclosed, misappropriated or otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, intellectual property laws in foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If our trade secrets are disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed intellectual property of their former employers. Intellectual property litigation or proceedings could cause us to spend substantial resources and distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other intellectual property-related proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace.. 39. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates.. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, import, export, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. We will not be permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA or a BLA, from the FDA. Obtaining approval of an NDA or BLA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process that may not be successful. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including the following:. •  warning letters;. •  civil or criminal penalties and fines;. •  injunctions;. •  suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval;. •  suspension of any ongoing clinical studies;. •  voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements;. •  refusal to accept or approve applications for marketing approval of new drugs or biologics or supplements to approved applications submitted by us;. •  restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. •  seizure or detention of our products or import bans.. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our product candidates in the United States or abroad, we must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical studies, and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad, that such product candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. Results from preclinical studies and clinical studies can be interpreted in different ways. Even if we and our collaboration partners believe the preclinical or clinical data for our product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Administering any of our product candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or cause suspension of clinical studies of our product candidates and result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications.. Regulatory approval of an NDA or BLA is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical studies, or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical studies. The number of preclinical studies and clinical studies that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition that the product candidate is designed to address and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  a product candidate may not be deemed safe or effective;. •  FDA officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical studies sufficient;. •  the FDA may find our manufacturing data insufficient to support approval. •  the FDA might not approve our or our third-party manufacturer's processes or facilities; or. •  the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations.. 40. If any of our product candidates fails to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical studies or does not gain regulatory approval, our business and results of operations will be materially and adversely harmed.. Unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives could harm our business.. There is increasing pressure on biotechnology companies to reduce healthcare costs. In the U.S., these pressures come from a variety of sources, such as managed care groups, institutional, and government purchasers. Increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of federal healthcare programs and private sector beneficiaries could increase pricing pressures in the future. Such pressures may also increase the risk of litigation or investigation by the government regarding pricing calculations. The biotechnology industry will likely face greater regulation and political and legal action in the future.. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new therapeutic products vary widely from country to country. Some countries, including EU member countries, require approval of the sale price of a product before it can be marketed. In many countries, including EU member countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. In some foreign markets, including the EU member countries, current standard of care and/or competitive products may be used as a benchmark or reference to determine pricing and reimbursement level for novel products such as andexanet alfa and betrixaban. To the extent that comparators are available at lower prices than our anticipated pricing for andexanet alfa or betrixaban, the pricing and reimbursement level of our products in the EU could be negatively impacted. As a result, we might obtain regulatory approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product and negatively impact the revenue we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country, or even reduce the commercial viability of the product to an extent that prevents the launch altogether.. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in Bevyxxa or one or more product candidates, even if our product candidates obtain regulatory approval. Adverse pricing limitations prior to approval will also adversely affect us by reducing our commercial potential. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for these products and related treatments becomes available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels.. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. Following the launch of Bevyxxa in January 2018, we continue our negotiations with hospitals and third-party payors regarding coverage reimbursement and formulary placement. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for any product that we commercialize and, if reimbursement is available, what the level of reimbursement will be. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product for which we obtain marketing approval. Obtaining reimbursement for our products may be particularly difficult because of the higher prices often associated with products administered under the supervision of a physician. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate that we successfully develop.. 41. There may be significant delays in obtaining reimbursement for approved products, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the product is approved by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. Moreover, eligibility for reimbursement does not imply that any product will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Payment rates may vary according to the use of the product and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower cost products that are already reimbursed and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for products may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable payment rates from both government funded and private payors for Bevyxxa or new products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent the commercial success of Bevyxxa or our product candidates.. In the United States, there have been and we expect there will continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in ways that could affect our future revenue and profitability and the future revenue and profitability of our potential customers. Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system, some of which are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. For example, one of the most significant healthcare reform measures in decades, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, collectively, the Affordable Care Act, was enacted in 2010. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse measures, all of which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. The Affordable Care Act, among other things:. •  imposes a non-deductible annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell \"branded prescription drugs,\" effective 2011;. •  increases the minimum level of Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers of brand-name drugs from 15.1% to 23.1%, effective 2011;. •  expanded Medicaid drug rebates to cover drugs paid by Medicaid managed care organizations;. •  changes the Medicaid rebate rates for line extensions or new formulations of oral solid dosage form;. •  expands the types of entities eligible for the \"Section 340B discounts\" for outpatient drugs;. •  requires manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50% (and 70% commencing January 1, 2019) point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable branded drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; and. •  creates a process for approval of biologic therapies that are similar or identical to approved biologics.. 42. Legislative changes to or regulatory changes under the Affordable Care Act remain possible and appear likely in the 115th U.S. Congress and under the Trump Administration. In addition, since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders and other directives designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the Affordable Care Act. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the Affordable Care Act. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the Affordable Care Act have been signed into law. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the Affordable Care Act on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate\". Additionally, on January 22, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain Affordable Care Act-mandated fees, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Further, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, or the BBA, among other things, amends the Affordable Care Act, effective January 1, 2019, to close the coverage gap in most Medicare drug plans, commonly referred to as the \"donut hole\". We cannot assure that the Affordable Care Act, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, the Budget Control Act of 2011, or Budget Control Act, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, which triggered the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs, including aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in April 2013, and due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, including the BBA, will remain in effect through 2027 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.. Further, there has been heightened governmental scrutiny in the United States of pharmaceutical pricing practices in light of the rising cost of prescription drugs and biologics. Such scrutiny has resulted in several recent congressional inquiries and proposed and enacted federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for products. At the federal level, the Trump administration's budget proposal for fiscal year 2019 contains further drug price control measures that could be enacted during the 2019 budget process or in other future legislation, including, for example, measures to permit Medicare Part D plans to negotiate the price of certain drugs under Medicare Part B, to allow some states to negotiate drug prices under Medicaid, and to eliminate cost sharing for generic drugs for low-income patients. While any proposed measures will require authorization through additional legislation to become effective, Congress and the Trump administration have each indicated that it will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs. At the state level, legislatures are increasingly passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing.. 43. There likely will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future or their full impact. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect:. •  our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products;. •  our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability; and. •  the availability of capital.. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Pharmaceutical companies are heavily regulated by federal, state and local regulations in the countries in which business activities occur. Even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to laws and regulations governing healthcare fraud and abuse, advertising and other promotional activities, data privacy and patient rights by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, without limitation:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, any person or entity from knowingly and willfully offering, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. •  the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act or Open Payments Program provisions and the implementing regulations which will require, among other things, extensive tracking of physician and teaching hospital payments, maintenance of a payments database, and public reporting of the payment data;. •  the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false claims, or knowingly using false statements, to obtain payment from the federal government;. •  federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. •  the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar statutes and regulations in foreign jurisdictions, which makes it unlawful for certain classes of persons and entities to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business;. •  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information;. •  the Drug Quality and Security Act which requires manufacturers and other distribution parties to create systems to trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed in the United States; and. •  state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers.. The Affordable Care Act, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Affordable Care Act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act.. 44. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to substantial penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal healthcare programs, integrity oversight and reporting obligations to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly.. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our stock price may be volatile, and investors in our common stock could incur substantial losses.. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and may be volatile in the future. The stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may experience losses on their investment in our stock. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including the following:. •  our ability to meet the expectations of investors related to the commercialization of Bevyxxa;. •  regulatory actions or decisions affecting Bevyxxa, including the timing and outcome of any potential future FDA or EMA decision relating to Bevyxxa, or other product candidates, including those of our competitors;. •  inaccurate sales or cash forecasting of Bevyxxa;. •  the timing and amount of revenues generated from sale of Bevyxxa;. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to Bevyxxa;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. •  results of clinical trials or regulatory actions with respect to our product candidates;. •  market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. •  actual or anticipated changes in earnings estimates or changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally;. •  trading volume of our common stock;. •  sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders;. •  general economic, industry and market conditions; and. •  the other risks described in this \"Risk factors\" section.. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies. In addition, following our update call on September 5, 2017, at least three plaintiffs' securities litigation firms publicly announced that they are investigating potential securities fraud claims that they may wish to make against us. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. 45. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research, about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Securities and industry analysts may cease to publish research on our company at any time in their discretion. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. In addition, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If our operating results fail to meet the forecasts of analysts, our stock price will likely decline.. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our corporate charter and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. Among others, these provisions include the following:. •  our board of directors is divided into three classes with staggered three-year terms which may delay or prevent a change of our management or a change in control;. •  our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. •  our stockholders may not act by written consent or call special stockholders' meetings; as a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions other than at annual stockholders' meetings or special stockholders' meetings called by the board of directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president;. •  our certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. •  stockholders must provide advance notice and additional disclosures in order to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and. •  our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock; the ability to issue undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. 46. Our agreements with our executive officers may require us to pay severance benefits to any of those persons who are terminated in connection with a change in control of us, which could harm our financial condition or results or discourage third parties from seeking business combinations.. Our executive officers are parties to agreements that contain change in control and severance provisions providing for aggregate cash payments of up to approximately $4.8 million for severance and other benefits and acceleration of vesting of equity awards with a value of approximately $30.3 million as of December 31, 2017, based on the closing price of our common stock of $48.7 on such date in the event of a termination of employment in connection with a change in control of us. The accelerated vesting of equity awards could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and harm the market price of our common stock. The payment of these severance benefits could harm our financial condition and results. In addition, these potential severance payments may discourage or prevent third parties from seeking a business combination with us.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be our stockholders' sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future."
