[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial condition or results.. Risks Related to Our Business. We operate in categories with strong competition.. The consumer food and beverage, sports nutrition, and sports supplement categories are highly competitive. Our competitors may have substantial financial, marketing and other resources. Increased competition can reduce our sales due to loss of market share or the need to reduce prices to respond to competitive and customer pressures. In most product categories, we compete not only with widely advertised branded products, but also with private label and store brand products. A strong competitive response from one or more of our competitors to our marketplace efforts, or a shift in consumer preferences to competitors' products, could result in us reducing pricing, increasing marketing or other expenditures or losing market share. Our profits could decrease if a reduction in prices or increased costs are not counterbalanced with increased sales volume.. We must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer food products to meet these preferences.. Consumer and customer preferences evolve over time. The success of our food products depends on our ability to identify these changing preferences and to offer products that appeal to consumers and our customers. Consumer preference changes include dietary trends, attention to different nutritional aspects of foods and beverages, concerns regarding the health effects of certain foods and sourcing practices relating to ingredients, and animal welfare concerns.. Our Michael Foods Group business is and will continue to be affected by changing preferences as to the housing of egg-laying hens.  Many restaurant chains, foodservice companies and grocery chains have announced goals to transition to a cage-free egg supply by specified future dates. Meeting anticipated customer demand has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional operating and capital costs to procure cage-free eggs, to modify existing layer facilities and to construct new cage-free layer housing. These changing preferences also could require us to use specially sourced ingredients that may be more difficult to source and/or entail a higher cost or incremental capital investment which we may not be able to pass on to customers.. Our business strategy depends on us identifying and completing additional acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions.. We continuously evaluate and may in the future enter into additional strategic transactions. Any such transaction could happen at any time, could be material to our business and could take any number of forms, including, for example, an acquisition, investment or merger, for cash or in exchange for our equity securities, or a divestiture.. Evaluating potential transactions, including divestitures, requires additional expenditures (including legal, accounting and due diligence expenses, higher administrative costs to support the acquired entities, information technology, personnel and other integration expenses) and may divert the attention of our management from ordinary operating matters.. Our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, and may have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. Future acquisitions also could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, all of which could singly or collectively adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be unable to integrate the Weetabix Group business successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. The acquisition of Latimer Newco 2 Limited and all of Latimer's direct and indirect subsidiaries at the time of acquisition, including Weetabix Limited (collectively, the \"Weetabix Group\") involves  the combination of two companies that have operated independently. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating business practices, cultures and operations of each business, in particular, our Post Consumer Brands business and Weetabix NA's business operations. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:. • the inability to successfully combine our business with that of the Weetabix Group in a manner that permits us to achieve the synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition;. • the challenge of integrating complex systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, networks and other assets of the Weetabix Group in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies;. • potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition, including cash costs to integrate the two businesses that may exceed the cash costs that we currently anticipate; and. 9. Table of Contents. • although the warranties regarding the business and operations of the Weetabix Group made by certain of the sellers who are members of the Weetabix Group's management survive the closing and we have indemnification rights against these members of management in the event any of such warranties prove to have been inaccurate or breached, the liability of these members of management for such claims is capped at £2.2 million in the aggregate, and no portion of the purchase price for the transaction is held in escrow for the purpose of funding indemnification claims, so we may not be able to collect any damages we may incur for inaccuracies or breaches in warranties from these members of management after closing.. Accordingly, the contemplated benefits of the Weetabix Group acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. We may experience difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, or acquisitions may not perform as expected.. We have acquired multiple businesses, and we may continue to acquire other businesses. The successful integration of these acquisitions depends on our ability to manage the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses. Integrating operations is complex and requires significant efforts and expenses on the part of both us and the acquired businesses. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include, but are not limited to, the following:. • employees may voluntarily or involuntarily separate employment from us or the acquired businesses because of the acquisitions;. • our management may have its attention diverted while trying to integrate the acquired businesses;. • we may encounter obstacles when incorporating the acquired businesses into our operations and management, including integrating or separating personnel, financial systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, networks and other assets in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies;. • differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies;. • integration may be more costly or more time consuming and complex or less effective than anticipated;. • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures; and. • we may discover previously undetected operational or other issues, such as fraud.. Any of these factors could adversely affect our and the acquired businesses' ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies.. In addition, the success of these acquired businesses will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies through the successful integration of the businesses we acquire with our existing businesses. Even if we are successful in integrating acquired businesses, we cannot assure you that these integrations will result in the realization of the full benefit of any anticipated growth opportunities or cost synergies or that these benefits will be realized within the expected time frames. In addition, acquired businesses may have unanticipated liabilities or contingencies.. Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products.. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends in part on general or local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase less of our products and may forego certain purchases altogether. In those circumstances, we could experience a reduction in sales of our products. In addition, as a result of economic conditions or competitive actions, we may be unable to raise our prices sufficiently to protect profit margins. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Commodity price volatility and higher energy costs could negatively impact profits.. The primary commodities used by our businesses include wheat, oats, other grain products, vegetable oils, fruits, peanuts, almonds and other tree nuts, dairy and soy-based proteins, whey, cocoa, corn syrup and sugar. The supply and price of these ingredients are subject to market conditions and are influenced by many factors beyond our control, including weather patterns affecting ingredient production, governmental programs and regulations, insects, and plant diseases. Our primary packaging includes linerboard cartons, corrugated boxes, plastic containers, flexible and beverage packaging and cartonboard. In addition, our manufacturing operations use large quantities of natural gas, propane and electricity. The cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely, and we may experience shortages in commodity items as a result of commodity market fluctuations, availability, increased demand, weather conditions and natural disasters, as well as other factors outside of our control. Higher prices for natural gas, propane, electricity and fuel also may increase our production and delivery costs. Changes in the prices charged for our products may lag behind changes in our energy and commodity costs. Accordingly, changes in commodity or energy costs may limit our ability to maintain existing margins and have a material adverse effect on our operating profits. Competitive pressures often limit our ability to increase prices in response to higher input costs. If we fail to hedge and prices subsequently increase, or if we institute. 10. Table of Contents. a hedge and prices subsequently decrease, our costs may be greater than anticipated or greater than our competitors' costs, and our financial results could be adversely affected.. Michael Foods' operating results are significantly affected by egg, potato and cheese prices and the prices of corn and soybean meal, which are the primary grains fed to laying hens. Historically, the prices of these raw materials have fluctuated widely. In addition, Michael Foods' cheese and butter products are affected by milk price supports established by the USDA. Although steps can be taken to mitigate the effects of changes in raw material costs, fluctuations in prices are outside of the control of the Michael Foods business, and changes in the price of such items may have a material adverse effect on the Michael Foods business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Certain supply and demand disruptions, such as those experienced with the 2015 avian influenza outbreak, could create an inability to keep selling prices in line with input costs and may result in significant fluctuations in operating profit margins.. Unsuccessful implementation of business strategies to reduce costs may adversely affect our results of operations.. Many of our costs, such as raw materials, energy and freight, are outside of our control. Therefore, we must seek to reduce costs in other areas, such as through operating efficiency. If we are not able to complete projects designed to reduce costs and increase operating efficiency on time or within budget, our operating profits may be adversely impacted. In addition, if the cost-saving initiatives we have implemented, or any future cost-saving initiatives, do not generate the expected cost savings and synergies, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our Active Nutrition and Michael Foods Group products are subject to a higher level of regulatory scrutiny, resulting in increased costs of operations and delays in product sales.. Our products and operations are subject to the laws and regulations of the FDA and/or the USDA, as well as other applicable laws and regulations. Some of our Active Nutrition products are regulated by the FDA as dietary supplements, which are subject to different FDA regulations and levels of regulatory scrutiny. Certain of Michael Foods' egg products are subject to continuous on-site inspections by the USDA. It also is possible that federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take regulatory or enforcement action, which could result in significant fines or penalties. If we are found to be significantly out of compliance, the FDA could issue a warning letter and/or institute enforcement actions that could result in additional costs, substantial delays in production or even a temporary shutdown in manufacturing and product sales while the non-conformances are rectified. Also, we may have to recall products or otherwise remove product from the market,  and temporarily cease its manufacture and distribution, which would increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Any product liability claims resulting from the failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations would be expensive to defend and could result in substantial damage awards against us or harm our reputation. Any of these events would negatively impact our revenues and costs of operations.. If our products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled or become contaminated, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers are injured.. Selling food products and nutritional supplements involves a number of legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens or other adulteration. Additionally, many of the raw materials used to make certain of our products, particularly eggs, raw potatoes, peanuts and tree nuts, are vulnerable to contamination by naturally occurring pathogens, such as salmonella. We may need to recall some or all of our products if they become adulterated, mislabeled or misbranded, whether caused by us or someone in our supply chain. A recall could result in destruction of product inventory, negative publicity, temporary plant closings, supply chain interruption, substantial costs of compliance or remediation, fines and increased scrutiny by federal, state and foreign regulatory agencies. Should consumption of any product cause injury, we may be liable for monetary damages as a result of a judgment against us. In addition, adverse publicity, including claims, whether or not valid, that our products or ingredients are unsafe or of poor quality, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Any of these events, including a significant product liability claim against us, could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our food products. Although we have various insurance programs in place, any of these events and/or a loss of consumer confidence could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.. Violations of laws or regulations, as well as new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business.. The food industry is subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, including food safety requirements related to the ingredients, manufacturing, processing, storage, marketing, advertising, labeling and distribution of our products as well as those related to worker health and workplace safety. Our activities, both inside and outside of the U.S., are subject to extensive regulation. In the U.S. we are regulated by, among other federal and state authorities, the FDA, the USDA, the Federal Trade Commission and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. In Europe, we are regulated by, among other authorities, the United Kingdom's Food Standards Agency, Health and Safety Executive, Environment Agency, Environmental Health Officers, Trading Standards Officers, and their equivalent in other European Union member states. We also are regulated by similar authorities elsewhere in the world. Governmental regulations also affect taxes and levies, healthcare costs, energy usage, immigration and labor issues, any or all of which may have a direct or indirect effect on our business or those of our customers or suppliers. In. 11. Table of Contents. addition, because we market and advertise our products, we could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state and foreign laws and regulations and may be subject to initiatives to limit or prohibit the marketing and advertising of our products to children. Changes in these laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could increase the costs of doing business for us or our customers or suppliers, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. As a specific example, some states have passed laws that mandate specific housing requirements for layer hens. Further, if we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. U.S. tax reform, if enacted, could have an adverse impact on our future results of operations, profitability and financial condition. In addition, the United States government has initiated renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). Any changes to NAFTA could adversely impact our North American operations.. Our inability to raise prices may adversely affect our results of operations.. Our ability to raise prices for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to industry supply, market demand and promotional and other pricing activity by competitors. If we are unable to increase prices for our products as may be necessary to cover cost increases, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, price increases typically generate lower sales volumes as customers purchase fewer units. If these losses are greater than expected or if we lose distribution as a result of a price increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Loss of a significant customer may adversely affect our results of operations.. A limited number of customer accounts represents a large percentage of our consolidated net sales. Our largest customer, Walmart, accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2017. Walmart is also the largest customer of our Post Consumer Brands segment, accounting for approximately 29% of Post Consumer Brands' net sales in fiscal 2017. Additionally, the largest customers of our Michael Foods Group segment, Sysco and US Foods, accounted for approximately 27% of its net sales in fiscal 2017, and the largest customers of our Active Nutrition segment, Costco and Sam's Club, accounted for approximately 57% of the Active Nutrition segment's net sales in fiscal 2017. The largest customers of our Private Brands segment, Whole Foods and Aldi, accounted for approximately 26% of Private Brands' net sales in fiscal 2017. The largest customers of our Weetabix segment, Tesco and Asda, accounted for approximately 32% of Weetabix's net sales in fiscal 2017.. The success of our businesses depends, in part, on our ability to maintain our level of sales and product distribution through high-volume food distributors, retailers, super centers and mass merchandisers. The competition to supply products to these high-volume stores is intense. Currently, we do not have long-term supply agreements with a substantial number of our retail customers, including our largest customers. These high-volume stores and mass merchandisers frequently reevaluate the products they carry. A decision by our major customers to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, sell a national brand on an exclusive basis or change the manner of doing business with us could reduce our revenues and materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our customers offer branded and private label products that compete directly with our products for retail shelf space and consumer purchases. Accordingly, there is a risk that our customers may give higher priority to their own products or to the products of our competitors. In the event of a loss of any of our large customers, or the bankruptcy or serious financial difficulty of any of our large customers, our sales may be adversely affected.. Consolidation among the retail grocery and foodservice industries may hurt profit margins.. Over the past several years, the retail grocery and foodservice industries have undergone significant consolidations and mass merchandisers and non-traditional grocers are gaining market share. As this trend continues and such customers grow larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased reliance on their own brand name products, increased emphasis on generic and other value brands and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to respond to these requirements, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if the surviving entity is not a customer, we may lose significant business once held with the acquired retailer.. Our Post Consumer Brands and Weetabix segments operate in the mature RTE cereal category, and the failure or weakening of this category could materially adversely affect our financial results.. Our Post Consumer Brands and Weetabix segments together produce and distribute branded, licensed and private label RTE cereal and hot cereals, other cereal-based food products and muesli, selling products to grocery stores, discounters, big box retailers, foodservice distributors, wholesalers and convenience stores across the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, the United Kingdom, Ireland and the rest of the world. The RTE cereal category has experienced weakness in recent years, and we expect this trend may continue. Although we expect to achieve synergies in connection with our acquisition of the Weetabix Group, continuing weakness in the RTE cereal category, or the weakening of our major products competing in this category, could have a material adverse impact on our business.. 12. Table of Contents. Our private label products may not be able to compete successfully with nationally branded products.. Our Private Brands segment, and several of our other segments, produce and distribute private label products. In many cases, competitors with nationally branded products have a competitive advantage over private label products due to name recognition. In addition, when branded competitors focus on price and promotion, the environment for private label producers becomes more challenging because the price differential between private label products and branded products may become less significant. Competitive pressures or promotions of branded products could cause us to lose sales, which may require us to lower prices or increase the use of our own discounting or promotional programs, each of which would adversely affect our margins and could result in a decrease in our operating results and profitability.. Disruption of our supply chain and changes in weather conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In coordination with our suppliers, business partners and contract manufacturers, our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our collective manufacturing or distribution capabilities resulting from weather, any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, disease, fire, explosion, terrorism, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products.. Changes in weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, fires or pestilence, also may affect the cost and supply of commodities and raw materials, including grains, eggs, potatoes, tree nuts, corn syrup and sugar. Additionally, these events can result in reduced supplies of raw materials and lower recoveries of usable raw materials. Competing manufacturers can be affected differently by weather conditions and natural disasters depending on the location of their suppliers and operations. Failure to take adequate steps to reduce the likelihood or mitigate the potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and/or require additional resources to restore our supply chain.. We are currently dependent on third party manufacturers to manufacture many products for our business. Our business could suffer as a result of a third party manufacturer's inability to produce our products for us on time and to our specifications.. Our business relies on independent third parties for the manufacture of many products, such as protein bars, shakes and powders, breakfast drinks and certain cereal and granola products. Our business could be materially affected if we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these third parties, if these third parties fail to comply with governmental regulations applicable to the manufacturing of our products, or if any of these third parties ceases doing business with us or goes out of business. Additionally, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with these third party manufacturers, such as increases in manufacturing costs, reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control and failure to meet production deadlines. The inability of a third party manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner, in desirable quantities or to meet our safety, quality and social compliance standards or regulatory requirements could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Termination of our material licenses would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We market certain of our products in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and several other locations pursuant to intellectual property license agreements. These licenses give us the right to use certain names, characters and logos in connection with our products and to sell the products in certain regions. If we were to breach any material term of these license agreements and not timely cure the breach, the licensor could terminate the agreement. If the licensor were to terminate our rights to use the names, characters and logos for this reason or any other reason, the loss of such rights could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Pending and future litigation may lead us to incur significant costs.. We are, or may become, party to various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business, which may include lawsuits or claims relating to contracts, intellectual property, product recalls, product liability, false or deceptive advertising, employment matters, environmental matters or other aspects of our business. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. The outcome of litigation is often difficult to predict, and the outcome of pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations.. Although we have various insurance programs in place, the potential liabilities associated with these litigation matters, or those that could arise in the future, could be excluded from coverage or, if covered, could exceed the coverage provided by such programs. In addition, insurance carriers may seek to rescind or deny coverage with respect to pending or future claims or lawsuits. If we do not have sufficient coverage under our policies, or if coverage is denied, we may be required to make material payments to settle litigation or satisfy any judgment. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Our international operations subject us to additional risks.. As a result of various acquisitions, we now have larger operations outside of the U.S. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks related to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business. These risks include:. • restriction on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including potentially negative tax consequences;. • foreign exchange controls and currency exchange rates;. • increased exposure to general market and economic conditions outside of the U.S.;. • political uncertainty and volatility;. • compliance with anti-corruption regulations (including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act);. • data security; and. • unfavorable and/or changing foreign tax treaties and policies.. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our principal exposure is to the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar and the Euro.. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers.. U.S. and global credit markets have, from time to time, experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and in certain cases resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Events affecting the credit markets also have had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the U.S., which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities or refinance our existing debt, sell our assets or borrow more money if necessary. Our business also could be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business or increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Changing currency exchange rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial position.. We have operations and assets in the U.S. as well as foreign jurisdictions, and a portion of our contracts and revenues are denominated in foreign currencies. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. We therefore must translate our foreign assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may negatively affect the value of these items in our consolidated financial statements. To the extent we fail to manage our foreign currency exposure adequately, we may suffer losses in value of our net foreign currency investment, and our consolidated results of operations and financial position may be negatively affected.. The uncertainty surrounding the implementation and effect of Brexit may cause increased economic volatility, affecting our operations and business.. The results of the referendum relating to the membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union, advising for the exit  of the United Kingdom from the European Union (\"Brexit\"), may cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationships with our existing and future customers, suppliers and employees. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the United Kingdom makes to retain access to European Union markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers, suppliers and employees. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate.. These developments may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Impairment in the carrying value of intangible assets could negatively impact our net worth. If our goodwill, other intangible assets or other long-term assets become impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which may be significant.. Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, trademarks, trade names and other acquired intangibles. Intangibles and goodwill expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but our management reviews them for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired. Impairments to intangible assets may be caused by factors outside of our control, such as increasing. 14. Table of Contents. competitive pricing pressures, lower than expected revenue and profit growth rates, changes in industry EBITDA and revenue multiples, changes in discount rates based on changes in cost of capital (interest rates, etc.) or the bankruptcy of a significant customer. These factors, along with other internal and external factors, could negatively impact our net worth and could have a significant impact on our fair value determination, which could then result in a material impairment charge in our results of operations. In fiscal 2017, we had an impairment of goodwill and no impairment of intangible assets. In fiscal 2016, we had no impairments of goodwill or intangible assets. During fiscal 2015, we had an impairment of both goodwill and trademark intangible assets. We could have additional impairments in the future. See further discussion of these impairments in MD&A and Notes 2 and 6 of \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" contained in this report.. Unusual agricultural diseases (such as avian influenza) and/or pests could harm our business.. Many of our business activities are subject to a variety of agricultural risks, including disease and pests, which can adversely affect the quality and quantity of the raw materials we use, as well as the food products we produce and distribute. Any actual or potential contamination of our products could result in product recalls, market withdrawals, safety alerts, cessation of manufacturing and/or distribution or, if we fail to comply with applicable FDA, USDA  or other regulatory authority requirements, enforcement actions. We also could be subject to product liability claims or adverse publicity if any of our products are alleged to have caused illness or injury.. Avian influenza occasionally affects the domestic poultry industry, leading to hen deaths. In 2015, an avian influenza outbreak occurred in the midwest of the United States affecting a substantial portion of our Michael Foods Group's owned and third party contracted flocks. Although we utilize biosecurity measures at our layer locations to protect against disease exposures, if our facilities are exposed to diseases and pests, such exposure could affect a substantial portion of our production facilities in any year and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel or experience turnover of our management team.. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate and expand our business. If we lose one or more members of our senior management team, or if we fail to attract new employees, our business and financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be harmed.. Labor strikes or work stoppages by our employees could harm our business.. Some of our full-time production and maintenance employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. A dispute with a union or employees represented by a union could result in production interruptions caused by work stoppages. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we could be subject to unionization efforts at our non-union facilities. Increased unionization of our workforce could lead to disruptions in our business, increases in our operating costs and/or constraints on our operating flexibility.. In the event of a work stoppage, we have contingency plans in place to manufacture products in other locations to mitigate disruption to the business. However, there are limitations inherent in any plan to mitigate disruption to our business in the event of a work stoppage and, particularly in the case of a prolonged work stoppage, there can be no assurance that it would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses to our qualified pension and other post-retirement plans, which could negatively impact profits.. We maintain qualified defined benefit plans in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom primarily for our Post Consumer Brands and Weetabix businesses, and we are obligated to ensure that these plans are funded or paid in accordance with applicable regulations. In the event the assets in which we invest do not perform according to expectations, or the valuation of the projected benefit obligation increases due to changes in interest rates or other factors, we may be required to make significant cash contributions to these plans and recognize increased expense on our financial statements.. Increases in costs of medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability.. With approximately 11,410 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of medical and other health and welfare benefits for these employees as well as certain former employees. These costs can vary substantially as a result of changes in health care laws, costs and experience. These factors may increase the cost of providing medical and other employee health and welfare benefits. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases. If we do not succeed, our profitability could be negatively affected.. Technology failures and corruption of our data privacy protections could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business.. We rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information, to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements.. 15. Table of Contents. For example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers and suppliers depends on information technology. Some of our information technology needs are outsourced to third parties. Our and our third party vendors' information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our or their control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. Such interruptions could negatively impact our business.. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure and to maintain and protect the related automated and manual control processes, or if one of our third party service providers fails to provide the services we require, we could be subject to billing and collection errors, business disruptions or damage resulting from security breaches. If any of our significant information technology systems suffers severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we could experience delays in reporting our financial results. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption, litigation and reputational damage from leaks of confidential or personal information. Although we have not detected a material security breach to date, we have been the target of events of this nature and expect them to continue.. We also are subject to an evolving body of federal, state and foreign laws, regulations, guidelines and principles regarding data privacy and security. A data breach or inability on our part to comply with such laws, regulations, guidelines and principles, or to quickly adapt our practices to reflect them as they develop, could potentially subject us to significant liabilities and reputational harm. Several foreign governments, including the European Union, have regulations dealing with the collection and use of personal information obtained from their citizens, and we cannot assure you that we, our business partners or third parties engaged by us will successfully comply with such laws.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands.. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licenses, to be a significant and valuable asset of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and the policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business.. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties' intellectual property rights. Any claims of intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign or rebrand our products or packaging, if feasible; divert management's attention and resources; or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, a successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements or stop the sale of certain products, any or all of which could have a negative impact on our operating profits and harm our future prospects.. Media campaigns related to food production and the use or misuse of social media may have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Media outlets, including new social media platforms, provide the opportunity for individuals or organizations to publicize inappropriate or inaccurate stories or perceptions about us or the food industry. Such practices have the ability to cause damage to our brands, the industry generally, or consumers' perceptions of us or the food production industry and may result in negative publicity and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, our competitors are increasingly using social media networks to advertise products. If we are unable to compete in this environment, it could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose significant costs and expose us to potential financial liabilities.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those limiting the discharge and release of pollutants into the environment and those regulating the transport, storage, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes. In addition, our Michael Foods business is subject to particular federal and state requirements governing animal feeding operations and the management of animal waste. Certain environmental laws and regulations can impose joint and several liability without regard to fault on responsible parties, including past and present owners and operators of sites, related to cleaning up sites at which hazardous materials were disposed of or released. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could result in severe fines and penalties by governments or courts of law. In addition, future laws may more stringently regulate the emission of greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide. 16. Table of Contents. and methane. We cannot predict the impact that such regulation may have, or that climate change may otherwise have, on our business.. Future events, such as new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations, new environmental claims, the discovery of currently unknown environmental conditions requiring response action or more vigorous interpretations or enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations, might require us to incur additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Climate change, or legal or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.. There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. If any of these climate changes has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as wheat, oats and other grain products. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more federal, state, local and/or foreign legal requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such laws are enacted, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. From time to time, we release guidance regarding our future performance or the expected future performance of companies or businesses that we have agreed to acquire. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in such release and the factors described under \"Forward-Looking Statements\" in our current and periodic reports filed with the SEC. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, although presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance. Investors also should recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it.. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this report could result in actual operating results being different than the guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material.. If we are unable to continue to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned, and our stock price may suffer.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"SOX\") requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to perform a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures, our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to issue an opinion on its audit of our internal control over financial reporting.. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, our management may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the annual deadline imposed by SOX. If our management cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies material weaknesses in our internal controls, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may consequently suffer. As of September 30, 2017, management determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective.. 17. Table of Contents. We have recently acquired a company that was not subject to SOX regulations and, therefore, it may lack the internal controls of a U.S. public company, which could ultimately affect our ability to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of SOX.. We have recently acquired a company that was not previously subject to SOX regulations and accordingly was not required to establish and maintain an internal control infrastructure meeting the standards promulgated under SOX. Our assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2017 did not include the internal controls of the Weetabix Group, which was acquired during our fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and will be included in our assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018.. Although our management will continue to review and evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls in light of this acquisition, we cannot provide any assurances that there will be no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the internal control structure of our acquired businesses may cause significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to comply with Section 404 of SOX.. Actions of shareholders could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources, and have an adverse effect on our business.. From time to time, we may be subject to proposals and other requests from shareholders urging us to take certain corporate actions, including proposals seeking to influence our corporate policies or effecting a change in our management. In the event of such shareholder proposals, particularly with respect to matters which our management and Board of Directors, in exercising their fiduciary duties, disagree with or have determined not to pursue, our business could be adversely affected because responding to actions and requests of shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees.  Additionally, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, business partners and customers.. Risks Related to the Bob Evans Acquisition. Our pending acquisition of Bob Evans is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the approval of Bob Evans's stockholders, and may not be consummated, and if not consummated under certain circumstances, we may be subject to monetary or other damages under the merger agreement.. On September 19, 2017, we announced that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire Bob Evans. Completion of this acquisition is subject to certain conditions, including the approval of Bob Evans's stockholders and the expiration of any waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (the \"HSR Act\"). Our obligation to complete the acquisition is also subject to certain additional customary conditions, including, subject to specific standards, the accuracy of Bob Evans's representations and warranties, performance in all material respects by Bob Evans of its obligations under the merger agreement and the absence of any \"Company Material Adverse Effect\" (as defined in the merger agreement) with respect to Bob Evans since the date of the merger agreement. Completion of the acquisition is not subject to a vote of our shareholders.. The Bob Evans acquisition is expected to be completed in the first calendar quarter of 2018, the second quarter of our fiscal year 2018. There can be no assurance, however, that all of the closing conditions for the acquisition will be satisfied and, if they are satisfied, that they will be satisfied in time for the closing to occur during the period noted above. In addition, stockholders of Bob Evans have brought litigation against Bob Evans and us in connection with the acquisition. Shareholder litigation has the potential to delay the timing or occurrence of the acquisition. The merger agreement contains certain termination rights, including that either we or Bob Evans may terminate the merger agreement if (i) the acquisition is not completed on or prior to September 18, 2018, subject to extension for an additional three-month period for the purpose of obtaining regulatory approvals and/or addressing certain impediments to the acquisition, (ii) a governmental entity has issued an order or taken any other action permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the acquisition and such order or other action has become final and non-appealable or (iii) the acquisition is not approved by the stockholders of Bob Evans at its stockholders' meeting.. Our ability to obtain any financing to fund a portion of the purchase price is not a condition to closing under the merger agreement. However, if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing or experience a significant diminution of our existing cash and cash equivalents or other sources of capital, and as a result we do not have sufficient funds to complete the acquisition of Bob Evans, we may be subject to monetary or other damages under the merger agreement as a result of our failure to complete the acquisition.. We may be unable to obtain the regulatory clearances required to complete the Bob Evans acquisition or, in order to do so, we or Bob Evans may be required to comply with material restrictions or satisfy material conditions.. The Bob Evans acquisition is subject to review by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission under the HSR Act. The closing of the acquisition is subject to the condition that the applicable waiting period, and any applicable. 18. Table of Contents. extensions thereof, under the HSR Act have expired or been duly terminated. We cannot provide any assurance that all required HSR Act clearances will be obtained. There can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact of the actions that may be required to obtain antitrust approval. In addition, the merger agreement provides that we are not required to commit to dispositions of assets in order to obtain regulatory clearance. If we determine to take such actions in order to close the acquisition, it could be detrimental to the combined organization following the consummation of the acquisition. Furthermore, these actions could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the proposed acquisition or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues or cash of the combined organization following the consummation of the acquisition. However, if clearance under the HSR Act is not obtained and the merger agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, we could be liable to Bob Evans for a reverse termination fee of $50.0 million.. Even if the parties receive early termination of the statutory waiting period under the HSR Act or the waiting period required expires, the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, or other regulatory authorities could take action under the antitrust laws to prevent or rescind the acquisition, require the divestiture of assets or seek other remedies. Additionally, state attorneys general could seek to block or challenge the Bob Evans acquisition as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest at any time, including after completion of the transaction. In addition, in some circumstances, a third party could initiate a private action under antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. We may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws.. We may be unable to integrate the Bob Evans business successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. The pending acquisition of Bob Evans involves the combination of two companies that have operated independently. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating business practices, cultures and operations of each business. The reorganization of the structure of our Michael Foods business and Bob Evans to combine the refrigerated retail businesses of Michael Foods and Bob Evans as a single operating unit and the commercial foodservice businesses of Michael Foods and Bob Evans as a separate single operating unit will be particularly complex. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:. • the inability to successfully combine our business with that of Bob Evans in a manner that permits us to achieve the synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition;. • the challenge of integrating complex systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, networks and other assets of Bob Evans in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies;. • potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition, including cash costs to integrate the two businesses that may exceed the cash costs that we currently anticipate; and. • we have no post-closing indemnification or similar rights under the merger agreement we entered into with Bob Evans with respect to the representations and warranties Bob Evans made in the merger agreement with respect to its business, so we will have no recourse against Bob Evans's management or  stockholders in the event any of the representations or warranties made by Bob Evans in the merger agreement prove to be inaccurate or are breached.. Accordingly, the contemplated benefits of the pending Bob Evans acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. Failure to complete the Bob Evans acquisition could impact our stock price and our future business and financial results.. If the acquisition of Bob Evans is not completed, our ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected and we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:. • depending on the reasons for the failure to complete the Bob Evans acquisition, we could be liable to Bob Evans for monetary or other damages in connection with the termination or breach of the merger agreement, including a reverse termination fee of $50.0 million;. • we have dedicated significant time and resources, financial and otherwise, in planning for the acquisition and the associated integration, of which we would lose the benefit if the acquisition is not completed;. • we are responsible for certain transaction costs relating to the Bob Evans acquisition, whether or not the acquisition is completed;. • while the merger agreement is in force, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business, including our ability to make any other significant acquisition which would reasonably be expected to prevent or delay, or otherwise materially increase the risk of preventing or delaying, the consummation of the Bob Evans acquisition, which restrictions may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies; and. 19. Table of Contents. • matters relating to the acquisition (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, whether or not the acquisition is completed, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us.. In addition, if the Bob Evans acquisition is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers and employees. We also may be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the acquisition or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the merger agreement. If the acquisition is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition, as well as the price of our common stock.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness. We have substantial debt and high leverage, which could have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position and which could adversely affect our business.. We have a significant amount of debt. We had $7,212.2 million in aggregate principal amount of total debt as of September 30, 2017. Additionally, our secured revolving credit facility has borrowing capacity of $790.0 million at September 30, 2017 (all of which would be secured when drawn).. Our overall leverage and the terms of our financing arrangements could:. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our financing arrangements;. • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;. • limit our flexibility to plan for and to adjust to changing business and market conditions in the industries in which we operate and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future investments, capital expenditures, working capital, business activities and other general corporate requirements;. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; and. • subject us to higher levels of indebtedness than our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce our flexibility in responding to increased competition.. Our ability to meet expenses and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in consumer preferences, the success of product and marketing innovation and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise additional equity.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the financing arrangements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, as defined in the documents governing our indebtedness.. The agreements governing our debt, including the indentures governing our senior notes, contain, or may in future financings contain, various covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests, and failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our financing arrangements contain restrictions, covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and to refinance our existing indebtedness. Financing arrangements which we enter into in the future could contain similar restrictions and could additionally require us to comply with similar, new or additional financial tests or to maintain similar, new or additional financial ratios. The terms of our financing arrangements, financing arrangements which we enter into in the future and any future indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could limit our ability to pay dividends, respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities by limiting the amount of additional borrowings. 20. Table of Contents. we may incur. These restrictions include compliance with, or maintenance of, certain financial tests and ratios and may limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things:. • borrow money or guarantee debt;. • create liens;. • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase stock or other securities;. • make investments and acquisitions;. • enter into or permit to exist contractual limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us;. • enter into new lines of business;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • sell assets or merge with other companies.. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants. Failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants in our existing or future financing arrangements could result in a default under those arrangements and under other arrangements containing cross-default provisions.. Our credit agreement contains customary financial covenants, including a covenant requiring us to maintain a senior secured leverage ratio not to exceed 4.25 to 1.00, measured as of the last day of any fiscal quarter if, as of the last day of such fiscal quarter, the aggregate outstanding amount of all revolving credit loans, swing line loans and letter of credit obligations (subject to certain exceptions specified in the credit agreement) exceeds 30% of our revolving credit commitments. Our credit agreement permits us, subject to certain exceptions, to incur additional unsecured debt only if, among other conditions, our consolidated interest coverage ratio, calculated as provided in our credit agreement, would be greater than or equal to 2.00 to 1.00 after giving effect to such new debt. The indentures that govern our senior notes contain a similar restriction.. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these arrangements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under our indentures, credit agreement and convertible preferred stock. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.. To service our indebtedness and other cash needs, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to pay interest on our outstanding senior notes, to satisfy our other debt obligations, and to fund any planned capital expenditures, dividends and other cash needs will depend in part upon the future financial and operating performance of our subsidiaries and upon our ability to renew or refinance borrowings. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments.. If we are unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we may consider other options, including:. • sales of assets;. • sales of equity;. • reduction or delay of capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances; or. • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the senior notes and our other debt obligations, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Your percentage ownership in Post may be diluted in the future.. As with any publicly traded company, our shareholders' percentage ownership in Post may be diluted in the future because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees and the accelerated vesting of other equity awards. For a more detailed description of our equity incentive plan, see \"Executive Compensation.\". 21. Table of Contents. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risk factors listed in this report or for reasons unrelated to our performance, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative developments relating to our customers, competitors or suppliers, as well as general economic and industry conditions.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Missouri law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Missouri law contain provisions intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive and incentivizing prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:. • the Board of Directors is divided into three classes with staggered terms;. • the Board of Directors fixes the number of members on the Board;. • elimination of the rights of our shareholders to act by written consent (except when such consent is unanimous) and to call shareholder meetings;. • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings;. • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval;. • supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws;. • anti-takeover provisions of Missouri law which may prevent us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder, or which may deter third parties from acquiring amounts of our common stock above certain thresholds; and. • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors."
