[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and results of operations could be negatively impacted and we may not be able to achieve our quarterly, annual or long-range plans. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below may also negatively impact our business and results of operations. This Annual Report also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as \"forward-looking statements\" under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the discussion under \"Forward-Looking Statements,\" above.. Our business is largely dependent on customers in the oil and gas markets and we are adversely impacted by extended periods of low oil or gas prices, which decrease our customers' spending, the demand for our products and services and the prices we are able to charge. This has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our future operating results.. Oil and gas prices, while improving somewhat in 2017, are still down from 2014 levels and are expected to remain volatile. This decline in oil and gas prices since 2014 has had a negative effect on our markets and led to the reduction of projects available and thus reduced our revenue and our backlog of projects. Unfavorable commodity prices have caused oil and gas companies to change their strategies, reduce project spending and delay and/or cancel projects. The price for oil and gas can be influenced by many factors, including global economic growth, inventory levels and supply and demand for these commodities. These factors could cause oil and gas prices to remain depressed or decrease further, which could result in a continued decrease in customer projects that could adversely impact our operations. Continued periods of reduced oil and gas prices will negatively impact our business and results of operations and could result in impairment losses on our long-lived assets.. Economic uncertainty and financial market conditions may impact our customer base, suppliers and backlog.. Various factors drive demand for our products and services, including the price and demand for oil and gas, capital expenditures, economic forecasts and financial markets. Uncertainty regarding these factors could impact our customers and severely impact the demand for projects and orders for our products and services. Additionally, the loss of significant volume from one particular customer at one of our facilities could adversely impact that facility. If one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors experiences difficulties that result in a reduction or interruption in supply to us, or they fail to meet our manufacturing requirements, our business could be adversely impacted until we are able to secure alternative sources. Furthermore, our ability to maintain or expand our business would be limited in the future if we are unable to maintain or increase our bonding capacity or our credit facility on favorable terms or at all. These disruptions could lead to reduced demand for our products and services and could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and, therefore, may not be a reliable indicator of our future earnings.. We have a backlog of uncompleted contracts. Backlog represents the dollar amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. From time to time, projects are cancelled or modified and while we may be reimbursed for certain costs, we may not have a contractual right to the total revenue reflected in our backlog. In addition to our being unable to recover certain direct costs, cancelled projects may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the underutilization of our assets. Accordingly, the amounts recorded in backlog may not be a reliable indicator of our future earnings.. 6. The use of percentage-of-completion accounting on our fixed-price contracts could result in volatility in our results of operations.. As discussed in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" and in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, the majority of our revenues are recognized on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. Under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, revenues are recognized as work is performed and costs are incurred. The revenue earned to date is calculated by multiplying the total contract price by the percentage of performance to date, which is based on total costs or total labor dollars incurred to date compared to the total estimated costs or total labor dollars estimated at completion. The method used to determine the percentage of completion is typically the cost method, unless the labor method is a more accurate method of measuring the progress of the project. Application of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting requires the use of estimates of costs to be incurred for the performance of the contract. The cost estimation process is based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our management teams, engineers, project managers and financial professionals. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and estimates of revenue and cost to complete are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of estimated contract performance. Previously recorded estimates are adjusted as the project progresses and circumstances change. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments to costs and revenues could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. The majority of our contracts contain performance obligations that may subject us to penalties or additional liabilities.. Most of our customer contracts have schedule and performance obligation clauses that, if we fail to meet, could subject us to penalty provisions, liquidated damages or claims against the company or our outstanding letters of credit or performance bonds. In addition, some customer contracts stipulate protection against our gross negligence or willful misconduct. Each individual contract defines the conditions under which the customer may make a claim against us. It is possible that adjustments arising from such claims, or our failure to manage our contract risk, may not be covered by insurance and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Fluctuations in the price and supply of materials used to manufacture our products may reduce our profits and could adversely impact our ability to meet commitments to our customers.. Our material costs represented 47% of our consolidated revenues for Fiscal 2017. Unanticipated increases in raw material requirements or prices, as well as changes in supplier availability or supplier consolidation, could increase production costs and adversely affect profitability as fixed-price contracts may prohibit our ability to charge the customer for the increase in raw material prices. We purchase a wide variety of materials and component parts from various suppliers to manufacture our products, including steel, aluminum, copper and various components. Our supply base for certain key components and raw materials is limited and may come from a single supplier. If we are unable to obtain key components and raw materials from these suppliers, the key components and raw materials may not be readily available from other suppliers or available with acceptable terms. Our success depends on our ability to meet customer commitments and could be negatively impacted if a supplier experiences a disruption or discontinuance in their operations. The time and effort associated with the selection and qualification of a new supplier and changes in our design and testing to accommodate similar components from other suppliers could be significant. Additionally, we rely on certain competitors for key materials used in our products. This could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products if the relationships change or become adversarial.. Our industry is highly competitive.. Some of our competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater global resources such as engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including the number of projects available, technical ability, production capacity, location and price. Certain of our competitors may have lower cost structures and may, therefore, be able to provide their products or services at lower prices than we are able to provide. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry, maintain our customer base at current levels, increase our customer base or continue to provide technologically superior products at a competitive price. New companies may enter the markets in which we compete, or industry consolidation may occur, further increasing competition in our markets. Our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect future revenues and have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our operations could be adversely impacted by the effects of government regulations.. Changes in policy, laws or regulations, including those affecting oil and gas exploration and development activities and the resulting decisions by customers and other industry participants could reduce demand for our products and services, which would have a negative impact on our operations. Various regulations have been implemented around the world related to safety and certification. 7. requirements applicable to oil and gas drilling and production activities and we cannot predict whether operators will be able to satisfy these requirements. Further, we cannot predict future changes in any country in which we operate and how those changes may affect our ability to perform projects in those regions.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires disclosure of use of \"conflict\" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and our efforts to prevent the use of such minerals. In our industry, conflict minerals are most commonly found in metals. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" metals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face challenges with our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are \"conflict free.\". Changes in tax laws and regulations may change our effective tax rate and could have a material effect on our financial results.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. A change in tax laws, deductions or credits, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, in the countries in which we operate could result in a higher tax rate on our pre-tax income, which could have a material impact on our net income. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and our tax estimates and tax positions could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings, the extent to which deferred tax assets are realized and changes in uncertain tax positions. A significant increase in our tax rate could have a material impact on our net income or loss and cash flow.. Our international operations expose us to risks that are different from, or possibly greater than, the risks we are exposed to domestically and may adversely affect our operations.. Revenues with customers located outside of the U.S., including sales from our operations in the U.K. and Canada, accounted for approximately 29% of our consolidated revenues in Fiscal 2017. While our manufacturing facilities are located in developed countries with historically stable operating and fiscal environments, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:  political and economic instability; social unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; inflation; changes in tax laws; the application of foreign labor regulations; currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions and/or governmental activities that limit or disrupt markets, restrict payments or limit the movement of funds and trade restrictions or economic embargoes imposed by the U.S. or other countries. Additionally, the compliance with foreign and domestic import and export regulations and anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws of other jurisdictions outside the U.S., could adversely impact our ability to compete for contracts in such jurisdictions. Moreover, the violation of such laws or regulations, by us or our representatives, could result in severe penalties including monetary fines, criminal proceedings and suspension of export privileges.. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business.. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers, senior management and other key professionals. We cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to perform and manage our business.. Our business requires skilled labor and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees.. Our ability to maintain our productivity at competitive levels may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We face significant competition for qualified personnel in our industry. We may experience shortages of qualified personnel such as engineers, project managers and select skilled trades. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force or key technical personnel necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy and operations. We cannot be certain that our labor costs will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled and technical personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business, meet customer commitments or grow our revenues, and may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We are exposed to risks relating to the use of subcontractors on some of our projects.. We hire subcontractors to perform work on some projects and sometimes depend on third-party suppliers to provide equipment and materials necessary to complete or ship our products. If our subcontractors do not perform as expected for any reason, we may experience delays in completing work or experience additional costs. In addition, we may have disputes with these independent subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of the work they have performed. Any of these factors could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. 8. Actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings could ultimately reduce our profitability and liquidity and weaken our financial condition.. We could be named as a defendant in future legal proceedings that claim damages in connection with the operation of our business. Most of the actions against us arise out of the normal course of our performing services or manufacturing equipment. From time to time, we may be a plaintiff in legal proceedings against customers in which we seek to recover payment of contractual amounts due to us, as well as claims for increased costs incurred by us. When appropriate, we establish provisions against certain legal exposures, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to ongoing developments related to each exposure, as well as any potential recovery from our insurance, if applicable. If, in the future, our assumptions and estimates related to such exposures prove to be inadequate or wrong, or our insurance coverage is insufficient, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Losses arising from such events may or may not be fully covered by our various insurance policies or may be subject to deductibles or exceed coverage limits.. Quality problems with our products could harm our reputation and erode our competitive position.. The success of our business depends upon the quality of our products and our relationships with customers. In the event that one of our products fails to meet our customers' standards, safety requirements or fails to operate effectively, our reputation could be harmed, which would adversely affect our marketing and sales efforts. We provide warranties to our customers for our products and the cost to satisfy customer warranty claims, which may include, among other things, costs for the repair or replacement of products, could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. A failure in our business systems or cyber security attacks on any of our facilities, or those of third parties, could adversely affect our business and our internal controls.. Our organization is dependent upon the proper functioning of our business systems that support our production, engineering, human resources, estimating, finance, and project management functions. If any of our financial, operational, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings due to natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, cyber security attacks or other similar events, our business or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, despite implementation of security measures, our business systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cyber-attacks and other unauthorized access.These security breaches could result in a disruption to our operations or in legal claims or proceedings. A material network breach of our business systems could involve the theft of intellectual property, financial data, employee or customer data, which may be used by competitors. We rely on third-party systems which could also suffer operational system failure or cyber-attacks. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. We carry insurance against many potential liabilities, but our management of risk may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks.. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to our related exposures, including certain casualty, property, business interruption and self-insured medical and dental programs, these policies contain deductibles, self-insured retentions and limits of coverage. In addition, we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates or may be faced with liabilities not covered by insurance, such as, but not limited to, environmental contamination or terrorist attacks. We estimate our liabilities for known claims and unpaid claims and expenses based on information available as well as projections for claims incurred but not reported. However, insurance liabilities, some of which are self-insured, are difficult to estimate due to various factors. If any of our insurance policies or programs are not effective in mitigating our risks, we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance policies, that are subject to deductibles or that exceed our estimated accruals or our insurance policy limits which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Changes in and compliance with environmental laws could adversely impact our financial results.. Private lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal, state, provincial or foreign regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. Certain environmental laws may make us potentially liable for the remediation of contamination at or emanating from our properties or facilities. Although we seek to obtain indemnities against liabilities relating to historical contamination at the facilities we own or operate, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not incur liabilities relating to the remediation of potential contamination, including contamination we did not cause.. Technological innovations by competitors may make existing products and production methods obsolete.. 9. All of the products that we manufacture and sell depend upon the best available technology for success in the marketplace. The industries in which we operate are characterized by intense competition and are highly sensitive to technological innovation and customer requirements. It is possible for competitors (both domestic and international) to develop products or production methods that will make current products or methods obsolete or at a minimum hasten their obsolescence; therefore, we cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide products and services that are superior in both price and quality. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and offer products that meet changing customer specifications. Failure to successfully develop new products, or to enhance existing products, could result in the loss of existing customers to competitors, the inability to attract new business or an overall reduction in our competitive position, any of which may adversely affect our business or results of operations.. Catastrophic events could disrupt our business.. The occurrence of catastrophic events, ranging from natural disasters to health epidemics, to acts of war and terrorism, could disrupt or delay our ability to operate our business and complete projects for our customers and could potentially expose us to third-party liability claims. We may declare the existence of a force majeure event under our contracts in certain situations; however, a customer may dispute our force majeure claim, which may result in additional liabilities. Losses arising from such events may or may not be fully covered by our various insurance policies or may be subject to deductibles or exceed coverage limits. In addition, such events could result in temporary or long-term delays and/or cancellations of orders for raw materials from our suppliers which could impact our project execution. These situations or other disruptions are outside of our control and may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Unforeseen difficulties with expansions, relocations or consolidations of existing facilities could adversely affect our operations.. From time to time we may decide to enter new markets, build or lease additional facilities, expand our existing facilities or relocate or consolidate one or more of our operations. Increased costs and production delays arising from the staffing, relocation, expansion or consolidation of our facilities could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Growth and product diversification through strategic acquisitions involves a number of risks.. Our strategy includes the pursuit of growth and product diversification through the acquisition of companies or assets that will enable us to expand our geographic coverage and product and service offerings. We periodically review potential acquisitions; however, we may be unable to successfully implement this strategy. Acquisitions involve certain risks, including difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; failure to realize cost savings; the termination of relationships by key personnel and customers of the acquired company and a failure to add additional employees to handle the increased volume of business. Additionally, financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as valuation, tax planning, treasury management and financial reporting from our acquisitions may impact our operating results. Due diligence may not be adequate or reveal all risks and challenges associated with our acquisitions. Companies that we acquire may not achieve revenues, profitability or cash flows that we expected, or that ultimately justify the investment. It is possible that impairment charges resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations. Financing for acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing which may not be available on attractive terms, if at all or which may be restricted under the terms of our credit facilities or other financing arrangements. Any failure to successfully complete or successfully integrate acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult to change management.. Because we are governed by Delaware law, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions prohibit a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner.. In addition, provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders might otherwise consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors.. 10. Our stock price could decline or fluctuate significantly due to unforeseen circumstances. These fluctuations may cause our stockholders to incur losses.. Our stock price could fluctuate or decline due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks factors described herein, the timing and cancellation of projects, changes in our estimated costs to complete projects, investors' opinions of the sectors and markets in which we operate or failure of our operating results to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors which could reduce investor confidence. These factors could adversely affect our business and operating results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly.. Obtaining surety bonds, letters of credit, bank guarantees, or other financial assurances, may be necessary for us to successfully bid on and obtain certain contracts.. We are often required to provide our customers security for the performance of their projects in the form of surety bonds, letters of credit or other financial assurances. Our continued ability to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or other financial assurances will depend on our capitalization, working capital, past performance. We are also dependent on the overall bonding capacity, pricing and terms available in the surety markets. As such, we cannot guarantee our ability to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future. The restriction, reduction or termination of our surety bond agreements could limit our ability to bid on new opportunities or increase our letter of credit utilization in lieu of surety bonds, thereby reducing availability under our credit facilities, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Failure to remain in compliance with covenants or obtain waivers or amendments under our credit agreement could adversely impact our business.. Our credit agreement contains various financial covenants and restrictions, which are described in Note F of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our ability to remain in compliance with such financial covenants and restrictions may be affected by factors beyond our control, including general or industry-specific economic downturns. If we fail to remain in compliance with such covenants and restrictions, absent a modification or waiver, this could result in an event of default under the credit agreement. Among other things, the occurrence of an event of default could limit our ability to obtain additional financing or result in acceleration of outstanding amounts under the credit agreement or a termination of the agreement, any of which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, business and results of operations.. Failures or weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our ability to report on our financial condition and results of operations accurately and/or on a timely basis.. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires, among other things, an assessment by our management of our internal control over financial reporting. Preparing our financial statements involves a number of complex processes, many of which are performed manually and are dependent upon individual data input or review. We are continually working to maintain and strengthen our internal controls over financial reporting, however, any system of controls has limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls and/or fraud. Our failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports or have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations."
