[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. An investment in our Company involves risk, including the possibility that the value of the investment could fall substantially. The following are risks that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, cash flows, and the value of, and return on, an investment in our Company.. Risks related to our operations and industry. A prolonged economic recovery or deterioration in the economic or inflationary environment in the Americas or Europe could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our performance may be adversely affected by economic, political or inflationary conditions in any market in which we operate. These conditions could include regulatory developments, changes in global or domestic economic policy, legislative changes, the sovereign debt crises experienced in several European countries and the uncertainty on the future of the EU as a result of the United Kingdom's departure from the EU. Deterioration in economic conditions, a prolonged economic recovery, or a significant rise in inflation could cause personal bankruptcy and insolvency filings to increase, and the ability of consumers to pay their debts could be adversely affected. This may in turn adversely impact our business and financial results. Deteriorating economic conditions or a prolonged recovery could also adversely impact the businesses to which we provide fee-based services, which could reduce our fee income and cash flow.. If global credit market conditions and the stability of global banks deteriorate, it could negatively impact the generation of comprehensive receivable buying opportunities and our business, financial results and ability to succeed in foreign markets could be adversely affected. If conditions in major credit markets deteriorate, the amount of consumer or commercial lending and financing could be reduced, thus decreasing the volume of nonperforming loans available for our purchase.. Other factors associated with the economy that could influence our performance include the financial stability of the lenders on our bank loans and credit facilities and our access to capital and credit. The financial turmoil that adversely affected the banking system and financial markets in recent years resulted in the tightening of credit markets. Although there has been some improvement, a worsening of current conditions could have a negative impact on our business, including a decrease in the value of our financial investments and the insolvency of lending institutions, including the lenders on our bank loans and credit facilities, resulting in our difficulty in or inability to obtain credit. These and other economic factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 9. We may not be able to continually replace our nonperforming loans with additional portfolios sufficient to operate efficiently and profitably, and/or we may not be able to purchase nonperforming loans at appropriate prices.. To operate profitably, we must acquire and service a sufficient amount of nonperforming loans to generate revenue that exceeds our expenses. Fixed costs such as salaries and other compensation expense constitute a significant portion of our overhead and, if we do not replace the nonperforming loan portfolios we service with additional portfolios, we may have to reduce the number of our collection personnel. We would then have to rehire collection staff if we subsequently obtain additional portfolios. These practices could lead to:. • low employee morale;. • fewer experienced employees;. • higher training costs;. • disruptions in our operations;. • loss of efficiency; and. • excess costs associated with unused space in our facilities.. The availability of nonperforming loan portfolios at prices that generate an appropriate return on our investment depends on a number of factors both within and outside of our control, including the following:. • the continuation of high levels of consumer debt obligations;. • sales of nonperforming loan portfolios by debt owners; and. • competitive factors affecting potential purchasers and credit grantors of receivables.. Furthermore, heightened regulation of the credit card and consumer lending industry or changing credit origination strategies may result in decreased availability of credit to consumers, potentially leading to a future reduction in nonperforming loans available for purchase from debt owners. Conversely, lower regulatory barriers with respect to debt buyers could lead to increased participants in the debt collection industry, which could, in turn, impact the supply of nonperforming loans available for purchase. We cannot predict how our ability to identify and purchase nonperforming loans and the quality of those nonperforming loans would be affected if there were a shift in lending practices, whether caused by changes in the regulations or accounting practices applicable to debt owners or debt buyers, a sustained economic downturn or otherwise.. Moreover, there can be no assurance that debt owners will continue to sell their nonperforming loans consistent with recent levels or at all, or that we will be able to bid competitively for those portfolios. Because of the length of time involved in collecting on acquired portfolios and the variability in the timing of our collections, we may not be able to identify trends and make changes in our purchasing strategies in a timely manner. If we are unable to maintain our business or adapt to changing market needs as well as our current or future competitors, we may experience reduced access to nonperforming loan portfolios at appropriate prices and, therefore, reduced profitability.. Currently, a number of large banks that historically sold nonperforming loans in the U.S. are not selling such debt. This includes sellers of bankrupt accounts, some of whom have elected to stop selling such accounts because they believe that regulatory guidance concerning sales of bankruptcy accounts is ambiguous. Should these conditions worsen, it could negatively impact our ability to replace our nonperforming loans with additional portfolios sufficient to operate profitably.. We may not be able to collect sufficient amounts on our nonperforming loans to fund our operations.. Our principal business consists of acquiring and liquidating nonperforming loans that consumers or others have failed to pay. The debt owners have typically made numerous attempts to recover on their receivables, often using a combination of in-house recovery efforts and third-party collection agencies. These nonperforming loans are difficult to collect, and we may not collect a sufficient amount to cover our investment and the costs of running our business.. 10. For financial reporting purposes, we utilize the interest method of revenue recognition for determining our income recognized on finance receivables, which is based on an analysis of projected cash flows that may prove to be less than anticipated and could lead to the incurrence of allowance charges which would reduce our net finance receivables income.. We utilize the interest method to determine income recognized on finance receivables under the guidance of Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification 310-30, \"Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality\" (\"ASC 310-30\"). Under this method, pools of receivables we acquire are modeled upon their projected cash flows. A yield is then established which, when applied to the unamortized purchase price of the receivables, results in the recognition of income at a constant yield relative to the remaining balance in the pool. Each pool is analyzed regularly to assess the actual performance compared to that derived from our models. Under ASC 310-30, rather than lowering the estimated yield if the collection estimates are not received or projected to be received, the carrying value of a pool would be written down to maintain the then current yield and is shown as a reduction in revenue in the consolidated income statements with a corresponding valuation allowance offsetting finance receivables, net, on the consolidated balance sheets. As a result, if the accuracy of the modeling process deteriorates or there is a significant decline in anticipated future cash flows, we could incur reductions in future revenues resulting from additional allowance charges, which could reduce our profitability in a given period.. Our collections may decrease if certain types of insolvency proceedings and bankruptcy filings involving liquidations increase.. Various economic trends and potential changes to existing legislation may contribute to an increase in the amount of personal bankruptcy and insolvency filings. Under certain of these filings, a debtor's assets may be sold to repay creditors, but because most of the receivables we collect through our collections operations are unsecured, we typically would not be able to collect on those receivables. Although our insolvency collections business could benefit from an increase in personal bankruptcies and insolvencies, we cannot ensure that our collections operations business would not decline with an increase in personal insolvencies or bankruptcy filings or changes in related regulations or practices. If our actual collection experience with respect to a nonperforming or insolvent bankrupt receivables portfolio is significantly lower than the total amount we projected when we purchased the portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Our international operations expose us to risks which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the U.S. This could expose us to adverse economic, industry and political conditions that may have a negative impact on our ability to manage our existing operations or pursue alternative strategic transactions, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The global nature of our operations expands the risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this section, including the following:. • changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions in the markets in which we operate, including Europe, Brazil and Canada;. • foreign exchange controls on currency conversion and the transfer of funds that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S. in a tax-efficient manner;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency restructurings, inflation or deflation, and our ability to manage these fluctuations through a foreign exchange risk management program;. • different employee/employer relationships, laws and regulations and existence of employment tribunals and Works Councils;. • laws and regulations imposed by foreign governments, including those governing data security, sharing and transfer;. • potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from changes in tax laws in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or challenges to our interpretations and application of complex international tax laws;. • logistical, communications and other challenges caused by distance and cultural and language differences, each making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions;. • risks related to crimes, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks, wars and natural disasters;. • volatility of global credit markets and the availability of consumer credit and financing in our international markets;. • uncertainty as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws;. 11. • the potential of forced nationalization of certain industries, or the impact on creditors' rights, consumer disposable income levels, flexibility and availability of consumer credit, and the ability to enforce and collect aged or charged-off debts stemming from foreign governmental actions, whether through austerity or stimulus measures or initiative, intended to control or influence macroeconomic factors such as wages, unemployment, national output or consumption, inflation, investment, credit, finance, taxation or other economic drivers;. • the presence of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws on our foreign operations;. • the impact on our day-to-day operations and our ability to staff our international operations given our high employee turnover rates, changing labor conditions and long-term trends towards higher wages in developed and emerging international markets as well as the potential impact of union organizing efforts;. • potential damage to our reputation due to non-compliance with foreign and local laws; and. • the complexity and necessity of using non-U.S. representatives, consultants and other third-party vendors.. Furthermore, our future tax expense could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. The determination of the provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities regarding our global operations requires significant judgment. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may adversely affect our financial results in the period(s) for which such determination is made.. Our tax filings are subject to audit by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes, adjustments to the timing of taxable income or deductions, or re-allocations of income among tax jurisdictions.. Any one of these factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The impact of the Tax Act, including interpretations and determinations by taxing authorities, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States of America signed the Tax Act, which includes a broad range of tax reform provisions affecting businesses, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%; a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; requiring a current inclusion in U.S. federal taxable income of certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations referred to as Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income; creating the base erosion anti-abuse tax, a new minimum tax; creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; and increased limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation.  The Tax Act will impact our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2018 and beyond.  The new law makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code and we expect to see future regulatory, administrative or legislative guidance.  While we expect that the lowering of the U.S. federal tax rate will have a positive impact on our worldwide effective tax rate, we are analyzing the Tax Act to determine the full impact of the new tax law. To the extent any future guidance differs from our preliminary interpretation of the law, it could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations.. In addition, many countries in the EU and around the world have adopted and/or proposed changes to current tax laws.  Further, organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development have published actions that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in those countries. Due to the scale of our U.S. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.. Goodwill or other intangible asset impairment charges could negatively impact our net income and stockholders' equity.. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill as a result of our acquisitions. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. There are numerous risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the recognition of goodwill impairment. These risks include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions, the business climate, or the market for the entity's products or services; significant variances between actual and expected financial results; negative or declining cash flows; lowered expectations of future results; failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions; significant expense increases; a more likely-than-not expectation of selling or disposing all or a portion of a reporting unit; the loss of key personnel; an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; and a sustained decrease in the Company's share price.. 12. Our goodwill impairment testing involves the use of estimates and the exercise of judgment, including judgments regarding expected future business performance and market conditions. Significant changes in our assessment of such factors, including the deterioration of market conditions, could affect our assessment of the fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period.. Other intangible assets, such as client and customer relationships, non-compete agreements and trademarks, are amortized. Risks such as those that could lead to the recognition of goodwill impairment, could also lead to the recognition of other intangible asset impairment.. The vote by the UK to leave the EU, and the ultimate exit of the UK from the EU, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. On June 23, 2016, the UK voted to leave the EU. Although the vote had no binding legal effect, it adversely impacted global markets and resulted in a decline in the value of the British pound as compared to the U.S. dollar and other currencies. The UK's exit negotiations with the EU officially began in June 2017. It is expected that the UK's actual exit from the EU, or Brexit, will take place in March 2019. However, perceptions concerning the impact of the UK's withdrawal from the EU may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the UK, the EU and globally, which could in turn adversely affect European or worldwide political, regulatory, economic and financial market conditions.. As of December 31, 2017, the total estimated remaining collections (\"ERC\") of our UK portfolios constituted approximately 17% of our consolidated ERC. We expect volatility in exchange rates in the short term as the UK negotiates its exit from the EU. A weaker British pound compared to the U.S. dollar during a reporting period could cause local currency results of our UK operations to be translated into fewer U.S. dollars. In the longer term, any impact from Brexit on our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on the final terms negotiated by the UK and the EU, including arrangements concerning taxes and financial services regulation.. Our loss contingency accruals may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. We are involved in judicial, regulatory, and arbitration proceedings or investigations concerning matters arising from our business activities. We believe that we have adopted reasonable compliance policies and procedures and believe we have meritorious defenses in all material litigation pending against us. However, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. We establish accruals for potential liability arising from legal proceedings when it is probable that such liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not accrued a liability. In addition, actual losses may be higher than the amount accrued for a certain matter, or in the aggregate. An unfavorable resolution of a legal proceeding or claim could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For more information, refer to the \"Litigation and Regulatory Matters\" section of Note 14 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K (\"Note 14\").. Class action suits and other litigation could divert our management's attention from operating our business and increase our expenses.. Grantors, nonperforming loan purchasers and third-party collection agencies and attorneys in the consumer credit industry are frequently subject to putative class action lawsuits and other litigation. Claims include failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations and improper or deceptive origination and servicing practices. An unfavorable outcome in a class action suit or other litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. Even when we prevail or the basis for the litigation is groundless, considerable time, energy and resources may be needed to respond, and such class action lawsuits or other litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber-security, could negatively impact our business by disrupting our operations, compromising or corrupting our confidential information or damaging our image, all of which could negatively impact our business and financial results.. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor a large number of transactions across markets and in multiple currencies. As our geographical reach expands, maintaining the security of our systems and infrastructure becomes more significant. Privacy laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere govern the collection and transmission of personal data. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident are operational interruption, damage to our image, and private data exposure. Private data may include customer information, our employees' personally identifiable information, or proprietary business information such as underwriting and collections methodologies. We have implemented solutions, processes, and procedures to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our organization's increased awareness of our risk of a cyber incident do not guarantee that our business, reputation or financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident.. 13. However, should such a cyber incident occur, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to notify affected consumers, modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures. Additionally, we may be subject to fines, penalties, litigation costs and settlements and financial losses that may not be fully covered by our cyber insurance.. Risks associated with governmental regulation and laws. Our ability to collect and enforce our nonperforming loans may be limited under federal, state and foreign laws, regulations and policies.. The businesses conducted by our operating subsidiaries are subject to licensing and regulation by governmental and regulatory bodies in the many jurisdictions in which we operate. Federal and state laws and the laws and regulations of the foreign countries in which we operate may limit our ability to collect on and enforce our rights with respect to our nonperforming loans regardless of any act or omission on our part. Some laws and regulations applicable to credit issuers may preclude us from collecting on nonperforming loans we purchase if the credit issuer previously failed to comply with applicable laws in generating or servicing those receivables. Collection laws and regulations also directly apply to our business. Such laws and regulations are extensive and subject to change. A variety of state, federal and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, transmission, sharing and security of consumer data. Consumer protection and privacy protection laws, changes in the ways that existing rules or laws are interpreted or enforced and any procedures that may be implemented as a result of regulatory consent orders may adversely affect our ability to collect on our nonperforming loans and may harm our business. Our failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to us could limit our ability to collect on our receivables, which could reduce our profitability and harm our business.. Failure to comply with government regulation of the collections industry could result in penalties, fines, litigation, damage to our reputation or the suspension or termination of our ability to conduct our business.. The collections industry throughout the markets in which we operate is governed by various laws and regulations, many of which require us to be a licensed debt collector. Our industry is also at times investigated by regulators and offices of state attorneys general, and subpoenas and other requests or demands for information may be issued by governmental authorities who are investigating debt collection activities. These investigations may result in enforcement actions, fines and penalties, or the assertion of private claims and lawsuits. If any such investigations result in findings that we or our vendors have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties, litigation losses and expenses, damage to our reputation, or the suspension or termination of, or required modification to, our ability to conduct collections, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In a number of jurisdictions, we must maintain licenses to perform debt recovery services and must satisfy related bonding requirements.  Our failure to comply with existing licensing requirements, changing interpretations of existing requirements, or adoption of new licensing requirements, could restrict our ability to collect in certain jurisdictions, subject us to increased regulation, increase our costs, or adversely affect our ability to collect our receivables.. Some laws, among other things, also may limit the interest rate and the fees that a credit grantor may impose on our consumers, limit the time in which we may file legal actions to enforce consumer accounts, and require specific account information for certain collection activities. In addition, local requirements and court rulings in various jurisdictions also may affect our ability to collect.. Regulations and statutes applicable to our industry further provide that, in some cases, consumers cannot be held liable for, or their liability may be limited with respect to, charges to their debt or credit card accounts that resulted from unauthorized use of their credit. These laws, among others, may limit our ability to recover amounts owing with respect to the receivables, whether or not we committed any wrongful act or omission in connection with the account.. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws and regulations discussed above, such failure could result in penalties, litigation losses and expenses, damage to our reputation, or otherwise impact our ability to conduct collections efforts, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Investigations or enforcement actions by governmental authorities may result in changes to our business practices; negatively impact our receivables portfolio purchasing volume; make collection of receivables more difficult; or expose us to the risk of fines, penalties, restitution payments and litigation.. Our debt collection activities and business practices are subject to review from time to time by various governmental authorities and regulators, including the CFPB, which may commence investigations or enforcement actions or reviews targeted at businesses in the financial services industry. These reviews may involve governmental authority consideration of individual consumer complaints, or could involve a broader review of our debt collection policies and practices. Such investigations could lead to. 14. assertions by governmental authorities that we are not complying with applicable laws or regulations. In such circumstances, authorities may request or seek to impose a range of remedies that could involve potential compensatory or punitive damage claims, fines, restitution payments, sanctions or injunctive relief, that if agreed to or granted, could require us to make payments or incur other expenditures that could have an adverse effect on our financial position. The CFPB has the authority to obtain cease and desist orders (which can include orders for restitution or rescission of contracts, as well as other kinds of affirmative relief), recover costs, and impose monetary penalties (ranging from $5,000 per day to over $1 million per day, depending on the nature and gravity of the violation). In addition, where a company has violated Title X of the Dodd-Frank Act or CFPB regulations implemented thereunder, the Dodd-Frank Act empowers state attorneys general and other state regulators to bring civil actions to remedy violations under state law. Government authorities could also request or seek to require us to cease certain of our practices or institute new practices. Negative publicity relating to investigations or proceedings brought by governmental authorities could have an adverse impact on our reputation, could harm our ability to conduct business with industry participants, and could result in financial institutions reducing or eliminating sales of receivables portfolios to us which would harm our business and negatively impact our results of operations. Moreover, changing or modifying our internal policies or procedures, responding to governmental inquiries and investigations and defending lawsuits or other proceedings could require significant efforts on the part of management and result in increased costs to our business. In addition, such efforts could divert management's full attention from our business operations. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. The CFPB has issued civil investigative demands to many companies that it regulates, and is currently examining practices regarding the collection of consumer debt. In September 2015, we entered into the Consent Order with the CFPB settling a previously disclosed investigation of certain debt collection practices of PRA. The Consent Order resulted in the payment of $19 million in consumer refunds and an $8 million penalty. In addition, we were required to cease collection of approximately $3 million of consumer debt and modify some of our collections practices. Although we have implemented the requirements of the Consent Order, there can be no assurance that additional litigation or new industry regulations currently under consideration by the CFPB would not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.  In addition, the CFPB monitors our compliance with the Consent Order and could make a determination that we have failed to adhere to our obligations. Such a determination could result in additional inquiries, penalties or liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Compliance with complex and evolving foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations could increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions.. We operate on a global basis with offices and activities in a number of jurisdictions throughout the Americas and Europe. We face increased exposure to risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, which could increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include those related to taxation and anti-corruption laws such as the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. Given the complexity of these laws, there is a risk that we may inadvertently breach certain provisions of these laws, such as through the negligent behavior of an employee or our failure to comply with certain formal documentation requirements. Violations of these laws and regulations by us, any of our employees or our third-party vendors, either inadvertently or intentionally, could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our operations and limits on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries. Violations of these laws could also adversely affect our business, brand, international expansion efforts, ability to attract and retain employees and results of operations.. Risks associated with indebtedness. We utilize bank loans, credit facilities and convertible notes to finance our business activities, which could negatively impact our liquidity and business operations if we are unable to retain, renegotiate, expand or replace our bank loans and credit facilities or raise the necessary funds to repurchase the convertible notes.. As described in Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, our sources of financing include a North American credit facility, a European multicurrency revolving credit facility and convertible senior notes.  The credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on how we operate our business and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Failure to satisfy any one of these covenants could result in negative consequences including the following:. • acceleration of outstanding indebtedness;. • exercise by our lenders of rights with respect to the collateral pledged under certain of our outstanding indebtedness;. • our inability to continue to purchase nonperforming loans needed to operate our business; or. 15. • our inability to secure alternative financing on favorable terms, if at all.. If we are unable to retain, renegotiate, expand or replace our credit facilities, including as a result of failure to satisfy the restrictive covenants contained in them, our liquidity and business operations could be impacted negatively.. We have additional indebtedness in the form of Convertible Senior Notes due 2020 and 2023 (collectively the \"Notes\") and may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change or to settle conversions in cash.  Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to make cash payments in connection with any conversion of the Notes depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control.  Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at that time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.  In addition, in the event the conditional conversion features of the Notes are triggered, holders of the Notes are entitled to convert the Notes into shares of our common stock at any time during specified periods at their option, subject to the terms of the indenture governing the Notes. Upon conversion, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares of our common stock), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase Notes surrendered to settle conversions in cash, and our ability to repurchase the Notes or pay cash upon conversion may be limited by law. Any issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Notes would dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders.. We may be restricted from paying cash upon conversion of the Notes, repurchasing the Notes for cash when required and repaying the Notes at maturity or upon acceleration following an event of default under the Notes unless we repay all amounts outstanding under, and terminate, our North American Credit Agreement, and our future indebtedness may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes and on our ability to repurchase the Notes.. The terms of our North American Credit Agreement prohibit us from paying cash upon conversion of the Notes, repurchasing the Notes for cash when required upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and repaying the Notes at maturity or upon acceleration following an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes if a default or an event of default exists on the date of such required payment, repurchase or repayment, as applicable, or certain other conditions are not met, including pro forma compliance with the financial covenants and having \"Sufficient Liquidity\" (described below). As a result, we will be restricted from making such payments unless the default or event of default under our North American Credit Agreement is cured or waived, such conditions are met and/or we repay all amounts then outstanding under, and terminate, our North American Credit Agreement.. In addition, under our North American Credit Agreement our ability to settle conversions of the Notes in cash requires that immediately prior to any such conversion, our cash and cash equivalents (including our availability under our domestic and multi-currency revolving facilities under our North American Credit Agreement) be at least 115% of the sum of the principal amount of the Notes to be paid in cash (\"Sufficient Liquidity\"). The terms of any additional indebtedness incurred as permitted by our North American Credit Agreement may contain similar or more onerous restrictions than the foregoing.. Our failure to repurchase Notes, to pay, when due, cash upon conversion of the Notes or repay the Notes at maturity or upon acceleration following an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes would constitute a default under the indenture governing the Notes. A default under the indenture may constitute a default under our North American Credit Agreement.. Changes in interest rates could increase our interest expense and reduce our net income.. Our revolving credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. Increases in interest rates could increase our interest expense which would, in turn, lower our earnings. From time to time, we may enter into hedging transactions to mitigate our interest rate risk on all or a portion of our debt. Hedging strategies rely on assumptions and projections. If these assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect or our hedges do not adequately mitigate the impact of changes in interest rates, we may experience volatility in our earnings that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition."
