[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Due to the size and geographic reach of the company's operations, a wide range of factors, many of which are outside of the company's control, could materially affect the company's future operations and financial performance. Management believes the following risks may significantly impact the company:. General Economic Conditions  -  Weakening economic conditions in markets in which the company does business may adversely impact the company's financial results and/or cash flows.. Praxair serves a diverse group of industries across more than 50 countries which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles. However, a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers could adversely affect the demand for Praxair's products and impair the ability of our customers to satisfy their obligations to the company, resulting in uncollected receivables and/or unanticipated contract terminations or project delays. In addition, many of the company's customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, electronics, metals and energy industries. Downturns in these industries may adversely impact the company during these cycles. Additionally, such conditions could impact the utilization of the company's manufacturing capacity which may require the company to recognize impairment losses on tangible assets such as property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets such as goodwill, customer relationships or intellectual property.. Cost and Availability of Raw Materials and Energy  -  Increases in the cost of energy and raw materials and/or disruption in the supply of these materials could result in lost sales or reduced profitability.. Energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. Most of Praxair's energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. Praxair attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts and reducing demand through operational productivity and energy efficiency. Large customer contracts typically have escalation and pass-through clauses to recover energy and feedstock costs. Such attempts may not successfully mitigate cost variability which could negatively impact its financial condition or results of operations. The supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where it conducts business. However, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk.. For carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen, specialty gases and surface technologies, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. Where feasible, Praxair sources several of these raw materials, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen and calcium carbide, as chemical or industrial byproducts. In addition, Praxair has contracts or commitments for, or readily available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. A disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact the company's ability to meet contractual supply commitments.. International Events and Circumstances  -  The company's international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad and international events and circumstances may adversely impact its business, financial condition or results of operations.. Praxair has substantial international operations which are subject to risks including devaluations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, possible nationalization and/or expropriation of assets, domestic and international tax laws and compliance with governmental regulations. These events could have an adverse effect on international operations in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products, reducing the U.S. dollar value of revenue from international operations or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business.. Global Financial Markets Conditions  -  Macroeconomic factors may impact the company's ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact the company's financial results and/or cash flows.. Volatility and disruption in the U.S. and global credit and equity markets, from time to time, could make it more difficult for Praxair to obtain financing for its operations and/or could increase the cost of obtaining financing.  In addition, the company's borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on the company's performance as measured by certain criteria such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing or make it more difficult to obtain financing. While the impact of volatility in the global credit markets cannot be predicted with certainty, the company believes that it has sufficient operating flexibility, cash reserves, and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity to meet its business needs around the world.. 7. Table of Contents. Competitor Actions  -  The inability to effectively compete could adversely impact results of operations.. Praxair operates within a highly competitive environment worldwide. Competition is based on price, product quality, delivery, reliability, technology and service to customers. Competitors' behavior related to these areas could potentially have significant impacts on the company's financial results.. Governmental Regulations  -  The company is subject to a variety of United States and foreign government regulations. Changes in these regulations could have an adverse impact on the business, financial position and results of operations.. The company is subject to regulations in the following areas, among others:. • Environmental protection including climate change;. • Domestic and international tax laws and currency controls;. • Safety;. • Securities laws (e.g., SEC and generally accepted accounting principles in the United States);. • Trade and import/ export restrictions;. • Antitrust matters;. • Global anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • Healthcare regulations. Changes in these or other regulatory areas may impact the company's profitability, may require the company to spend additional resources to comply with the regulations, or may restrict the company's ability to compete effectively in the marketplace. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or sanctions that could have an adverse impact on the company's financial results and/or reputation. Environmental protection is discussed further below.. Praxair is subject to various environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air or water, the storage, handling and disposal of chemicals, hazardous substances and wastes, the remediation of contamination, the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, and other potential climate change initiatives. Violations of these laws could result in substantial penalties, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, or sanctions. The company may also be subject to liability for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at properties that it owns or operates and at other properties where Praxair or its predecessors have operated or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes. Although management does not believe that any such liabilities will have a material adverse impact on its financial position and results of operations, management cannot provide assurance that such costs will not increase in the future or will not become material. See the section captioned \"Management's Discussion and Analysis  -  Environmental Matters\" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. Catastrophic Events  -  Catastrophic events could disrupt the operations of the company and/or its customers and suppliers and may have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations.. The occurrence of catastrophic events or natural disasters such as extreme weather, including hurricanes and floods; health epidemics; acts of war or terrorism; could disrupt or delay the company's ability to produce and distribute its products to customers and could potentially expose the company to third-party liability claims. In addition, such events could impact the company's customers and suppliers resulting in temporary or long-term outages and/or the limitation of supply of energy and other raw materials used in normal business operations. To mitigate these risks, Praxair evaluates the direct and indirect business risks through business impact analysis and conducts regular reviews of these business risks with management. Subsequently, Praxair establishes policies and sets priorities; consults with vendors, insurance providers and industry experts; and makes investments in facilities with suitably resilient design and technology, in order to reduce such impact to the business. Despite these steps, however, these situations are outside the company's control and may have a significant adverse impact on the company's financial results.. Retaining Qualified Personnel  -  The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may adversely impact the company's business.. If Praxair fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, the company may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. Praxair is dependent upon its highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. Much of Praxair's competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of its key personnel regarding its marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. The inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on the company's financial results.. 8. Table of Contents. Technological Advances  -  If the company fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy the company's products and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Praxair's research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases and the development of new markets and applications for the use of these gases. This results in the frequent introduction of new industrial gas applications and the development of new advanced air separation process technologies. The company also conducts research and development for its surface technologies to improve the quality and durability of coatings and the use of specialty powders for new applications and industries. As a result of these efforts, the company develops new and proprietary technologies and employs necessary measures to protect such technologies within the global geographies in which the company operates. These technologies help Praxair to create a competitive advantage and to provide a platform for the company to grow its business. If Praxair's research and development activities do not keep pace with competitors or if it does not create new technologies that benefit customers, future results of operations could be adversely affected.. Litigation and Governmental Investigations  -  The outcomes of litigation and governmental investigations may affect the company's financial results.. Praxair is subject to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising out of the normal course of business that may result in adverse outcomes. These actions are based upon alleged environmental, tax, antitrust and personal injury claims, among others. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect its ability to conduct business. While management currently believes that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on the company's financial position or liquidity, the litigation and other claims Praxair faces are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future. There exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable.. Tax Liabilities  -  Potential tax liabilities could adversely impact the company's financial position and results of operations.. Praxair is subject to income and other taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  The determination of the company's worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires judgment and is based on diverse legislative and regulatory structures that exist in the various jurisdictions where the company operates, including the recently enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Although management believes its estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in its financial statements and may materially affect the company's financial results for the period when such determination is made. See Notes 5 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements of this Form 10-K.. Pension Liabilities  -  Risks related to our pension benefit plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Pension benefits represent significant financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. Because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments and asset returns, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to the company's plans. The company utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. Several key assumptions are used in the actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, significant changes in actual investment returns on pension assets, discount rates, or legislative or regulatory changes could impact future results of operations and required pension contributions. For information regarding the potential impacts regarding significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rates and the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, see \"Critical Accounting Policies  -  Pension Benefits\" included in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. Operational Risks  -  Operational risks may adversely impact the company's business or results of operations.. Praxair's operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production facilities and its ability to meet customer contract requirements and other needs. Insufficient or excess capacity threatens the company's ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose the company to liabilities related to contract commitments. Operating results are also dependent on the company's ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with performance requirements. Failure to do so may expose the business to loss of revenue, potential litigation and loss of business reputation.. 9. Table of Contents. Also inherent in the management of the company's production facilities and delivery systems, including storage, vehicle transportation and pipelines, are operational risks that require continuous training, oversight and control. Material operating failures at production, storage facilities or pipelines, including fire, toxic release and explosions, or the occurrence of vehicle transportation accidents could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, loss of production and/or extensive property damage, all of which may negatively impact the company's financial results.. Information Technology Systems  -  The Company may be subject to information technology system (\"IT\") failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security.. Praxair relies on IT systems and networks for business and operational activities, and also stores and processes sensitive business and proprietary information in these systems and networks. These systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of security. Management has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery process. Despite these steps, however, operational failures and breaches of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential information, result in regulatory actions and have a material adverse impact on Praxair's operations, reputation and financial results.. Acquisitions and Joint Ventures  -  The inability to effectively integrate acquisitions or collaborate with joint venture partners could adversely impact the company's financial position and results of operations.. Praxair has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. Many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Although historically the company has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where the company may face risks include:. • The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies;. • Diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges;. • Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization;. • The need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management;. • Difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products;. • Failure to achieve targeted synergies; and. • Inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies.. Foreign acquisitions and joint ventures involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Also, the anticipated benefit of the company's acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairments of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact the company's financial results.. Proposed business combination with Linde - Risks in connection with the proposed business combination may adversely impact Praxair's business, financial condition and results of operations.. On June 1, 2017, Praxair and Linde AG (Linde) entered into a definitive business combination agreement, as amended, pursuant to which, among other things, Praxair and Linde agreed to combine their respective businesses through an all-stock transaction, and become subsidiaries of a new holding company incorporated in Ireland, Linde plc.  The parties currently expect the business combination to be completed in the second half of 2018. The proposed business combination with Linde involves certain risks, which may adversely impact Praxair's business, financial condition and results of operations, and the combined company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination if and when the combination is completed. Risks in connection with the proposed business combination, which may result in significant costs and delays, include:. 10. Table of Contents. • the expected timing and likelihood of the receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed business combination that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the transaction;. • the risk that the parties may not be able to satisfy the conditions to closing of the proposed business combination in a timely manner or at all;. • the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the business combination agreement;. • the ability to successfully complete the proposed business combination, including regulatory or other limitations imposed as a result of the proposed business combination;. • the success of the combined company's business following the proposed business combination, including the ability to successfully integrate the Praxair and Linde businesses;. • the risk that events and publicity in connection with the proposed business combination could have adverse effects on the market price of Linde's or Praxair's common stock or the ability of Linde and Praxair to retain customers, retain or hire key personnel, maintain relationships with their respective suppliers and customers, and on their operating results and businesses generally;. • the risk that the combined company may be unable to achieve expected synergies or that it may take longer or be more costly than expected to achieve those synergies.. 11. Table of Contents"
