[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Due to the Company's dependency on the energy and telecommunication industries, the Company is susceptible to negative trends relating to those industries that could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company's sales to the energy and telecommunication industries represent a substantial portion of the Company's historical sales. The concentration of revenue in such industries is expected to continue into the foreseeable future.  Demand for products to these industries depends primarily on capital spending by customers for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading their systems.  The amount of capital spending and, therefore, the Company's sales and profitability are affected by a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, access by customers to financing, government regulation, demand for energy and cable services, energy prices and technological factors.  As a result, some customers may significantly reduce their spending or may not continue as going concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.  In addition, the Company may incur exit-related costs and impairments of goodwill, definite and indefinite-lived intangible assets and property, fixtures and equipment as the Company makes corresponding changes to its business to reflect these changes and uncertainties in the Company's industries and customer demand, and these costs and impairments could have a significant negative impact on the Company's results for the period in which they are incurred.  Consolidation presents an additional risk to the Company in that merged customers will rely on relationships with a source other than the Company.  Consolidation may also increase the pressure on suppliers, such as the Company, to sell product at lower prices.. The Company's business will suffer if the Company fails to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced products that meet the changing needs of the Company's customers.. The Company's ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis is a significant factor in the Company's ability to grow and remain competitive.  New product development often requires long-term forecasting of market trends, development and implementation of new designs and processes and a substantial capital commitment.  The trend toward consolidation of the energy, telecommunication and data communication industries may require the Company to quickly adapt to rapidly changing market conditions and customer requirements.  Any failure by the Company to anticipate or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to technological developments or changes in industry standards or customer requirements, or any significant delays in product development or introduction or any failure of new products to be widely accepted by the Company's customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition as a result of reduced net sales.. The intense competition in the Company's markets, particularly telecommunication, may lead to a reduction in sales and earnings.. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive.  The level of intensity of competition may increase in the foreseeable future due to anticipated growth in the telecommunication and data communication industries.  The Company's competitors in the telecommunication and data communication markets are larger companies with significant influence over the distribution network.  The Company may not be able to compete successfully against its competitors, many of which may have access to greater financial resources than the Company.  In addition, the pace of technological development in the telecommunication market is rapid and these advances (i.e., wireless, fiber optic network infrastructure, etc.) may adversely affect the Company's ability to compete in this market.. Competitors' introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products or products under development obsolete or unmarketable and result in lost sales.. The energy and telecommunication industries are characterized by rapid technological change.   Satellite, wireless and other communication technologies currently being deployed may represent a threat to copper, coaxial and fiber optic-based systems by reducing the need for wire-line networks.  Future advances or further development of these or other new technologies may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition as a result of lost sales.. Price increases or decreased availability of raw materials could result in lower earnings.. The Company's cost of sales may be materially adversely affected by increases in the market prices of the raw materials used in the Company's manufacturing processes.  The Company may not be able to pass on price increases in raw materials to the Company's customers through increases in product prices.  As a result, the Company's operating results could be adversely affected.  In addition, any decrease or delay in the availability of these materials could slow production and delivery to the Company's customers.. 12. The Company's international operations subject the Company to additional business risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.. International sales account for a substantial portion of the Company's net sales (61%, 60% and 60% in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively) and the Company expects these sales could increase as a percentage of net sales in the future.  Due to its international sales, the Company is subject to the risks of conducting business internationally, including unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, which could materially adversely affect U.S. dollar sales or operating expenses, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, potentially longer payment cycles, greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection, reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights, potentially adverse taxes and the burdens of complying with a variety of international laws and communications standards.  The Company is subject to foreign currency volatility which could materially impact the Company's results.  The Company is also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability, social unrest, terrorism and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, in connection with its international operations.  These risks of conducting business internationally may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that it may acquire in the future or complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.. A portion of the Company's growth in sales and earnings has been generated from acquisitions.  The Company expects to continue a strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products.  In connection with this strategy, the Company faces certain risks and uncertainties relating to acquisitions.  The factors affecting this exposure are in addition to the risks faced in the Company's day-to-day operations.  Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including the risks pertaining to integrating acquired businesses, realizing the benefits of acquired technology and utilizing new personnel.  In addition, the Company may incur debt to finance future acquisitions, and the Company may issue securities in connection with future acquisitions that may dilute the holdings of current and future shareholders.  Covenant restrictions relating to additional indebtedness could restrict the Company's ability to pay dividends, fund capital expenditures, consummate additional acquisitions and significantly increase the Company's interest expense.  Any failure to successfully complete acquisitions or to successfully integrate such strategic acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition.. The Company may have interruptions in or lose business due to the uncertainty of the global economy, specifically related to the lack of available funding for the Company's customers.. The demand for the Company's products is significantly affected by the amount of discretionary business and consumer spending, each of which is impacted by the uncertainty of the global economy.  The liquidity and financial position of the Company's customers could also impact their ability to pay in full and/or on a timely basis.  This lack of funding could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may be adversely impacted by laws, regulation, and litigation.. The Company is subject to various laws and regulation.  For example, extensive environmental regulations related to air and water quality, the discharge of pollutants, the handling of toxic waste and the handling and transport of products and components classified as hazardous impact its daily operations.  The introduction of new laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations, could increase the costs of doing business.  At any given time, we may also be subject to litigation or claims related to our products, suppliers, customers, employees, shareholders, distributors, sales representatives, intellectual property or acquisitions, among other things, the disposition of which may have an adverse effect upon our business, financial condition, or results of operation. The outcome of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify. Lawsuits can result in the payment of substantial damages by defendants. If we are required to pay substantial damages and expenses as a result of these or other types of lawsuits, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations. Insurance may not be available at all or in sufficient amounts to cover any liabilities with respect to these or other matters. A judgment or other liability in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could adversely affect our business and the results of our operations.. The Company may not be able to successfully manage its intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.. The Company relies on a combination of contractual rights and patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws to establish and protect its proprietary technology. Third parties may challenge, invalidate, circumvent, infringe or misappropriate the Company's intellectual property, or such intellectual property may not be sufficient to permit the Company to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Others, including its competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate or. 13. design around the Company's intellectual property, and in such cases it could not assert its intellectual property rights against such parties. The Company may also be subject to costly litigation in the event its technology infringes upon or otherwise violate a third party's proprietary rights. Any claim from third parties may result in a limitation on its ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims.  The Company may be forced to litigate to enforce or determine the scope and enforceability of its intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how, which is expensive, could cause a diversion of resources and may not prove successful, especially in countries where such rights are more difficult to enforce. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to obtain third party intellectual property could harm its business and ability to compete.. Tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, and administrative practices in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating the provision and accruals for these taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company's effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including but not limited to, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of its foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where the Company have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where the Company has higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which the Company is not able to realize the related tax benefit, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in its deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, and changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations.  In addition, a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the recently enacted U.S. tax reform legislation commonly referred to as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"). Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the Tax Act that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect the Company's financial position and results of operations.. The Tax Act significantly changes how the U.S. imposes taxes on corporations. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from the Company's interpretation. As the Company completes its analysis of the Tax Act, collects and prepares necessary data and interprets any additional guidance, the Company may make adjustments to provisional amounts that have been recorded which could materially impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.. The Company employs information technology systems to support its business, and any material breach, interruption or failure may adversely impact the Company's business.. The Company employs information technology systems to support its business. Security breaches and other disruptions to the Company's information technology infrastructure could interfere with the Company's operations, and compromise information belonging to the Company and its customers, suppliers and employees, exposing the Company to liability which could adversely impact the Company's business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business, the Company relies on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Additionally, the Company collects and stores certain data, including proprietary business information, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of its businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls.  Despite the Company's cybersecurity measures, which are continuously reviewed and upgraded, the Company's information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attack by hackers or breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, service providers including cloud services, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. It is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period, up to and including several years.  Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to the Company's reputation, which could adversely affect the Company's business."
