[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The high level of competition in our industry, much of which comes from competitors with greater resources, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The business of selling brand name consumer products in the OTC Healthcare and Household Cleaning categories is highly competitive.  These markets include numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers and retailers that actively compete for consumers' business both in the United States and abroad.  Many of these competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do, and may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively on research and development, advertising and marketing, and to respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions.  If this were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Certain of our product lines that account for a large percentage of our sales have a smaller market share relative to our competitors.  In some cases we may have a number one market position but still have a relatively small share of the overall market.  Alternatively, we may hold a number two market position but have a substantially smaller share of the market versus the number one competitor.  See \"Part I, Item 1. Business - Major Brands\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding market share.. We compete for customers' attention based on a number of factors, including brand recognition, product quality, performance, value to customers, price and product availability at the retail level.  Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging and the timing of new product introductions and line extensions also have a significant impact on consumer buying decisions and, as a result, on our sales.  Our markets are highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market.  New product innovations by our competitors or our failure to develop new products or the failure of a new product launch by the Company, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  If our advertising, marketing and promotional programs are not effective, our sales may decline.  In addition, the introduction or expansion of store brand products that compete with our products has impacted and could in the future impact our sales and results of operations.. The structure and quality of our sales force, as well as sell-through of our products, affect in-store position, wall display space and inventory levels in retail stores.  If we are unable to maintain our current distribution network, product offerings in retail stores, inventory levels and in-store positioning of our products, our sales and operating results could be adversely affected.. In addition, competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by us.  Competitive pricing may require us to reduce prices, which may result in lost revenue or a reduction of our profit margins.  Future price adjustments by our competitors or our inability to react with price adjustments of our own could result in a loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on a limited number of customers with whom we have no long-term agreements for a large portion of our gross sales, and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce our gross sales and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. During 2018, one customer, Walmart, which accounted for approximately 23.8% of our gross sales, was our only customer that accounted for more than 10% of our gross revenues.  We expect that for future periods, our top ten customers, including Walmart, will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large and potentially increasing portion of our sales.  The loss of one or more of these top customers, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers based on changes in their strategies including a reduction in the number of brands they carry, the amount of shelf space they dedicate to store brand products, inventory management, or a significant decrease in our retail display space in any of these customers' stores, could reduce our sales and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders.  We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers.  Accordingly, our customers could cease buying products or reduce the number of items they buy from us at any time and for any reason.  The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with our customers means that we have no recourse in the event a customer no longer wants to purchase products from us or reduces the number of items purchased.  If a significant number of our smaller customers, or any of our significant customers, elect not to purchase products from us, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We primarily depend on third-party manufacturers to produce the products we sell.  If we are unable to maintain these manufacturing relationships or fail to enter into additional relationships, as necessary, we may be unable to meet customer demand and our business, sales and profitability could suffer as a result.. 15. Many of our products are produced by a limited number of third-party manufacturers.  Our ability to retain our current manufacturing relationships and engage in and successfully transition to new relationships is critical to our ability to deliver quality products to our customers in a timely manner.  Without adequate supplies of quality merchandise, our sales would decrease materially and our business would suffer.  In the event that our primary third-party manufacturers are unable or unwilling to ship products to us in a timely manner, we would have to rely on secondary manufacturing relationships or, to the extent unavailable, identify and qualify new manufacturing relationships.  Because of the unique manufacturing requirements of certain products, the Company may be unable to qualify new suppliers in a timely way or at the quantities, quality and price levels needed.  From time to time, certain of the Company's manufacturers have had difficulty meeting demand, which can cause shortages of our products.  In such instances, we may not be able to identify or qualify secondary manufacturers for such products in a timely manner, and such manufacturers may not allocate sufficient capacity to allow us to meet our commitments to customers.  In addition, identifying alternative manufacturers without adequate lead times may involve additional manufacturing expense, delay in production or product disadvantage in the marketplace.  For example, we are moving our BC®/Goody's® product lines to a new third party manufacturer.  Any delays or issues with the transition may have an adverse impact on sales of the products.  In general, the consequences of not securing adequate, high quality and timely supplies of merchandise would negatively impact inventory levels, which could damage our reputation and result in lost customers and sales, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The manufacturers we use have increased the cost of many of the products we purchase, which could adversely affect our margins in the event we are unable to pass along these increased costs to our customers or identify and qualify new manufacturers.  Increased costs could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. At March 31, 2018, we had relationships with 116 third-party manufacturers.  Of those, we had long-term contracts with 46 manufacturers that produced items that accounted for approximately 73.6% of our gross sales for 2018, compared to 47 manufacturers with long-term contracts that produced approximately 78.4% of gross sales in 2017.  The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with certain manufacturers means that they could cease manufacturing our products at any time and for any reason or initiate arbitrary and costly price increases, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  Although we are in the process of negotiating long-term contracts with certain key manufacturers, we may not be able to reach a timely agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our inability to successfully identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisition candidates and to obtain necessary financing could have an adverse impact on our growth and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Achievement of our strategic objectives requires the acquisition, or potentially the disposition, of certain brands or product lines, and these acquisitions and dispositions may not be successful.. The majority of our growth has been driven by acquiring other brands and companies. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions that are intended to enhance our product portfolio, enable us to realize cost savings, and further diversify our category, customer and channel focus. Our ability to successfully grow through acquisitions depends on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisition candidates and to obtain any necessary financing. However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions at attractive valuations, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or otherwise complete future acquisitions. These acquisition efforts could also divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. All acquisitions entail various risks such that after completing an acquisition, we may also experience:. • Difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, suppliers, personnel and products into our existing business;. • Difficulties in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products, including expected returns, margins, synergies and profitability;. •  Higher costs of integration than we anticipated;. •  Exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired business;. •  Difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to operate the business;. •  Difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout our acquired companies;  or. •  Adverse customer or stockholder reaction to the acquisition.. 16. As a result, any acquisitions we pursue or complete could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results from operations. In addition, any acquisition could adversely affect our operating results as a result of higher interest costs from any acquisition-related debt and higher amortization expenses related to the acquired intangible assets.. In the event that we decide to divest of a brand or product line, we may encounter difficulty finding, or be unable to find, a buyer on acceptable terms in a timely manner.. Additionally, the pursuit of acquisitions and divestitures could also divert management's attention from our business operations and result in a delay in our efforts to achieve our strategic objectives.. Price increases for raw materials, labor, energy, transportation costs and other manufacturer, logistics provider or distributor demands could have an adverse impact on our margins.. The costs to manufacture and distribute our products are subject to fluctuation based on a variety of factors.  Increases in commodity raw material (including resins), packaging component prices, and labor, energy and fuel costs and other input costs could have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations if our third party manufacturers, logistics providers or distributors pass along those costs to us.  In addition, while we have historically outsourced the manufacturing of our products to third parties, as a result of our acquisition of Fleet, we now operate a manufacturing facility and we will directly incur any increases in manufacturing costs for these products. If we are unable to increase the price for our products to our customers or continue to achieve cost savings in a rising cost environment, any such cost increases would reduce our gross margins and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we increase the price of our products in order to maintain our current gross margins for our products, such increase may adversely affect demand for, and sales of, our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Disruption in our St. Louis distribution center or our Virginia manufacturing facility may prevent us from meeting customer demand, and our sales and profitability may suffer as a result.. Our product distribution in the United States is managed by a third party through one primary distribution center near St. Louis, Missouri, and with the acquisition of Fleet, we now operate one manufacturing facility located in Lynchburg, Virginia, which manufactures products comprising approximately two-thirds of Fleet's sales.   A serious disruption, caused by performance or contractual issues with the third party distribution manager or by earthquake, flood, or fire, could damage our inventory and/or materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost.  For example, we previously identified the integration of Fleet as one factor that could create significant disruption.   We also reported in 2017, that the third party distribution manager experienced a high rate of employee turnover and a tightened freight carrier market that caused us to experience significantly increased warehouse and shipping costs. Any disruption as a result of business integration or third party performance at our distribution center could result in increased costs, expense and/or shipping times, and could cause us to incur customer fees and penalties.  In addition, any serious disruption to our Fleet manufacturing facility could materially impair our ability to manufacture many of the Fleet products, which would also limit our ability to provide products to customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost.  We could also incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times should we be required to reopen or replace our primary distribution center, the third party distribution manager or the manufacturing facility.  As a result, any serious disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our risks associated with doing business internationally increase as we expand our international footprint.. During 2018, 2017, and 2016, approximately 8.8%, 8.4% and 7.4%, respectively, of our total revenues were attributable to our international business.  As of July 1, 2013, we acquired Care Pharmaceuticals, which markets and sells healthcare products in Australia.  On April 30, 2014, we acquired the Hydralyte brand in Australia and New Zealand.  On February 5, 2016, we acquired DenTek, which increases our geographic reach in parts of Europe.  In addition, on January 26, 2017, we acquired Fleet, which has operations in Singapore.  We generally rely on brokers and distributors for the sale of our products in foreign countries.  In addition, some of our third party manufacturers are located outside the United States.  Risks of doing business internationally include:. • Political instability or declining economic conditions in the countries or regions where we operate that adversely affect sales of our products;. • Currency controls that restrict or prohibit the payment of funds or the repatriation of earnings to the United States;. • Fluctuating foreign exchange rates that result in unfavorable increases in the price of our products or cause increases in the cost of certain products purchased from our foreign third-party manufacturers;. 17. • Compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices;. • Trade restrictions and exchange controls;. • Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. • Difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights in these markets; and. • Increased costs of compliance with general business and tax regulations in these countries or regions.. If new products and product line extensions do not gain widespread customer acceptance or are otherwise discontinued, the Company's financial performance could be impacted.. The Company's future performance and growth depends on its ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product line extensions.  We cannot be certain that we will achieve our innovation goals.  The successful development and introduction of new products involves substantial research, development, marketing and promotional expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recover if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance.  New product development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks.  These risks include product development or launch delays, competitor actions, regulatory approval hurdles and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance.. Regulatory matters governing our industry could have a significant negative effect on our sales and operating costs.. In both the United States and in our foreign markets, our operations are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints.  Such laws, regulations and other constraints exist at the federal, state and local levels in the United States and at analogous levels of government in foreign jurisdictions.. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, marketing, sale and storage of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various U.S. federal agencies, including the FDA, FTC and CPSC, the EPA, and by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed, stored and sold.  The FDC Act and FDA regulations require that the manufacturing processes of our facilities and third-party manufacturers of U.S. products must also comply with the FDA's GMPs.  The FDA inspects our facilities and those of our third-party manufacturers periodically to determine if we and our third-party manufacturers are complying with GMPs.  The health regulatory bodies of other countries have their own regulations and standards, which may or may not be consistent with the U.S. FDA GMPs.  A history of general compliance in the past is not a guarantee that future GMPs will not mandate other compliance steps and associated expense.. If we or our third-party manufacturers or distributors fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could become subject to enforcement actions, significant penalties or claims, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we could be required to:. • Suspend manufacturing operations;. • Modify product formulations or processes;. • Suspend the sale or require a recall of products with non-complying specifications; or. • Change product labeling, packaging, marketing, or advertising, recall non-compliant products, or take other corrective action.. The adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or the cessation of product sales and may adversely affect the marketing of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, although our Virginia manufacturing facility had passed audits by Brazilian regulators in the past, it was audited in 2017 and deemed noncompliant with Brazilian standards as to the manufacture of one of the products. As a result, the regulators required a recall of a specific product on the Brazilian market. We do not believe this event will have a material adverse impact on our business or results but future audits may impact other products or markets in the future.  As with any such matter, we complete a risk analysis to mitigate the potential for impact beyond the affected market.. 18. In addition, our failure to comply with FDA, FTC, EPA or any other federal and state regulations, or with similar regulations in foreign markets, that cover our product registration, product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties, litigation by private parties, or otherwise materially adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Product liability claims and product recalls and related negative publicity could adversely affect our sales and operating results.. We are dependent on consumers' perception of the safety and quality of our products.  Negative consumer perception may arise from product liability claims and product recalls, regardless of whether such claims or recalls involve us or our products.  The mere publication of information asserting concerns about the safety of our products or the ingredients used in our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  For example, some of our products contain the active ingredient acetaminophen, which is a pain reliever and fever reducer.  We believe our products are safe and effective when used in accordance with label directions.  However, adverse publicity about acetaminophen or other ingredients used in our products may discourage consumers from buying our products containing those ingredients, which would have an adverse impact on our sales.. From time to time we are subjected to various product liability claims.  Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, our products contain contaminants, include inadequate instructions or warnings regarding their use or include inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances.  Whether or not successful, product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect the reputation of our brands and our business, sales and operating results.  Additionally, we may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by our products.  In addition, we could be required for a variety of reasons to initiate product recalls, which we have done on several occasions.  Any product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, although we maintain, and require our suppliers and third-party manufacturers to maintain, product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  In addition, in the future we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage or we may be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete effectively in the market for our products could be negatively impacted.. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks, tradenames and patents.  Our trademarks and tradenames convey that the products we sell are \"brand name\" products.  We believe consumers ascribe value to our brands, some of which are over 100 years old.  We own or license the material trademarks, tradenames and patents used in connection with the packaging, marketing and sale of our products.  These rights prevent our competitors or new entrants to the market from using our valuable brand names and technologies.  Therefore, trademark, tradename and patent protection is critical to our business.  Although most of our material intellectual property is registered in the United States and in applicable foreign countries, we may not be successful in asserting protection.  If we were to lose the exclusive right to use one or more of our intellectual property rights, the loss of such exclusive right could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace.  Brand dilution could cause confusion in the marketplace and adversely affect the value that consumers associate with our brands, which could negatively impact our business and sales.  In addition, third parties may assert claims against our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to successfully resolve those claims, which would cause us to lose the right to use the intellectual property subject to those claims.  Such loss could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Furthermore, from time to time, we may be involved in litigation in which we are enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights, which could require us to incur substantial fees and expenses and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We license certain of our trademarks to third party licensees, who are bound by their respective license agreements to protect our trademarks from infringement and adhere to defined quality requirements.  If a licensee of our trademarks fails to adhere to the contractually defined quality requirements, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers a substantial impairment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues.  Further, if a licensee fails to protect one of our licensed trademarks from infringement, we might be required to take action, which could require us to incur substantial fees and expenses.. 19. We depend on third parties for intellectual property relating to some of the products we sell, and our inability to maintain or enter into future license agreements may result in our failure to meet customer demand, which would adversely affect our operating results.. We have licenses or manufacturing agreements with third parties that own intellectual property (e.g., formulae, copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and other technology) used in the manufacture and sale of certain of our products.  In the event that any such license or manufacturing agreement expires or is otherwise terminated, we will lose the right to use the intellectual property covered by such license or agreement and will have to develop or obtain rights to use other intellectual property.  Similarly, our rights could be reduced if the applicable licensor or third-party manufacturer fails to maintain or protect the licensed intellectual property because, in such event, our competitors could obtain the right to use the intellectual property without restriction.  If this were to occur, we might not be able to develop or obtain replacement intellectual property in a timely or cost effective manner.  Additionally, any modified products may not be well-received by customers.  The consequences of losing the right to use or having reduced rights to such intellectual property could negatively impact our sales due to our failure to meet consumer demand for the affected products or require us to incur costs for the development of new or different intellectual property, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, development of replacement products may be time-consuming and ultimately may not be feasible.. Virtually all of our assets consist of goodwill and intangible assets and are subject to impairment risk.. As our financial statements indicate, virtually all of our assets consist of goodwill and intangible assets, principally the trademarks, tradenames and patents that we have acquired.  On an annual basis, and otherwise when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of intangible assets might not be recoverable, we assess the potential impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets.  Upon any such evaluation, we may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.  We recorded non-cash impairment charges in 2018, 2010 and 2009 for certain assets.  If any of our brands sustain significant or prolonged declines in revenues or profitability or performance not in line with our expectations, the carrying value may no longer be recoverable, in which case a non-cash impairment charge may be recorded in future periods.  For example, if the Company's brand performance is weaker than projections used in valuation calculations, the value of such brands may become impaired.  In the event that such analysis would result in the fair value being lower than the carrying value, we would be required to record an impairment charge. Although we experienced revenue declines in certain brands in the past, we continue to believe that the fair value of our brands exceed their carrying values as adjusted. However, sustained or significant future declines in revenue, profitability, lost distribution, other adverse changes in expected operating results, and/or unfavorable changes in economic factors used to estimate fair value of certain brands could indicate that the fair value no longer exceeds the carrying value, in which case a non-cash impairment charge may be recorded in future periods. Should the value of those assets or other assets become further impaired or our financial condition is materially adversely affected in any way, we would not have tangible assets that could be sold to repay our liabilities.  As a result, our creditors and investors may not be able to recoup the amount of the indebtedness that they have extended to us or the amount they have invested in us.. We depend on our key personnel, and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management.  These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time.  We may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel.  While we believe we have developed depth and experience among our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected if one or more of these key individuals were to leave.  We do not maintain any key-man or similar insurance policies covering any of our senior management or key personnel.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, and the significant amount of cash we need to service our debt would not be available to reinvest in our business.. At March 31, 2018, our total indebtedness, including current maturities, was approximately $2.0 billion.. Our indebtedness could:. • Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • Limit our ability to engage in strategic acquisitions;. 20. • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations toward repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes;. • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate;. • Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • Limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all.. The terms of the indentures governing our 6.375% senior notes due March 1, 2024 (the \"2016 Senior Notes\") and our 5.375% senior unsecured notes due December 15, 2021 (the \"2013 Senior Notes\"), and the credit agreement governing the 2012 Term Loan and 2012 ABL Revolver, allow us to issue and incur additional debt only upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in those respective agreements.  If new debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks described above could increase.. At March 31, 2018, we had $96.6 million of borrowing capacity available under the 2012 ABL Revolver to support our operating activities.. Our operating flexibility is limited in significant respects by the restrictive covenants in our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes.. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes impose restrictions that could impede our ability to enter into certain corporate transactions, as well as increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and industry.  These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things:. • Borrow money or issue guarantees;. • Pay dividends, repurchase stock from, or make other restricted payments to, stockholders;. • Make investments or acquisitions;. • Use assets as security in other transactions;. • Sell assets or merge with or into other companies;. • Enter into transactions with affiliates;. • Sell stock in our subsidiaries; and. • Direct our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us.. Our ability to engage in these types of transactions is generally limited by the terms of the senior credit facility and the indentures governing the senior notes, even if we believe that a specific transaction would positively contribute to our future growth, operating results or profitability.. In addition, our senior credit facility requires us to maintain certain leverage, interest coverage and fixed charge ratios.  Although we believe we can continue to meet and/or maintain the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement, our ability to do so may be affected by events outside our control.  Covenants in our senior credit facility also require us to use 100% of the proceeds we receive from debt issuances to repay outstanding borrowings under our senior credit facility.  Any failure by us to comply with the terms and conditions of the credit agreement and the indentures governing the senior notes could result in an event of default, which may allow our creditors to accelerate our debt and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. 21. The senior credit facility and the indentures governing the senior notes contain cross-default provisions that could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.. The senior credit facility and the indentures governing the senior notes contain provisions that allow the respective creditors to declare all outstanding borrowings under one agreement to be immediately due and payable as a result of a default under another agreement.  Consequently, failure to make a payment required by the indentures governing the senior notes, among other things, may lead to an event of default under the senior credit facility.  Similarly, an event of default or failure to make a required payment at maturity under the senior credit facility, among other things, may lead to an event of default under the indentures governing the senior notes.  If the debt under the senior credit facility and indentures governing the senior notes were to both be accelerated, the aggregate amount immediately due and payable as of March 31, 2018 would have been approximately $2.0 billion.  We presently do not have sufficient liquidity to repay these borrowings in the event they were to be accelerated, and we may not have sufficient liquidity in the future to do so.  Additionally, we may not be able to borrow money from other lenders to enable us to refinance our indebtedness.  At March 31, 2018, the book value of our current assets was $303.5 million.  Although the book value of our total assets was $3,760.6 million, approximately $3,401.0 million was in the form of intangible assets, including goodwill of $620.1 million, a significant portion of which may not be available to satisfy our creditors in the event our debt is accelerated.. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the senior credit facility, the indentures governing the senior notes or any other subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default.  Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, as well as any other debt to which the cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions apply.  In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with additional funding.  As a result, any default by us under our credit agreement, indentures governing the senior notes or any other financing agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to the risk of, and from time to time in the ordinary course of business we are involved in, litigation by employees, customers, consumers, suppliers, competitors, regulators, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation.  The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify.  Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.  The cost to defend current and future litigation may be significant.  There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our products, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable.  For example, although our marketing is evidence-based, consumers and competitors may challenge, and have challenged, certain of our marketing claims by alleging, among other things, false and misleading advertising with respect to advertising for certain of our products. Such challenges could result in our having to pay monetary damages or limit our ability to maintain current marketing claims.  Conversely, we have, and may be required in the future to initiate litigation against others to protect the value of our intellectual property and the related goodwill or enforce an agreement or contract that has been breached.  These matters may be time consuming and expensive, but may be necessary to protect our assets and realize the benefits of the agreements and contracts that we have negotiated.  As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to several factors, some of which are beyond our control, including (i) general stock market volatility, (ii) variations in our quarterly operating results, (iii) our leveraged financial position, (iv) potential sales of additional shares of our common stock, (v) perceptions associated with the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, (vi) general trends in the consumer products industry, (vii) changes by securities analysts in their estimates or investment ratings, (viii) the relative illiquidity of our common stock, (ix) voluntary withdrawal or recall of products, (x) news regarding litigation in which we are or become involved, (xi) potential changes in demand for common stock related to the Company's inclusion in the S&P MidCap 400 index, and (xii) general marketplace conditions brought on by economic recession.. We have no current intention of paying dividends to holders of our common stock.. We presently intend to retain our earnings, if any, for use in our operations, to facilitate strategic acquisitions, to repurchase our common stock, or to repay our outstanding indebtedness and have no current intention of paying dividends to holders of our common stock.  In addition, our debt instruments limit our ability to declare and pay cash dividends on our common stock.  As a result, a shareholder's only opportunity to achieve a return on their investment in our common stock will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and they sell their shares at a profit.. 22. Our annual and quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, resulting in a decline in the price of our securities.. Our annual and quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly because of numerous factors, including:. • The timing of when we make acquisitions or introduce new products;. • Our inability to increase the sales of our existing products and expand their distribution;. • The timing of the introduction or return to the market of competitive products and the introduction of store brand products;. • Inventory management resulting from consolidation among our customers;. • Adverse regulatory or market events in the United States or in our international markets;. • Changes in consumer preferences, spending habits and competitive conditions, including the effects of competitors' operational, promotional or expansion activities;. • Seasonality of our products;. • Fluctuations in commodity prices, product costs, utilities and energy costs, prevailing wage rates, insurance costs and other costs;. • The discontinuation and return of our products from retailers;. • Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, and the costs associated with those activities;. • Changes in advertising and promotional activities and expansion to new markets;. • Negative publicity relating to us and the products we sell;. • Litigation matters;. • Unanticipated increases in infrastructure costs;. • Impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets;. • Changes in interest rates; and. • Changes in accounting, tax, regulatory or other rules applicable to our business.. Our quarterly operating results and revenues may fluctuate as a result of any of these or other factors.  Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and revenues for any particular future period may decrease.  In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors.  In that event, the market price of our outstanding securities could be adversely impacted.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may discourage potential acquirers of our company, which could adversely affect the value of our securities.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our Board of Directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to five million shares of preferred stock in one or more series of preferred stock issuances.  Our Board of Directors may establish the number of shares to be included in each series of preferred stock and determine, as applicable, the voting and other powers, designations, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions for such series of preferred stock.  The shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights.  We may issue additional preferred stock in ways which may delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company without further action by our stockholders.  The shares of preferred stock may be issued with voting rights that may. 23. adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock by increasing the number of outstanding shares having voting rights, and by the creation of class or series voting rights.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, contains additional provisions that may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire or attempt to acquire control of our company.  In addition, we are subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that limit, in some cases, our ability to engage in certain business combinations with significant stockholders.. These provisions, either alone, or in combination with each other, give our current directors and executive officers the ability to significantly influence the outcome of a proposed acquisition of the Company.  These provisions would apply even if an acquisition or other significant corporate transaction was considered beneficial by some of our stockholders.  If a change in control or change in management is delayed or prevented by these provisions, the market price of our outstanding securities could be adversely impacted.. We rely significantly on information technology.  Any inadequacy, interruption, theft or loss of data, malicious attack, integration failure, failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on our systems or other security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and damage the reputation of our brands.. The Company relies extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to conduct its business.  We rely on our information technology systems (some of which are outsourced to third parties) to manage the data, communications and business processes for all of our functions, including our marketing, sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, accounting and administrative functions.  These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to internal communications and communications with other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, billing customers and receiving and applying payment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor, and other stakeholder information and personal data, and other processes necessary to manage the Company's business.. Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the information technology systems, networks, and services of the Company, its customers and other business partners, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the data of the Company, its customers and other business partners.  As a result, the Company's information technology systems, networks or service providers could be damaged or cease to function properly or the Company could suffer a loss or disclosure of business, personal or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches.  The Company has conducted regular security audits by an outside firm to address any potential service interruptions or vulnerabilities. However, if these plans do not provide effective protection, the Company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage or conduct its operations, which may adversely affect its business.  The Company may need to expend additional resources in the future to continue to protect against, or to address problems caused by, any business interruptions or data security breaches.. Any breach of our data security could result in an unauthorized release or transfer of customer, consumer, user or employee information, or the loss of valuable business data or cause a disruption in our business.  These events could give rise to unwanted media attention, damage our reputation, damage our customer, consumer or user relationships and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits or adversely impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition.  We may also be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against or respond to or alleviate problems caused by a security breach.  If we are unable to prevent material failures, our operations may be impacted, and we may suffer other negative consequences such as reputational damage, litigation, remediation costs and/or penalties under various data privacy laws and regulations.. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to disruptions.. We utilize information technology systems to improve the effectiveness of our operations and support our business, including systems to support financial reporting and an enterprise resource planning system.  During post-production and future enterprise resource planning phases, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and other business disruptions that could lead to the loss of revenue or inaccuracies in our financial information.  The occurrence of these or other challenges could disrupt our information technology systems and adversely affect our operations.. Changes in our provision for income taxes or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results.. 24. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by several factors, some of which are outside of our control, including:. • Changes in the income allocation methods for state taxes, and the determination of which states or countries have jurisdiction to tax our Company;. • An increase in non-deductible expenses for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation, executive compensation and impairment of goodwill;. • Transfer pricing adjustments;. • Tax assessments resulting from tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlement takes place;. • A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings;. • Tax liabilities from acquired businesses;. • Changes in accounting principles; and. • Changes in tax laws or related interpretations, accounting standards, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate.. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement of the attributes prescribed in Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 740.  As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions.  The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions.  Our effective tax rate is dependent upon the availability of tax credits and carryforwards.  The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty.  Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings.  Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate.. In addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities.  If tax authorities challenge the relative mix of our U.S. and international income, or successfully assert the jurisdiction to tax our earnings, our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected.. The impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") could be materially different from our current estimates.. The Tax Act was signed into law in December 2017, which represents significant U.S. federal tax reform legislation that includes a permanent reduction to the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. We expect the new law to significantly reduce our tax rate in future periods.  In 2018, our tax provision reflects the benefit of the Federal tax rate reduction due to the one-time revaluation of our deferred tax liabilities and a charge related to the forced foreign repatriation tax.  The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex.  The final transitional impacts of the Tax Act may differ from the above estimate, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to calculate the transitional impacts.  The Commission has issued guidance that allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts.  We currently anticipate finalizing and recording any resulting adjustments by the end of the measurement period."
