[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. We must successfully execute our growth strategy in order to increase our revenue, and must control our costs in order to maintain profitability.. Over time, our clients tend to resolve recurring transaction processing deficiencies. In addition, many of our clients have an internal staff that audits the transactions before we do. As the skills, experience and resources of our clients' internal recovery audit staffs improve, they will identify many overpayments themselves and reduce some of our audit recovery opportunities. In addition, our revenues are potentially impacted by competitive rate pressures, our dependency on clients to approve our claims on a timely basis, changes in audit scope by our clients and occasional loss of clients or movement from primary to secondary position. We must continually innovate new audit concepts, improve audit execution, develop new clients and successfully execute our own growth strategy in order to increase our revenue and avoid losses in our business.. We depend on our largest clients for significant revenue, so losing a major client could adversely affect our revenue and liquidity.. We generate a significant portion of our revenue from our largest clients. Our five largest clients collectively accounted for 36.6% of our revenue from continuing operations in 2017, 37.3% of our revenue from continuing operations in 2016 and 34.5% of our revenue from continuing operations in 2015. We have one client, The Kroger Co., that accounted for approximately 12% of our revenue from continuing operations in 2017 and approximately 11% of our revenue from continuing operations in 2016. No client accounted for 10% or more of our revenue from continuing operations in 2015. If we lose any of our major clients, our results of operations and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.. Although we continually seek to diversify our client base, we may be unable to offset the effects of an adverse change in one of our key client relationships. For example, if our existing clients elect not to renew their contracts with us at the expiration of the current terms of those contracts, or reduce the services they purchase thereunder, our recurring revenue base will be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, we could lose clients if: (i) they cancel their agreements with us; (ii) we fail to win a competitive bid at the time of contract renewal; (iii) the financial condition of any of our clients deteriorates; or (iv) our clients are acquired by, or acquire, companies with which we do not have contracts. Any of these could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our strategy may not be successful.. As discussed in Item 1 \"The PRGX Strategy,\" our objectives are to achieve revenue growth and higher profitability by growing and improving our core recovery audit business, differentiating our service offerings and capabilities, creating adjacent service offerings (including SaaS solutions) and expanding into new high potential industries and geographies. These efforts are ongoing, and the results of our efforts will not be known until sometime in the future. Successful execution of our strategy requires sustained management focus, innovation, organization and coordination over time, as well as success in building relationships with third parties. If we are unable to execute our strategy successfully, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, execution of our strategy will require material investments and additional costs that may not yield incremental revenue and improved financial performance as planned.. Our acquisitions, investments, partnerships and strategic alliances may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities.. Acquisitions have contributed and are expected to continue to contribute to our revenue. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances will be important to our growth strategy.. We may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. The issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. In addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. We could face financial risks associated with incurring significant debt. Additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. Any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business.. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including:. •problems with effective integration of acquired operations;. •the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;. •increased operating costs;. •the diversion of our management team from our other operations;. 8. •problems with regulatory agencies;. •exposure to unanticipated liabilities;. •difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and. •changes in our credit rating and financing costs.. The terms of our credit facility place restrictions on us, which create risks of default and reduce our flexibility.. Our current credit facility contains a number of affirmative, negative, and financial covenants that may limit our ability to take certain actions and require us to comply with specified financial ratios and other performance covenants. No assurance can be provided that we will not violate the covenants of our secured credit facility in the future. If we are unable to comply with our financial covenants in the future, our lenders could pursue their contractual remedies under the credit facility, including requiring the immediate repayment in full of all amounts outstanding, if any. Additionally, we cannot be certain that, if the lenders demanded immediate repayment of any amounts outstanding, we would be able to secure adequate or timely replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all.. Our ability to make payments due on debt we may have outstanding will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient to make these payments, we may take actions such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Some or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations and we could be required to file for bankruptcy. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our credit agreements may limit our ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to undertake any of these actions successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with our discontinued HCRA services business.. As of December 31, 2015, we discontinued the HCRA services business, but will continue to incur significant costs as it winds down. There are complex regulations governing many healthcare payments and recoupments, including a multi-layered scheme for provider appeals of overpayment determinations under the Medicare RAC program. These regulations, the terms of the Company's contracts and the complexity of Medicare and other healthcare data, systems and processes, generally make it more difficult and costly to exit this portion of our business. Finally, while we maintain reserves on our balance sheet, any appeals settlements which require us to repay a significant portion of our historical fees could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.. We may be unable to protect and maintain the competitive advantage of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights.. Our operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to protect our proprietary software, audit techniques and methodologies, and other proprietary intellectual property rights. We generally rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. Although we presently hold U.S. registered copyrights on certain of our proprietary technology and certain U.S. and foreign registered trademarks, we may be unable to obtain similar protection on our other intellectual property. In addition, our foreign registered trademarks may not receive the same enforcement protection as our U.S. registered trademarks.. Additionally, to protect our confidential and trade secret information, we generally enter into nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients. We also limit access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. Nevertheless, we may be unable to deter misappropriation or unauthorized dissemination of our proprietary information, detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. In spite of the level of care taken to protect our intellectual property, there is no guarantee that our sensitive proprietary information will not be improperly accessed or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology.. We could be subjected to claims of intellectual property infringement.. Although we are not aware of any infringement of our services and products on the intellectual property rights of others, the potential for intellectual property infringement claims continually increases as the universe of intellectual property continues to rapidly expand, and we are subject to the risk that someone else will assert a claim against us for violating their intellectual property rights.  Any claim for intellectual property infringement, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend. If we were held liable for infringing third party intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial damage awards, and potentially be required to cease using the technology, produce non-infringing technology or obtain a license to use such technology. Such potential liabilities or increased costs could be material to us.. 9. Cyber-security incidents, including data security breaches or computer viruses, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services, damaging our reputation or exposing us to liability.. We receive, process, store and transmit, often electronically, the confidential data of our clients and others. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or stored data could result in the theft or improper disclosure of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could cause interruptions in our operations. These cyber-security risks increase when we transmit information from one location to another, including transmissions over the Internet or other electronic networks. Despite implemented security measures, our facilities, systems and procedures, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, software viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events which may disrupt our delivery of services or expose the confidential information of our clients and others. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information of our clients or others, whether by us or a third party, could (i) subject us to civil and criminal penalties, (ii) have a negative impact on our reputation, (iii) expose us to liability to our clients, third parties or government authorities, (iv) cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider, and (v) cause us to incur significant remediation costs. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Our ability to deliver our SaaS solutions is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties.. The infrastructure of the Internet consists of multiple fragmented networks.  Multiple third-party organizations run this infrastructure together under the governance of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Numbers and Names (ICANN) and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority under the stewardship of ICANN.  The Internet has experienced outages and other delays resulting from damage to portions of infrastructure, denial-of-service attacks or related cyber incidents, and the Internet could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage or result in fragmentation of the Internet, resulting in multiple separate networks lacking interconnection. These scenarios are outside of our control and could impair the delivery of our SaaS solutions to our clients.  Resulting interruptions in our SaaS solutions or the ability of our clients to access our SaaS solutions could result in a loss of potential or existing clients and harm our business.. Our software and SaaS solutions may not be error-free and could result in claims of breach of contract and liabilities.. Our software and SaaS solutions are very complex and may not be error-free, especially when first released. Although we perform extensive testing, the failure of any solution to operate in accordance with its specifications, documentation or applicable license agreement could require us to correct the deficiency. If such deficiency cannot be corrected in accordance with the relevant contract for services, the deficiency could constitute a material breach of the contract allowing for the contract's termination and possibly subjecting us to liability.  Also, we sometimes indemnify our clients against third-party infringement claims and certain other losses. If such claims for indemnification are made, even if they are without merit, they could be expensive to resolve. A significant judgment against us could have a material adverse impact on us.. Operational failures in our data processing facilities could harm our business and reputation.. An interruption of our SaaS hosting facilities or other data processing services, including an interruption caused by damage or destruction of communication lines or physical facilities or a failure of data processing equipment, could result in a loss of clients, difficulties in obtaining new clients and a reduction in revenue. In addition, we also may be liable to third parties or our clients because of such interruption. These risks would increase with longer service interruptions. Despite any disaster recovery and business continuity plans and precautions we have implemented (including insurance) to protect against the effects of service delivery interruptions, such interruptions could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Our investment of substantial capital in information technology systems, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business.. We have invested and continue to invest substantial amounts in the development and implementation of information technology systems. Although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that such systems will justify the related investments. If we fail to realize the benefits expected from our information technology system investments, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned time frame, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. 10. Client and vendor bankruptcies and financial difficulties could reduce our earnings.. Our clients generally operate in intensely competitive environments and, accordingly, bankruptcy filings by our clients are not uncommon. Bankruptcy filings by our large clients or the significant vendors who supply them or unexpectedly large vendor claim chargebacks lodged against one or more of our larger clients could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Similarly, our inability to collect our accounts receivable due to other financial difficulties of one or more of our large clients could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Economic conditions which adversely impact our clients and their vendors in the retail industry in the United Kingdom and Europe may continue to have a negative impact on our revenue. Specifically, client liquidity and the liquidity of client vendors can have a significant impact on claim production, the claim approval process, and the ability of clients to offset or otherwise make recoveries from their vendors.. If a client files for bankruptcy, we could be subject to an action to recover certain payments received in the 90 days prior to the bankruptcy filing known as \"preference payments.\" If we are unsuccessful in defending against such claims, we would be required to make unbudgeted cash payments which could strain our financial liquidity, and our earnings would be reduced.. Our failure to retain the services of key members of our management team and highly skilled personnel could adversely impact our operations and financial performance.. Our future success depends largely on the efforts and skills of our management team, including our executive officers and other key employees. As such, we have entered into employment agreements with key members of our management team. While these employment agreements include limits on the ability of key employees to directly compete with us in the future, nothing prevents them from leaving our Company. We also do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance policies on any of our executive officers or other key employees. Thus, we may have to incur costs to replace such employees if we were to lose their services, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such employees in a timely manner.. In addition, it is especially challenging to attract and retain highly qualified skilled auditors and other professionals in an industry where competition for skilled personnel is intense. Accordingly, our future performance also depends, in part, on the ability of our management team to work together effectively, manage our workforce, and retain highly qualified personnel.. We rely on operations outside the U.S. for a significant portion of our revenue and are increasingly dependent on operations outside the U.S. for supporting our operations globally.. Operations outside the U.S. generated 42.2% of our annual revenue from continuing operations in 2017, 42.6% in 2016 and 41.8% in 2015. These international operations are subject to numerous risks, including:. • greater exposure to the possibility of economic instability, the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances, expropriation or war in the international markets we serve;. • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and in collecting accounts receivable;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly weaknesses in the British pound, the euro, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Brazilian real, the Australian dollar, the Indian rupee and other currencies of countries in which we transact business, which could result in currency translations that materially reduce our revenue and earnings;. • costs associated with adapting our services to our foreign clients' needs;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws;. • expenses and legal restrictions associated with transferring earnings from our foreign subsidiaries to us;. • difficulties in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, such as those relating to data protection and employment, as well as U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States;. • business interruptions due to widespread disease, actual or potential terrorist activities, or other catastrophes;. • reduced or limited protection of our intellectual property rights;. • longer accounts receivable cycles; and. • competition with large or state-owned enterprises or regulations that effectively limit our operations and favor local competitors.. Because we expect a significant portion of our revenue to continue to come from operations outside the U.S., and expect to continue transitioning certain of our operations to locations outside the U.S., the occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 11. In 2017, our European operations accounted for 20.4% of our consolidated revenue from continuing operations. There have been continuing concerns and uncertainties regarding the stability of certain European economies. A continued decline in the economic conditions in Europe may materially and adversely affect our operations both in Europe and on a consolidated basis.. Furthermore, in 2010 we began transitioning certain of our core data processing and other functions to locations outside the U.S., including India, where approximately 20% of our employees were located on December 31, 2017. While our operations in India have been key to serving clients more efficiently and cost-effectively under our improved service delivery model, India has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities with neighboring countries. Geopolitical conflicts, military activity, terrorist attacks, or other political uncertainties in the future could adversely affect the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making business operations and travel more difficult, which may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services from India. Disruption of our Indian operations could materially and adversely affect our profitability and our ability to execute our growth strategy.. Our business operates in highly competitive environments and is subject to pricing pressure.. The environments in which our business operates are highly competitive, with numerous other recovery audit firms and other service providers. In addition, many of our recovery audit clients have developed their own internal recovery audit capabilities. As a result of competition among the providers of these services and the availability of certain recovery audit services from clients' internal audit departments, our business is subject to intense rate pressure. Our Adjacent Services business also has numerous competitors varying in size, market strength and specialization, many of whom have established and well-known franchises and brands. Intense price competition faced by all of our service lines could negatively impact our profit margins and have a potential adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our client contracts generally contain provisions under which the client may terminate our services prior to the completion of the agreement.. Many of our client contracts provide that the client may terminate the contract without cause prior to the end of the term of the agreement by providing us with relatively short prior written notice of the termination. As a result, the existence of contractual relationships with our clients is not an assurance that we will continue to provide services for our clients through the entire term of their respective agreements. If clients representing a significant portion of our revenue terminated their agreements unexpectedly, we may not, in the short-term, be able to replace the revenue and income from such contracts and this would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, client contract terminations also could harm our reputation within the industry which could negatively impact our ability to obtain new clients.. Our charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock.. We account for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. We allocate the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required in purchase accounting including the following:. • we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives;. • we will incur additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets; and. • to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets.. 12. Our failure to comply with applicable governmental privacy laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally could substantially impact our business, operations, financial position, and cash flows. Additionally, compliance with the laws and regulations relating to the handing of personal data may impede our ability to provide services in certain jurisdictions and may result in increased costs.. We are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and foreign privacy laws and regulations. Changes in privacy laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations could have a substantial effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Failure to comply with such regulations could result in the termination or loss of contracts, the imposition of contractual damages, civil sanctions, damage to the Company's reputation, or in certain circumstances, criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows, business and prospects. Determining compliance with such regulations is complicated by the fact that the interpretations of these laws and regulations by governing regulatory authorities and the courts evolve over time, and many of the provisions of such laws and regulations are open to a wide range of interpretations. There can be no assurance that we are or have been in compliance with all applicable existing laws and regulations or that we will be able to comply with new laws or regulations.. With respect to trans-border data flows from the European Economic Area, or EEA, we are certified under the U.S.-European Union Privacy Shield Framework, as agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Union (\"EU\"), as a means to legally transfer European personal information from Europe to the United States; however, it is possible that the U.S.-European Union Privacy Shield Framework may be challenged in EU courts and there is some uncertainty regarding its future validity and our ability to rely on it for EU to U.S. data transfers. In addition, despite our Privacy Shield certification and extensive efforts to maintain the privacy, integrity and controlled use of confidential information, including personally identifiable information, through a combination of hardware, software, and physical security, coupled with strong internal data security processes, procedures and controls that we believe meet or exceed relevant laws, regulations and industry best practices, we may experience hesitancy, reluctance, or refusal by European or multi-national clients to use our services due to the potential risk exposure they may face as a result of their data being transferred outside of the European Union.. Further, in 2016, the EU adopted a new law governing data protection practices and privacy called the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which becomes effective in May 2018. GDPR is a redesign of the European Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC and is intended to boost the online and offline privacy rights of individuals. GDPR will implement more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements to correct or erase an individual's information upon request, mandatory data breach notification requirements and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. The GDPR will also significantly increase penalties for non-compliance.. Laws are also increasingly aimed at the use of personal information for marketing purposes, such as the EU's e-Privacy Directive, and the country-specific regulations that implement that directive.  Such laws and regulations are also subject to new and differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions.. The EU's e-Privacy Directive, the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, the GDPR and other regulations could reduce demand for our services or restrict our ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our services in certain locations or our customers' ability to deploy our solutions globally. Failure to provide adequate privacy protections and maintain compliance with the new data privacy laws, including the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework and the GDPR, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Federal tax reform in the United States could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted in the United States.  The Company is still in the process of analyzing the Tax Act and its possible effects on the Company. The Tax Act includes a number of provisions, including the lowering of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, the elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain exceptions), one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. While there are benefits, there is also substantial uncertainty regarding the overall impact and details of the Tax Act. The intended and unintended consequences of the Tax Act on our business and on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. The Company anticipates that the impact of the Tax Act may be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Certain ownership changes may limit our ability to use our net operating losses.. We have substantial tax loss and credit carry-forwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On December 30, 2016, the Company experienced an ownership change as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"IRC\"). This ownership change resulted in an annual IRC Section 382 limitation that limits the use of certain tax attribute carry-forwards and also resulted in the write-off of certain deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowances that the Company recorded in.  The Company has performed its assessment and has determined that $87.3 million of the gross federal net operating losses and $62.9 million of gross state net operating losses outstanding as of December 30, 2016 will be available for use going forward. If a future ownership change occurs and limits our ability to use our historical net operating loss carryforwards, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position and results of operations by increasing our future tax obligations.. Certain of our tax positions may be subject to challenge by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and if successful, these challenges could increase our future tax liabilities and expense.. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as local country tax purposes in the jurisdictions where we operate, from time to time we take positions under provisions of applicable tax law that are subject to varying interpretations. Certain of our tax positions may be subject to challenge by the applicable taxing authorities, including, in the U.S., the Internal Revenue Service. If our tax positions are successfully challenged, our future tax liabilities and expense could significantly increase.. While we believe that our tax positions are proper based on applicable law and we believe that it is more likely than not that we would prevail with respect to challenges to these positions, we can make no assurances that we would prevail if our positions are challenged or that business economics would justify the mounting of a legal defense against such challenges. If our tax positions are successfully challenged by the U.S. or non-U.S. taxing authorities, it could increase our future tax liabilities and expense and have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may have exposure to additional income tax liabilities or additional costs if the U.S. government changes certain U.S. tax rules or other tax laws applicable to U.S. corporations doing business in foreign jurisdictions.. We are a U.S. corporation that conducts business both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, proposals for changes to tax and other laws are made that may negatively impact U.S. corporations doing business in foreign jurisdictions, including proposals for tax reform. While the scope of future changes remains unclear, proposed changes might include limiting the ability of U.S. corporations to deduct certain expenses attributable to offshore earnings, modifying the foreign tax credit rules and taxing currently certain transfers of intangible assets offshore or imposing other economic disincentives to doing business outside of the U.S. The enactment of some or all of these proposals could increase the Company's effective tax rate or otherwise adversely affect our profitability.. Future impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets would reduce our future earnings.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $36.1 million. We must perform periodic assessments to determine whether some portion, or all, of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets are impaired. Our most recent assessment showed no impairment to our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, but future impairment testing could result in a determination that our goodwill, other intangible assets or our other long-lived assets have been impaired. Future adverse changes in the business environment or in our ability to perform audits successfully and compete effectively in our markets or the discontinuation of our use of certain of our intangible or other long-lived assets could result in impairment which could materially adversely impact future earnings.. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Georgia law may inhibit a change of control that shareholders may favor.. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Georgia law contain provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition of PRGX that is not approved by our Board of Directors. This could occur even if our shareholders receive attractive offers for their shares or if a substantial number, or even a majority, of our shareholders believe the takeover is in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors in connection with the transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition include the following:. • a classified Board of Directors;. • the requirement that our shareholders may only remove directors for cause;. • specified requirements for calling special meetings of shareholders;. • the ability of the Board of Directors to consider the interests of various constituencies, including our employees, clients and creditors and the local community, in making decisions; and. • the ability of the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock with such designations, powers, preferences and rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our shareholders.. 14. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile.. Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2017, our stock traded as high as $7.90 per share and as low as $5.35 per share. Our stock price may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including:. •future announcements concerning us, key clients or competitors;. •variations in operating results and liquidity;. •changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts;. •developments with respect to technology or litigation;. •changes in applicable laws and regulations;. •the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to our. Company;. •acquisitions and financings; and. •sales and purchases of our stock by insiders.. Fluctuations in the stock market, generally, also impact the volatility of our stock price. Finally, general economic conditions and stock market movements may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance."
