[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, many of which are described below (not necessarily in probability of occurrence or order of importance).  The following list is not all-inclusive, and there can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available or other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our business in the future.  This Form 10-K includes projections, assumptions and beliefs that are intended to be \"forward looking statements\" and should be read in conjunction with the discussion of \"Forward Looking Statements\" at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect our business, the results of our operations, our cash flow and the price of our shares.  These risk factors could prevent us from meeting our goals or expectations.. Risks Related Primarily to Operating our Business. Our financial and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.. Our business is subject to seasonal and annual fluctuations.  Some of the quarterly variation is the result of weather, particularly rain, ice and snow, which create difficult operating conditions.  Similarly, demand for routine repair and maintenance services for gas utilities is lower during their peak customer needs in the winter.  Some of the annual variation is the result of large construction projects which fluctuate based on general economic conditions and customer needs.  Annual and quarterly results may also be adversely affected by:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in our mix of customers, projects, contracts and business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRegional or national and/or general economic conditions and demand for our services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVariations and changes in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIncreases in the costs to perform services caused by changing weather conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe termination or expiration of existing agreements or contracts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe budgetary spending patterns of customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIncreases in construction costs that we may be unable to pass through to our customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCost or schedule overruns on fixed-price contracts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAvailability of qualified labor for specific projects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in bonding requirements and bonding availability for existing and new agreements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe need and availability of letters of credit;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCosts we incur to support growth, whether organic or through acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe timing and volume of work under contract; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLosses experienced in our operations.. As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the operating results expected for any other quarter or for an entire year.. 11. Table of Contents. Demand for our services may decrease during economic recessions or volatile economic cycles, and a reduction in demand in end markets may adversely affect our business.. A substantial portion of our revenues and profits is generated from construction projects, the awarding of which we do not directly control.  The engineering and construction industry historically has experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recessions, downturns in business cycles of our customers, material shortages, price increases by subcontractors, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors beyond our control. When the general level of economic activity deteriorates, our customers may delay or cancel upgrades, expansions, and/or maintenance and repairs to their systems. Many factors, including the financial condition of the industry, could adversely affect our customers and their willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future.. Economic, regulatory and market conditions affecting our specific end markets may adversely impact the demand for our services, resulting in the delay, reduction or cancellation of certain projects and these conditions may continue to adversely affect us in the future. For example, much of the work that we perform in the highway markets involves funding by federal, state and local governments.  This funding is subject to fluctuation based on the budgets and operating priorities of the various government agencies.. We are also dependent on the amount of work our customers outsource. In a slower economy, our customers may decide to outsource less infrastructure services reducing demand for our services. In addition, consolidation, competition or capital constraints in the industries we serve may result in reduced spending by our customers.. Industry trends and government regulations could reduce demand for our pipeline construction services.. The demand for our pipeline construction services is dependent on the level of capital project spending by companies in the oil and gas industry.  This level of spending is subject to large fluctuations depending primarily on the current and expectations of future prices of oil and natural gas.  The price is a function of many factors, including levels of supply and demand, government policies and regulations, oil industry refining capacity and the potential development of alternative fuels.. Specific government decisions could affect demand for our construction services.  For example, a limitation on the use of \"fracking\" technology, or creation of significant regulatory issues for the construction of underground pipelines, could significantly reduce our underground work.. Conversely, government regulations may increase the demand for our pipeline services.  The anticipation by utilities that coal-fueled power plants may become uneconomical to operate because of potential environmental regulations or low natural gas prices has increased demand for gas pipeline construction for utility customers.. Many of our customers are regulated by federal and state government agencies and the addition of new regulations or changes to existing regulations may adversely impact demand for our services and the profitability of those services.. Many of our energy customers are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, and our utility customers are regulated by state public utility commissions. These agencies could change the way in which they interpret current regulations and may impose additional regulations. These changes could have an adverse effect on our customers and the profitability of the services they provide which could reduce demand for our services.. Our business may be materially adversely impacted by regional, national and/or global requirements to significantly limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future.. Greenhouse gases that result from human activities, including burning of fossil fuels, are the focus of increased scientific and political scrutiny and may be subjected to various legal requirements. International agreements, federal laws, state laws and various regulatory schemes limit or otherwise regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, and additional restrictions are under consideration by different governmental entities. We derive a significant amount of revenues and contract profits from engineering and construction services to clients that own and/or operate a wide range of process plants and own and/or operate electric power generating plants that generate electricity from burning natural. 12. Table of Contents. gas or various types of solid fuels. These plants may emit greenhouse gases as part of the process to generate electricity or other products. Compliance with the existing greenhouse gas regulation may prove costly or difficult. It is possible that owners and operators of existing or future process plants and electric generating plants could be subject to new or changed environmental regulations that result in significantly limiting or reducing the amounts of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the cost of emitting such gases or requiring emissions allowances. The costs of controlling such emissions or obtaining required emissions allowances could be significant. It also is possible that necessary controls or allowances may not be available. Such regulations could negatively impact client investments in capital projects in our markets, which could negatively impact the market for our products and/or services. This could materially adversely affect our business.. In addition, the establishment of rules limiting greenhouse gas emissions could impact our ability to perform construction services or to perform these services with current levels of profitability.  New regulations may require us to acquire different equipment or change processes.  The new equipment may not be available, or it may not be purchased or rented in a cost effective manner.  Project deferrals, delays or cancellations resulting from the potential regulations could adversely impact our business.. Changes to renewable portfolio standards and decreased demand for renewable energy projects could negatively impact our future results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. A significant portion of our future business may be focused on providing construction and/or installation services to owners and operators of solar power and other renewable energy facilities. Currently, the development of solar and other renewable energy facilities is highly dependent on tax credits, the existence of renewable portfolio standards and other state incentives. Renewable portfolio standards are state-specific statutory provisions requiring that electric utilities generate a certain amount of electricity from renewable energy sources.  These standards have initiated significant growth in the renewable energy industry and a potential demand for renewable energy infrastructure construction services. Since renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce, elimination of, or changes to, existing renewable portfolio standards, tax credits or similar environmental policies may negatively affect future demand for our services.. We may lose business to competitors through the competitive bidding processes.. We are engaged in highly competitive businesses in which most customer contracts are awarded through bidding processes based on price and the acceptance of certain risks. We compete with other general and specialty contractors, both regional and national, and small local contractors. The strong competition in our markets requires maintaining skilled personnel and investing in technology, and it also puts pressure on profit margins.  We do not obtain contracts from all of our bids and our inability to win bids at acceptable profit margins would adversely affect our business.. We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth which may affect our ability to expand our operations or grow our business.. Our ability to generate internal growth may be affected by, among other factors, our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAttract new customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIncrease the number of projects performed for existing customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tHire and retain qualified personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSuccessfully bid for new projects; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAdapt the range of services we offer to address our customers' evolving construction needs.. In addition, our customers may reduce the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital.  Our customers may also reduce projects in response to economic conditions.. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our. 13. Table of Contents. operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth, expand our operations or grow our business.. The timing of new contracts may result in unpredictable fluctuations in our business.. Substantial portions of our revenues are derived from project-based work that is awarded through a competitive bid process. The portion of revenue generated from the competitive bid process for 2017, 2016 and 2015 was approximately 52%, 45%, and 47%, respectively. It is generally very difficult to predict the timing and geographic distribution of the projects that we will be awarded. The selection of, timing of or failure to obtain projects, delays in award of projects, the re-bidding or termination of projects due to budget overruns, cancellations of projects or delays in completion of contracts could result in the under-utilization of our assets and reduce our cash flows. Even if we are awarded contracts, we face additional risks that could affect whether, or when, work will begin. For example, some of our contracts are subject to financing, permitting and other contingencies that may delay or result in termination of projects. We may have difficulty in matching workforce size and equipment location with contract needs. In some cases, we may be required to bear the cost of a ready workforce and equipment that is larger than necessary, resulting in unpredictability in our cash flow, expenses and profitability. If any expected contract award or the related work release is delayed or not received, we could incur substantial costs without receipt of any corresponding revenues. Moreover, construction projects for which our services are contracted may require significant expenditures by us prior to receipt of relevant payments by a customer and may expose us to potential credit risk if the customer encounters financial difficulties. Finally, the winding down or completion of work on significant projects will reduce our revenue and earnings if these projects have not been replaced.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few customers, and the loss of one or more of these customers could have significant effects on our revenues, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our customer base is highly concentrated, with our top ten customers accounting for approximately 56% of our revenue in 2017, 60% of our revenue in 2016 and 59% of our revenue in 2015. However, the customers included in our top ten customer list generally vary from year to year.  Our revenue is dependent both on performance of larger construction projects and relatively smaller Master Services Agreements (\"MSA\") contracts.  For the large construction projects, the completion of the project does not necessarily represent the permanent loss of a customer; however, the future revenues generated from work for that customer may fluctuate significantly.. We also generate ongoing revenues from our MSA customers, which are generally comprised of regulated gas utilities.  If we were to lose one of these customers, our revenue could significantly decline.  Reduced demand for our services by larger construction customers or a loss of a significant MSA customer could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our international operations expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries as well as currency exchange rate fluctuations that could harm our business and financial results.  We could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with laws applicable to our foreign activities, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. During 2017, 2016 and 2015, revenue attributable to our services outside of the United States was 0.3%, 0.6% and 0.9% of our total revenue, respectively.  While much of this revenue is derived from the operations of our Canadian subsidiary, OnQuest Canada, ULC, construction activities have occurred in several far eastern countries and in Australia. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tImposition of governmental controls and changes in laws, regulations, policies, practices, tariffs and taxes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPolitical and economic instability;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in United States and other national government trade policies affecting the market for our services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tPotential non-compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar non-United States laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCurrency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations and other conversion restrictions;. 14. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRestrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDifficulties in staffing and managing international operations.. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit U.S.-based companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We pursue opportunities in certain parts of the world that experience government corruption, and in certain circumstances, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our internal policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. We require our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf to comply with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. There is no assurance that our policies or procedures will protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our agents, employees and intermediaries. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business.  In addition, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged FCPA violations is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management.. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in revenues or profits.. Backlog is measured and defined differently by companies within our industry. We refer to \"backlog\" as our estimated revenue on uncompleted contracts, less the revenue we have recognized under such contracts, plus the amount of revenue on contracts on which work has not begun, plus an estimated level of MSA revenues for the next four quarters.  Backlog is not a comprehensive indicator of future revenues.  Most contracts may be terminated by our customers on short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation by a customer, or for other reasons, could significantly reduce the revenue that we actually receive from contracts in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs, but we typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. Projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time.  While backlog includes estimated MSA revenues, customers are not contractually obligated to purchase an amount of services under the MSA.. Given these factors, our backlog at any point in time may not accurately represent the revenue that we expect to realize during any period, and our backlog as of the end of a fiscal year may not be indicative of the revenue we expect to earn in the following fiscal year. Inability to realize revenue from our backlog could have an adverse effect on our business.. Backlog is an indicator of future revenues; however, recognition of revenues from backlog does not necessarily ensure that the projects will be profitable.  Poor project or contract performance could impact profits from contracts included in backlog.  For projects for which a loss is expected, future revenues will be recorded with no margin, which may reduce the overall margin percentage for work performed.. Our actual cost may be greater than expected in performing our fixed-price and unit-price contracts, causing us to realize significantly lower profits or losses on our projects.. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenue and profits under fixed-price and unit-price contracts. The approximate portion of revenue generated from fixed-price contracts for the years 2017, 2016 and 2015 was 40%, 35% and 39%, respectively.  The approximate portion of revenue generated from unit-price contracts for the years 2017, 2016 and 2015 was 46%, 45%, and 43%, respectively.  In general, we must estimate the costs of completing a specific project to bid these types of contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials may vary from the costs we originally estimated, and we may not be successful in recouping additional costs from our customers. These variations may cause gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated.  Reduced profitability or losses on projects could occur due to changes in a variety of factors such as:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFailure to properly estimate costs of engineering, materials, equipment or labor;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tUnanticipated technical problems with the structures, materials or services being supplied by us, which may require that we spend our own money to remedy the problem;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProject modifications not reimbursed by the client creating unanticipated costs;. 15. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in the costs of equipment, materials, labor or subcontractors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur suppliers or subcontractors failure to perform;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in local laws and regulations, and;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDelays caused by local weather conditions.. As projects grow in size and complexity, these factors may combine, and depending on the size of the particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Weather can significantly affect our revenues and profitability.. Our ability to perform work and meet customer schedules can be affected by weather conditions such as snow, ice and rain.  Weather may affect our ability to work efficiently and can cause project delays and additional costs.  Our ability to negotiate change orders for the impact of weather on a project could impact our profitability.  In addition, the impact of weather can cause significant variability in our quarterly revenue and profitability.. We require subcontractors and suppliers to assist us in providing certain services, and we may be unable to retain the necessary subcontractors or obtain supplies to complete certain projects adversely affecting our business.. We use subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts and to manage workflow, particularly for design, engineering, procurement and some foundation work. While we are not dependent on any single subcontractor, general market conditions may limit the availability of subcontractors to perform portions of our contracts causing delays and increases in our costs.. We use suppliers to provide the materials and some equipment used for projects.  However, significant materials and equipment are usually supplied by the customer.  If a supplier fails to provide supplies and equipment at a price we estimated, fails to provide supplies and equipment that are not of acceptable quantity or fails to provide supplies when scheduled, we may be required to source the supplies or equipment at a higher price or may be required to delay performance of the project.  The additional cost or project delays could negatively impact project profitability.. Failure of a subcontractor or supplier to comply with laws, rules or regulations could negatively affect our reputation and our business.. We may enter into joint ventures which require satisfactory performance by our venture partners of their obligations.  The failure of our joint venture partners to perform their joint venture obligations could impose additional financial and performance obligations on us that could result in reduced profits or losses for us with respect to the joint venture.. As is typical in our industry, we may enter into various joint ventures and teaming arrangements where control may be shared with unaffiliated third parties.  At times, we also participate in joint ventures where we are not a controlling party. In such instances, we may have limited control over joint venture decisions and actions, including internal controls and financial reporting which may have an impact on our business.  If our joint venture partners fail to satisfactorily perform their joint venture obligations, the joint venture may be unable to adequately perform or deliver its contracted services. Under these circumstances, we may be required to make additional investments or provide additional services to ensure the adequate performance and delivery of the contracted services.  These additional obligations could result in reduced profits and may impact our reputation in the industry.. We may experience delays and defaults in client payments and we may pay our suppliers and subcontractors before receiving payment from our customers for the related services; we could experience an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We use subcontractors and material suppliers for portions of certain work, and our customers pay us for those related services. If we pay our suppliers and subcontractors for materials purchased and work performed for customers who fail to pay us, or such customers delay paying us for the related work or materials, we could experience a material. 16. Table of Contents. adverse effect on our business. In addition, if customers fail to pay us for work we perform, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business.. Our inability to recover on claims against project owners or subcontractors for payment or performance could negatively affect our business.. We occasionally present claims or change orders to our clients and subcontractors for additional costs exceeding a contract price or for costs not included in the original contract price.  Change orders are modifications of an original contract that effectively change certain provisions of the contract.  They generally include changes in specifications or design, facilities, equipment, materials, sites and periods for completion of work.  Claims are amounts in excess of the agreed contract price (or amounts not included in the original contract price) that we seek to collect from customers or others for customer-caused changes in contract specifications or design, other customer-related causes of unanticipated additional contract costs on which there is no agreement with customers, or non-customer-caused changes, such as weather delays.  These costs may or may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. In some instances, these claims can be the subject of lengthy legal proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when they will be fully resolved. A failure to promptly document and negotiate a recovery for change orders and claims could have a negative impact on our cash flows, and an overall ability to recover change orders and claims could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. For some projects we may guarantee a timely completion or provide a performance guarantee which could result in additional costs, such as liquidated damages, to cover our obligations.. In our fixed-price and unit-price contracts we may provide a project completion date, and in some of our projects we commit that the project will achieve specific performance standards.  If we do not complete the project as scheduled, or if the project does not meet the contracted performance standards, we may be held responsible for the impact to the client resulting from the delay or the inability to meet the standards.  Generally, the impact to the client is in the form of liquidated damages specified in the contract.. A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds, and we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds.. Our contracts frequently require that we provide payment and performance bonds to our customers. Under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing bonds.. Current or future market conditions, as well as changes in our surety providers' assessments of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or to substantially reduce, the availability of bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Accordingly, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects.. Our bonding requirements may limit our ability to incur indebtedness, which would limit our ability to refinance our existing credit facilities or to execute our business plan.. Our ability to obtain surety bonds depends upon various factors including our capitalization, working capital, tangible net worth and amount of our indebtedness. In order to help ensure that we can obtain required bonds, we may be limited in our ability to incur additional indebtedness that may be needed to refinance our existing credit facilities upon maturity and to execute our business plan.. 17. Table of Contents. We may be unable to win some new contracts if we cannot provide clients with letters of credit.. For many of our clients surety bonds provide an adequate form of security, but for some clients additional security in the form of a letter of credit may be required.  While we have capacity for letters of credit under our credit facility, the amount required by a client may be in excess of our credit limit.  Any such amount would be issued at the sole discretion of our lenders.  Failure to provide a letter of credit when required by a client may result in our inability to compete for or win a project.. During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to material lawsuits or indemnity claims.. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers' compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, and civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers' infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems on which we work, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management's attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation and our business.. We are self-insured against potential liabilities.. Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer's liability, general liability, auto and workers compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles or self-insured retention amounts of up to $250,000 per occurrence. We are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible/self-insured retention. In addition, for our employees not part of a collective bargaining agreement, we provide employee health care benefit plans.  Our primary health insurance plan is subject to a deductible of $250,000 per individual claim per year.. Our insurance policies include various coverage requirements, including the requirement to give appropriate notice. If we fail to comply with these requirements, our coverage could be denied.. Losses under our insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported.  Insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends.. Our business is labor intensive.  If we are unable to attract and retain qualified managers and skilled employees, our operating costs may increase.. Our business is labor intensive and our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability may be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We may not be able to maintain an adequately skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. We have from time-to-time experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of certain types of qualified personnel. For example, periodically there are shortages of engineers, project managers, field supervisors, and other skilled workers capable of working on and supervising the construction of underground, heavy civil and industrial facilities, as well as providing engineering services. The supply of experienced engineers, project managers, field supervisors and other skilled workers may not be sufficient to meet current or expected demand. The beginning of new, large-scale infrastructure projects or increased competition for workers currently available to us, could affect our business, even if we are not awarded such projects. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our. 18. Table of Contents. business or grow our revenues. If we are unable to hire employees with the requisite skills, we may also be forced to incur significant training expenses.. Our unionized workforce may commence work stoppages, which could adversely affect our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 52% of our hourly employees, primarily consisting of field laborers, were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the 97 collective bargaining agreements to which we are a party, 75 expire during 2018 and require renegotiation.  Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. For instance, in certain geographic areas, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union company.  In addition, if we acquire a union affiliated company, we may increase our future exposure to withdrawal liabilities for any underfunded pension plans.. Withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans associated with our unionized workforce could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our collective bargaining agreements generally require that we participate with other companies in multiemployer pension plans. To the extent those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (\"ERISA\"), as amended by the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 (\"MEPA\"), may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 added new funding rules for multiemployer plans that are classified as endangered, seriously endangered or critical status.  For a plan in critical status, additional required contributions and benefit reductions may apply if a plan is determined to be underfunded, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  For plans in critical status, we may be required to make additional contributions, generally in the form of surcharges on contributions otherwise required.  Participation in those plans with high funding levels could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows if we are not able to adequately mitigate these costs.. The amount of the withdrawal liability legislated by ERISA and MEPA varies for every pension plan to which we contribute.  For each plan, our liability is the total unfunded vested benefits of the plan multiplied by a fraction:  the numerator of the fraction is the sum of our contributions to the plan for the past ten years and the denominator is the sum of all contributions made by all employers for the past ten years.  For some pension plans to which we contribute, the total unfunded vested benefits are in the billions of dollars.  If we cannot reduce the liability through exemptions or negotiations, the withdrawal from a plan could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We depend on key personnel and we may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if we lose the services of any of our key persons or are unable to attract qualified and skilled personnel in the future.. We are dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, and our ability to retain them and hire other qualified employees. The loss of our executive officers or other key personnel could affect our ability to run our business effectively. Competition for senior management personnel is intense, and we may not be able to retain our personnel. The loss of any key person requires the remaining key personnel to divert immediate and substantial attention to seeking a replacement. In addition, as some of our key persons approach retirement age, we need to provide for smooth transitions.  An inability to find a suitable replacement for any departing executive or senior officer on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business.. 19. Table of Contents. If we fail to integrate acquisitions successfully, we may experience operational challenges and risks which may have an adverse effect on our business.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire companies that expand, complement or diversify our business.  Acquisitions may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tManaging a significantly larger company than before completion of an acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe assimilation of new employees and the integration of business cultures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tTraining and facilitating our internal control processes within the acquired organization;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRetaining key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe integration of information, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChallenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChallenges in combining service offerings and sales and marketing activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business for which there are inadequate reserves;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe potential impairment of acquired goodwill and intangible assets; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe inability to enforce covenants not to compete.. If we cannot effectively manage the integration process or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process of any acquisition, our business could suffer.. We may incur higher costs to lease, acquire and maintain equipment necessary for our operations.. A significant portion of our contracts is built with our own construction equipment rather than leased or rented equipment. To the extent that we are unable to buy or build equipment necessary for a project, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis or to find alternative ways to perform the work without the benefit of equipment ideally suited for the job, which could increase the costs of completing the project. We often bid for work knowing that we will have to rent equipment on a short-term basis, and we include our assumptions of market equipment rental rates in our bid. If market rates for rental equipment increase between the time of bid submission and project execution, our margins for the project may be reduced. In addition, our equipment requires continuous maintenance, which we generally provide through our own repair facilities. If we are unable to continue to maintain the equipment in our fleet, we may be forced to obtain additional third-party repair services at a higher cost or be unable to bid on contracts.. Our business may be affected by difficult work sites and environments which may adversely affect our ability to procure materials and labor.. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult and hard to reach terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted. Performing work under these conditions can slow our progress, potentially causing us to incur contractual liability to our customers. These difficult conditions may also cause us to incur additional, unanticipated costs that we might not be able to pass on to our customers.. We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to health and safety matters.. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our environmental, health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future. Serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record were to. 20. Table of Contents. substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business.. Interruptions in information technology or breaches in data security could adversely impact our operations, our ability to report financial results and our business.. We rely on computer, information and communication technology and related systems to operate our business.  As we continue to grow our business, we need to add software and hardware and effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure in order to improve the efficiency and protection of our systems and information.  While we do not maintain customer information in our computer systems, our computer and communications systems, and consequently our operations, could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, loss of power, telecommunications failures, acts of war, acts of terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and actions by hackers and cyber-terrorists.  Any of these, or similar, events could cause system disruptions, delays and loss of critical information, delays in processing transactions and delays in the reporting of financial information.  While we have implemented network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system or network failure or data security breach would not adversely affect our business.. As a holding company, we are dependent on our subsidiaries for cash distributions to fund debt payments, dividend payments and other liabilities.. We are a holding company with no operations or significant assets other than the stock that we own of our subsidiaries.  We depend on dividends, loans and distributions from these subsidiaries to service our indebtedness, pay dividends, fund share repurchases and satisfy other financial obligations.  If contractual limitations or legal regulations were to restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash distributions to us, we may not have sufficient funds to cover our financial obligations.. We may need additional capital in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions, and we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all, which would impair our ability to operate our business or achieve our growth objectives.. Our ability to generate cash is essential for the funding of our operations and the servicing of our debt.  If existing cash balances together with the borrowing capacity under our credit facilities were not sufficient to make future investments, make acquisitions or provide needed working capital, we may require financing from other sources.  Our ability to obtain such additional financing in the future will depend on a number of factors including prevailing capital market conditions; conditions in our industry; and our operating results.  These factors may affect our ability to arrange additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us.  If additional funds were not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities or respond to competitive challenges.. Risks Related Primarily to the Financial Accounting of our Business. Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results.. In preparing our consolidated annual and quarterly financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, many estimates and assumptions are used in determining the reported revenues, costs and expenses recognized during the periods presented, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available, is dependent on future events, or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. Often times, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates may be used in our assessments of the allowance for doubtful accounts, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion accounting and provisions for income taxes. Actual results for estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we used.. 21. Table of Contents. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported revenue and profits.. For fixed-price and unit-price contracts, we recognize revenue using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, using the cost-to-cost method, where revenues are estimated based on the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of total contract revenues, total expected costs and costs incurred to date. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based upon ongoing reviews of contract profitability.. Penalties or potential charges are recorded when known or finalized. In addition, we record adjustments to estimated costs of contracts when we believe the change in the estimate is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These adjustments could result in both increases and decreases in profit margins. Actual results could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant and could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our reported results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as a result of changes in accounting standards.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") periodically issues Accounting Standards Updates (\"ASU\") that revise the treatment for various accounting topics. See Note 2  -  \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of ASUs not yet adopted.  These changes and other future changes could result in changes in the way we report our financial results.. Our reported results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets or investments.. When we acquire a business, we record an asset called \"goodwill\" for the excess amount we pay for the business over the net fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. At December 31, 2017, our balance sheet included goodwill of $153.4 million and intangible assets of $44.8 million resulting from previous acquisitions.   Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches.  Under current accounting rules, goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives cannot be amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment, while intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives.  Any impairment of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the various acquisitions, or for any future acquisitions, would negatively impact our results of operations.. In addition, we may enter into various types of investment arrangements, such as an equity interest we hold in a business entity.  Our equity method investments are carried at original cost and are included in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and are adjusted for our proportionate share of the investees' income, losses and distributions.  Equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing whether any decline in the fair value of the investment below its carrying value is other than temporary. In making this determination, factors such as the ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment and the inability of the investee to sustain future earnings capacity are evaluated in determining whether an impairment should be recognized.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law on December 22, 2017. This legislation makes significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law.  Given the significance of the legislation, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (\"SAB\") 118 which provides guidance on accounting for uncertainties of the effects of the Tax Act.  Specifically, SAB 118 allows companies to record provisional estimates of. 22. Table of Contents. the impact of the Tax Act during a one year \"measurement period\" similar to that used when accounting for business combinations.. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, and could result in a different tax rate on our earnings, which could have a material impact on our earnings and cash flow from operations. In addition, significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and our tax estimates and tax positions could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations and related interpretations, our mix of earnings, the realizability of deferred tax assets and changes in uncertain tax positions. A significant increase in our tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity.. We may not be successful in continuing to meet the internal control requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. At December 31, 2017, our internal control over financial reporting was effective using the internal control framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (\"COSO\") of the Treadway Commission:  Internal control - Integrated Framework (2013).. We have successfully completed the implementation of an integrated financial system in the majority of our operations.  With the completion of the conversion from the previous system, virtually all of our operations use the same information platform, allowing us to establish more consistent financial and operational controls.  While we plan to convert the remaining operations to the same platform in 2018, there can be no assurance that the conversion will be completed on schedule, which would mean continued use of manual processes and controls, which tend to increase the risk of control deficiencies.. Please note that there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of material internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements in the future.. Starting in the fourth quarter of 2014, our management, outside counsel and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors have been reviewing and analyzing various issues relating to the methods used by our subsidiaries to recognize revenue and estimate contingencies for construction projects in progress.  We have implemented a number of changes in the documentation of contingencies and the control processes surrounding the recognition of revenue.  We will continue to focus on making additional improvements that will enhance our controls and documentation.. We have been cooperating with an inquiry by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which appears to be focused on certain percentage-of-completion contract revenue recognition practices of the Company during 2013 and 2014.  We are continuing to respond to the staff's inquiries in connection with this matter.  At this stage, we are unable to predict when the staff's inquiry will conclude or the outcome.  Depending on the outcome of the inquiry, a government entity or other third party could bring an action and seek injunctions, fines, civil and criminal penalties, or other remedies, or assert other claims or litigation against us with respect to any issues that might arise in connection with the inquiry.  Findings from the inquiry could result in a loss of investor confidence and decrease in the market value of our common stock, the reduced ability to obtain financing and the loss of customers.. 23. Table of Contents. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our common stock is subject to potential dilution to our stockholders.. As part of our acquisition strategy, we have issued shares of common stock and used shares of common stock as a part of contingent earn-out consideration, which have resulted in dilution to our stockholders.  Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to issue up to 90.0 million shares of common stock of which approximately 51.4 million were outstanding at December 31, 2017.  While NASDAQ rules require that we obtain stockholder approval to issue more than 20% additional shares, stockholder approval is not required below that level. In addition, we can issue shares of preferred stock which could cause further dilution to the stockholder, resulting in reduced net income and cash flow available to common stockholders.. In 2013, our stockholders adopted our 2013 Equity Incentive Plan (\"Equity Plan\").  The Equity Plan replaced a previous plan.  The Equity Plan authorized the Board of Directors to issue equity awards totaling 2,526,275 shares of our common stock.  Our current director compensation plan, our management long-term incentive plan and any additional equity awards made will have the effect of diluting our earnings per share and stockholders' percentage of ownership.. Our Chairman is a significant stockholder, which may make it possible for him to have significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and his interests may differ from the interests of other stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017 our Chairman of the Board beneficially owned approximately 17% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. He may have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. Such influence could have the effect of discouraging others from attempting to purchase us or take us over and could reduce the market price offered for our common stock.. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover or change in control.. As a Delaware corporation, anti-takeover provisions may impose an impediment to the ability of others to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be of benefit to our stockholders.  In addition, certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws also may impose an impediment or discourage others from a takeover.  These provisions include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur Board of Directors is classified;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tStockholders may not act by written consent;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThere are restrictions on the ability of a stockholder to call a special meeting or nominate a director for election; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOur Board of Directors can authorize the issuance of preferred shares.. These types of provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to obtain a premium for their shares."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
