[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. This section provides an overview of the risks that may impact our performance in the future.. Risks relating to economic conditions, market conditions and investments. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, as well as our access to capital and cost of capital.. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by volatility, uncertainty and disruption in the capital and credit markets.. We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed adequate to meet anticipated short-term and long-term benefit and expense payment obligations. However, withdrawal and surrender levels may differ from anticipated levels for a variety of reasons, such as changes in economic conditions or changes in our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings. For additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate risk and the impact of a downgrade in our financial strength ratings, see \" -  Changes in interest rates or credit spreads or a sustained low interest rate environment may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net income can vary from period to period\" and \" -  A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors, impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.\" In addition, mark-to-market adjustments on our derivative instruments may lead to fluctuations in our reported statutory capital. Volatility, uncertainty or disruptions in the capital or credit markets may result in the need for additional capital to maintain a targeted level of statutory capital relative to the NAIC's risk-based capital requirements. In the event our current internal sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as customers' or lenders' perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us.. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; fund redemption requests on insurance or other financial products; generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, utilize available internal resources or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility and liquidity.. In addition, we maintain credit facilities with various financial institutions as a potential source of excess liquidity. These facilities are in place to bridge timing in cash flows to minimize the cost of meeting our obligations, particularly during periods when alternative sources of liquidity are limited. Our ability to borrow funds under these facilities is conditioned on our satisfaction of covenants and other requirements contained in the facilities. Our failure to comply with these covenants, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities and, consequently, could limit our flexibility in meeting our cash flow needs.. For further discussion on liquidity risk management, see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Adverse economic conditions may result in a decline in our AUM and revenues and erosion of our profit margins. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events and economic downturns, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, investor and consumer confidence, foreign currency exchange rates and inflation levels all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, negative investor sentiment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance. 17. Table of Contents. premiums altogether. In addition, reductions in employment levels of our existing employer customers may result in a reduction in membership levels and premium income for our specialty benefits products. Participants within the retirement plans for which we provide administrative services may elect to reduce or stop their payroll deferrals to these plans, which would reduce AUM and revenues. In addition, reductions in employment levels may result in a decline in employee deposits into retirement plans. Adverse changes in the economy could affect net income negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. An economic downturn may also lead to weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, which would adversely affect the translation of segment pre-tax operating earnings and equity of our international operations into our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion on foreign currency exchange risk, see Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  -  Foreign Currency Risk.\". Volatility or declines in the equity, bond or real estate markets could reduce our AUM and may result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rates of investment, all of which could reduce our revenues and net income.. Because the revenues of our asset management and accumulation businesses are, to a large extent, based on the value of AUM, a decline in domestic and global equity, bond or real estate markets will decrease our revenues. Turmoil in these markets could lead investors to withdraw from these markets, decrease their rates of investment or refrain from making new investments, which may reduce our net income, revenues and AUM.. For further discussion on equity risk management, see Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  -  Equity Risk.\". Changes in interest rates or credit spreads or a sustained low interest rate environment may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net income can vary from period to period.. Although the Federal Reserve increased the federal funds rate in 2017, interest rates remain at or near historically low levels. During periods of declining interest rates or sustained low interest rates, the interest rates we earn on our assets may be lower than the rates assumed in pricing our products, thereby reducing our profitability. For some of our products, such as GICs and funding agreements, we are unable to lower the rate we credit to customers in response to the lower return we will earn on our investments. In addition, guaranteed minimum interest rates on our life insurance and annuity products may constrain our ability to lower the rate we credit to customers. If interest rates remain low over a sustained period of time, this may result in increases in our reserves and true-ups or unlocking of our deferred acquisition cost (\"DAC\") asset and other actuarial balances. During periods of declining interest rates, borrowers may prepay or redeem mortgages and bonds that we own, which would force us to reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. Furthermore, declining interest rates may reduce the rate of policyholder surrenders and withdrawals on our life insurance and annuity products, thus increasing the duration of the liabilities and creating asset and liability duration mismatches. Low interest rates may also increase the cost of hedging our GMWB rider. Declining interest rates or a sustained low interest rate environment may also result in changes to the discount rate used for valuing our pension and other postretirement benefit (\"OPEB\") obligations, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves.. Increases in market interest rates may also adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. During periods of increasing market interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates on our insurance and annuity products in order to keep these products competitive. Because returns on our portfolio of invested assets may not increase as quickly as current interest rates, we may have to accept lower spreads, thus reducing our profitability. Rapidly rising interest rates may also result in an increase in policy surrenders, withdrawals and requests for policy loans as customers seek to achieve higher returns. In addition, rising interest rates would cause a decrease in the value of financial assets held at fair value on our consolidated statements of financial position. We may be required to sell assets to raise the cash necessary to respond to an increase in surrenders, withdrawals and loans, thereby realizing capital losses on the assets sold. An increase in policy surrenders and withdrawals may also require us to accelerate amortization of our DAC asset relating to these products, which would further reduce our profitability. Rising interest rates may also cause a decline in the value of the fixed income assets we manage, resulting in a reduction in our fee revenue in the short term. In addition, a significant increase in interest rates may cause a reduction in the fair value of intangible assets in our reporting units, potentially leading to an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.. For further discussion about interest rate risk management, see Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  -  Interest Rate Risk.\". Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price variability and reinvestment risk associated with changes in credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads would cause unrealized losses in our investment portfolio, would increase losses associated with credit-based derivatives we have sold that do not qualify or have not been designated for hedge accounting where we assume credit exposure and, if issuer credit spreads increase as a result of fundamental credit deterioration, would likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturities. Credit spread tightening may also cause an increase. 18. Table of Contents. in the reported value of certain liabilities that are valued using a discount rate that reflects our own credit spread. In addition, market volatility may make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes from market volatility, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and the investment returns credited to customers, which could reduce our sales, revenues, AUM and net income.. An increase in defaults or write-downs on our fixed maturities portfolio may reduce our profitability.. We are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturities we own will default on principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2017, our U.S. investment operations held $56.0 billion of fixed maturities, or 75% of total U.S. invested assets, of which approximately 5% were below investment grade and $73.6 million, or 0.13% of our total fixed maturities that were classified as either \"problem,\" \"potential problem\" or \"restructured.\" See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Investments  -  U.S. Investment Operations  -  Fixed Maturities.\". As of December 31, 2017, the international investment operations of our fully consolidated subsidiaries held $4.0 billion of fixed maturities, or 50%, of total international invested assets, of which 12% are government bonds. Some non-government bonds have been rated on the basis of the issuer's country credit rating. However, the ratings relationship between national ratings and global ratings is not linear with the U.S. The starting point for national ratings differs by country, which makes the assessment of credit quality more difficult. See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Investments  -  International Investment Operations.\" An increase in defaults on our fixed maturities portfolio could harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.. An increased rate of delinquency and defaults on our commercial mortgage loans, including balloon maturities with and without amortizing payments, may adversely affect our profitability.. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio faces both delinquency and default risk. Commercial mortgage loans of $12.9 billion represented 16% of our total invested assets as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, there were no loans in the process of foreclosure in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. The performance of our commercial mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. An increase in the delinquency rate of, and defaults under, our commercial mortgage loan portfolio could harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $10.5 billion, or 82%, of our U.S. investment operations commercial mortgage loans before valuation allowance had balloon payment maturities. A balloon maturity is a loan with all or a meaningful portion of the loan amount due at the maturity of the loan. The default rate on commercial mortgage loans with balloon payment maturities has historically been higher than for commercial mortgage loans with a fully amortizing loan structure. Since a significant portion of the principal is repaid at maturity, the amount of loss on a default is generally greater than fully amortizing commercial mortgage loans. An increase in defaults on balloon maturity loans as a result of the foregoing factors could harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability.. Mark-to-market adjustments on certain equity method investments and trading securities may reduce our profitability or cause volatility in our reported earnings.. Our investment portfolio includes certain equity method investments and trading securities that are reported at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial position, with changes in fair value reported in net investment income on the consolidated statements of operations. Mark-to-market adjustments on these investments may reduce our profitability or cause our net income to vary from period to period. We anticipate that acquisition and investment activities may increase the number and magnitude of these investments in the future.. We may have difficulty selling our privately placed fixed maturities, mortgage loans and real estate investments because they are less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturities.. We hold certain investments that may be less liquid, such as privately placed fixed maturities, mortgage loans and real estate investments. These asset classes represented approximately 42% of the value of our invested assets as of December 31, 2017.. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize or both. The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest possible price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices.. 19. Table of Contents. The impairment of derivative counterparties could adversely affect us.. We use derivative instruments to hedge various risks we face in our businesses. See Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\" We enter into a variety of derivative instruments with a number of counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearinghouses, exchanges and other institutions. For transactions where we are in-the-money, we are exposed to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. We establish collateral agreements with nominal thresholds for a large majority of our counterparties to limit our exposure. However, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. With regard to our derivative exposure, we have over-collateralization requirements on the portion of collateral we hold, based on the risk profile of the assets posted as collateral. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments and equity investments. Such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our requirements to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk.. Many of our derivative transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to post collateral. The amount of collateral we may be required to post under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, under the terms of some of our transactions we may be required to make payment to our counterparties related to any decline in the market value of the specified assets. Such payments could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. Furthermore, with respect to any such payments, we will have unsecured risk to the counterparty as these amounts are not required to be segregated from the counterparty's other funds, are not held in a third party custodial account, and are not required to be paid to us by the counterparty until the termination of the transaction.. Environmental liability exposure may result from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments.. Liability under environmental protection laws resulting from our commercial mortgage loan portfolio and real estate investments may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability. Under the laws of several states and other jurisdictions, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of cleanup. In some states, this kind of lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against the property, which would impair our ability to foreclose on that property should the related loan be in default. In addition, under the laws of some states and under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, we may be liable for costs of addressing releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances that require remedy at a property securing a mortgage loan held by us, if our agents or employees have become sufficiently involved in the hazardous waste aspects of the operations of the related obligor on that loan, regardless of whether or not the environmental damage or threat was caused by the obligor. We also may face this liability after foreclosing on a property securing a mortgage loan held by us. This may harm our financial strength and decrease our profitability.. Regional concentration of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio in California may subject us to losses attributable to economic downturns or catastrophes in that state.. Commercial mortgage lending in the state of California accounted for 18%, or $2.3 billion, of our U.S. investment operations commercial mortgage loan portfolio before valuation allowance as of December 31, 2017. Due to this concentration of commercial mortgage loans in California, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of an economic downturn in California as well as to catastrophes, including but not limited to earthquakes, that may affect the region. While we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans, we do take into account property specific engineering reports, construction type and geographical concentration by fault lines in our investment underwriting guidelines. If economic conditions in California deteriorate or catastrophes occur, we may in the future experience delinquencies or defaults on the portion of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio located in California, which may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.. Gross unrealized losses may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income.. Fixed maturities that are classified as available-for-sale (\"AFS\") are reported on the consolidated statements of financial position at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on AFS securities are recognized as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (\"AOCI\") and are, therefore, excluded from net income. Our U.S. investment operations had gross unrealized losses on fixed maturities of $0.2 billion pre-tax as of December 31, 2017, and the component of gross unrealized losses for securities trading down 20% or more for over six months was less than $0.1 billion pre-tax. The accumulated change in fair value of the AFS securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the asset or in the event that the decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary (referred to as an other-than-temporary impairment). Realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse impact on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period.. 20. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our profitability and financial condition.. Principal International sells products denominated in various local currencies and generally invests the associated assets in local currencies. For diversification purposes, assets backing the products may be partially invested in non-local currencies. In our U.S. operations, we also issue foreign currency-denominated funding agreements to nonqualified investors in the institutional market or invest in foreign currency-denominated investments. The associated foreign currency exchange risk in each instance is hedged or managed to specific risk tolerances. Although our investment and hedging strategies limit the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on operating results, weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar would adversely affect the translation of the results of our international operations into our consolidated financial statements. For further discussion on foreign currency exchange risk, see Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  -  Foreign Currency Risk.\". Risks relating to estimates, assumptions and valuations. Our valuation of investments and the determinations of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Fixed maturities, equity securities and derivatives represent the majority of total cash and invested assets reported at fair value on our consolidated statements of financial position, excluding separate accounts. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). Fair value estimates are made based on available market information and judgments about the financial instrument at a specific point in time. Considerable judgment is often required to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.. For additional information on our valuation methodology, see Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements.\". During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain securities, for example collateralized mortgage obligations and collateralized debt obligations, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, the valuation process may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods that require greater estimation, which could result in values that are different from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments require significant judgment and are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future, and the ultimate loss may exceed management's current estimate of impairment amounts.. Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the instrument issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the instrument and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the instrument are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. For further information regarding our impairment and allowance methodologies, see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Investments  -  U.S. Investment Operations\" under the captions \"Fixed Maturities\" and \"Mortgage Loans\" and Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  -  Valuation and Impairment of Fixed Income Investments.\". Any impairments of or valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be in effect during the years in which the basis differences reverse. We are required to evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets each quarter and establish a valuation allowance, if necessary, to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that is more - likely - than - not to be realizable. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider many factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, taxable income in prior carryback years and implementation of any feasible and prudent tax planning strategies management would employ to realize the tax benefit.. 21. Table of Contents. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the current or future realization of operating losses, capital losses, certain tax credits and future enacted changes in applicable tax rates as well as the tax base. In the event these estimates differ from our prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. A further significant decline in value of assets incorporated into our tax planning strategies could lead to an increase of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets having an adverse effect on current and future results.. For additional information, see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  -  Income Taxes.\". We may face losses if our actual experience differs significantly from our pricing and reserving assumptions.. Our profitability depends significantly upon the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with the assumptions used in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future insurance and annuity policy benefits and claims. The premiums we charge and the liabilities we hold for future policy benefits are based on assumptions reflecting a number of factors, including the amount of premiums we will receive in the future, rate of return on assets we purchase with premiums received, expected claims, mortality, morbidity, lapse rates and expenses. However, due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of the liabilities for unpaid policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts we will ultimately pay to settle these liabilities, the timing of such payments, or whether the assets supporting the liabilities, together with any future premiums, will be sufficient to satisfy the liabilities. As a result, we may experience volatility in the level of our profitability and our reserves from period to period. To the extent that actual experience is less favorable than our underlying assumptions, we could be required to increase our liabilities, which may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability.. For example, if mortality or morbidity rates are higher than our pricing assumptions, we may be required to make greater claims payments on our insurance policies or pay claims sooner than we had projected. Concentrations of risk, by both geography and industry, may cause mortality or morbidity rates in our group insurance or individual disability insurance to be higher than anticipated.. Our results of operations may also be adversely impacted if our actual investment earnings differ from our pricing and reserve assumptions. Changes in economic conditions may lead to changes in market interest rates or changes in our investment strategies, either of which could cause our actual investment earnings to differ from our pricing and reserve assumptions.. For additional information on our insurance reserves, see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  -  Insurance Reserves.\". The pattern of amortizing our DAC asset and other actuarial balances on our universal life-type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts may change, impacting both the level of our DAC asset and other actuarial balances and the timing of our net income.. Amortization of our DAC asset and other actuarial balances depends on the actual and expected profits generated by the lines of business that incurred the expenses. Expected profits are dependent on assumptions regarding a number of factors including investment returns, benefit payments, expenses, mortality and policy lapse. Due to the uncertainty associated with establishing these assumptions, we cannot, with precision, determine the exact pattern of profit emergence. As a result, amortization of these balances will vary from period to period. To the extent actual experience emerges less favorably than expected or our expectation for future profits decreases, our DAC asset and other actuarial balances may be adjusted, reducing our profitability in the current period.. For additional information, see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  -  Deferred Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances.\". Legal, regulatory and tax risks. Changes in laws or regulations may reduce our profitability.. Our businesses are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision throughout the U.S. and in the international markets in which we operate. We are also impacted by federal legislation and administrative policies in areas such as securities laws, employee benefit plan regulation, financial services regulations, U.S. federal taxation and international taxation. Changes in laws or regulations or the interpretation thereof could significantly increase our compliance costs and reduce our profitability. Failure to comply with applicable regulations may expose us to significant penalties, the suspension or revocation of licenses to conduct business and reputational damage.. 22. Table of Contents. Changes in insurance regulations may reduce our profitability.. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive supervision and regulation. In particular, in the U.S., the laws of the various states establish insurance departments with broad powers to supervise and regulate insurance companies. The supervision and regulation relate to numerous aspects of our business and financial condition, including insurance company laws that apply to PFG and to various transactions between our insurance companies and subsidiaries and other affiliates. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is to protect policyholders, not stockholders or creditors.. State insurance regulators, federal regulators and the NAIC continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, and may impose changes in the future. New interpretations of existing laws and the passage of new legislation may harm our ability to sell new policies, increase our claims exposure on policies we issued previously and adversely affect our profitability and financial strength.. State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an assessment are beyond our control, the liabilities we have established for these potential assessments may not be adequate. In addition, regulators may change their interpretation or application of existing laws and regulations.. The NAIC regularly reviews and updates its statutory reserve and risk-based capital requirements. Changes to these requirements may increase the amount of reserves and capital our U.S. insurance companies are required to hold and may adversely impact Principal Life's ability to pay dividends to us. See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for a discussion of regulatory restrictions on Principal Life's ability to pay us dividends. In addition, changes in statutory reserve or risk-based capital requirements may adversely impact our financial strength ratings. See the risk factor entitled \"A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors, impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition\" for a discussion of risks relating to our financial strength ratings.. State regulators have implemented a principles-based reserving (\"PBR\") approach for individual life insurance. The framework became effective in 2017 and can be adopted by companies for new business at any time during a permitted three-year transition period. Under the PBR framework, statutory reserves will reflect a combination of company experience and prescribed assumptions and methodologies. In addition, beginning in 2018, the NAIC is revising the valuation interest rates used to calculate statutory reserves for payout annuity products. The NAIC is also considering future changes to the statutory reserve requirements for individual deferred annuities. The ultimate financial impact of these changes is uncertain, but they could result in higher reserves, more volatile reserves and uncertain tax treatment.. We have implemented reinsurance transactions utilizing affiliated reinsurers and highly rated third parties to finance a portion of the reserves for our term life insurance policies and universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. Our ability to enter into new reserve financing transactions will continue to be dependent on the cost and forms of financing available in the market and our ability to obtain required regulatory approvals. Once life insurance PBR becomes fully effective, there may no longer be any financial advantage to pursuing the use of these affiliate reinsurance transactions for new business. For additional information regarding our use of affiliated reinsurance transactions, see Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Statutory Insurance Financial Information.\". The NAIC is pursuing a variety of reforms to its risk-based capital (\"RBC\") framework. In addition, the NAIC may choose to revise the RBC formula in response to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"U.S. tax reform\") enacted on December 22, 2017. The NAIC is also pursuing the development of a group-wide capital calculation. This calculation is not intended to be a regulatory capital requirement, but it could be used by regulators in their supervisory process.. Our international insurance businesses are also subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision from central and/or local governmental authorities in each country in which we operate. New interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations may harm our international businesses, increase the cost of compliance and reduce our profitability in those businesses.. The International Association of Insurance Supervisors (\"IAIS\") has proposed a common framework for the supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (\"IAIGs\"). For systemic risk management, the Financial Stability Board is continuing to implement group supervisory and capital requirements for Global Systemically Important Insurers (\"G-SIIs\"). We currently are not designated as an IAIG or a G-SII. If we were so designated in the future, we may be subject to supervision and capital requirements beyond those applicable to any competitors without those designations. These international frameworks may influence the regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate, potentially leading to an increase in our capital requirements.. Changes in federal, state and international securities laws may reduce our profitability.. Our asset management and accumulation and life insurance businesses are subject to various levels of regulation under federal, state and international securities laws. For example, insurance and investment products such as variable annuities, variable life insurance, mutual fund products and some funding agreements that constitute securities are. 23. Table of Contents. subject to securities laws and regulations, including state securities regulation as well as federal regulation under the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and other regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets or investment advisory or brokerage clients and generally grant supervisory agencies and self-regulatory organizations broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or regulations, or the interpretation thereof, that restrict the conduct of our business could significantly increase our compliance costs and reduce our profitability.. The revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (\"MiFID II\") became effective across the European Union on January 3, 2018. MiFID II is designed to increase the transparency of financial markets and strengthen investor protections. Some of the key changes under MiFID II include enhanced disclosure and reporting requirements, enhanced business conduct and governance requirements, additional regulation of trading venues, new requirements regarding client commissions and payment for research and changes in the rules relating to independent investment advice and compensation. Initial and ongoing compliance with, and industry changes related to, MiFID II may lead to increased compliance and operating costs in PGI's investment management businesses.. Changes in employee benefit regulations may reduce our profitability.. We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered legislation relating to changes in ERISA to permit application of state law remedies, such as consequential and punitive damages, in lawsuits for wrongful denial of benefits, which, if adopted, could increase our liability for damages in future litigation. In addition, reductions in contribution levels to defined contribution plans may decrease our profitability.. On June 9, 2017, most provisions of the Department of Labor's (\"DOL's\") fiduciary rule became applicable. The regulation broadens the definition of a fiduciary under ERISA to include persons providing investment advice to an employee benefit plan or an IRA for a fee or other compensation. The DOL also released two new prohibited transaction class exemptions and amendments to current prohibited transaction exemptions. Broker-dealers and advisors continue to work through the implications of the regulations on business models and how they proceed could impact our business. Even with this fluid environment, our preliminary assessment of the new regulation's impact to our business and future financial results indicates the costs will not have a significant effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. The final applicability date for certain provisions of the DOL fiduciary rule, such as the Best Interest Contract Exemption, was originally scheduled for January 1, 2018. However, in November 2017, the DOL delayed the applicability date of these provisions to July 1, 2019. The delay in the applicability date will provide additional time for the DOL and the SEC to evaluate the rule's impact on access to financial information and advice. This evaluation may result in revisions to, or potentially rescission of, the rule.. In addition, uncertainty or delay relating to the DOL fiduciary rule is driving increased state legislative and regulatory activity. Nevada expanded the scope of an existing state fiduciary duty in 2017, the NAIC has proposed addition of a \"best interest\" standard of care to its existing annuity suitability model, and the New York Department of Financial Services (\"DFS\") has proposed distinct \"best interest\" amendments to its existing annuity suitability regulation. The DFS amendments also include an expansion of the scope to sales of life insurance. Related state fiduciary or \"best interest\" legislation is expected in additional states in 2018.. Financial services regulatory reform may reduce our profitability, impact how we do business or limit our ability to engage in certain capital expenditures.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") became law. The Dodd-Frank Act makes extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementation rules and regulations, including regulations surrounding the use of derivatives. The federal agencies were given significant discretion in drafting the implementation rules and regulations, and consequently, some of the impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act are not fully known yet. It is likely that new margining aspects of the law will increase hedging costs and possibly cause fundamental shifts to the way risks are hedged. Additionally, the Trump Administration has issued an Executive Order that calls for a comprehensive review of the Dodd-Frank Act. It is uncertain whether changes to, or legislative replacement of, the Dodd-Frank Act, if any, will result in a material effect on our business operations.. Changes in cybersecurity or privacy regulations may reduce our profitability.. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and international regulations regarding the privacy and security of personal information. These laws vary widely by jurisdiction. Recent regulations with a significant impact on our operations include the European Union (\"EU\") General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") and the New York Department of Financial Services Part 500 cybersecurity requirements for financial services companies. GDPR will become effective in May 2018 for EU data subjects. GDPR includes numerous protections for EU citizens, including but not limited to notification requirements for data breaches, the right to access personal data, and the right to be forgotten. The New York Department of Financial Services Part 500 cybersecurity requirements, which became effective in March 2017, focus on minimum standards for cybersecurity programs. It is anticipated that additional federal, state and. 24. Table of Contents. international regulations will continue to be enacted in the future. Changes in existing cybersecurity and privacy regulations or the enactment of new regulations may increase our compliance costs and reduce our profitability. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations may lead to reputational damage, fines, and increased regulatory scrutiny.. Changes in tax laws could increase our tax costs and reduce sales of our insurance, annuity and investment products.. Many of the insurance, annuity, and investment products we issue receive favorable tax treatment under current U.S. federal income tax laws. Changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could reduce or eliminate the tax advantages of certain of our products, thus making these products less attractive to our customers. This may lead to a reduction in sales and deposits, which may adversely impact our profitability.. In addition, we benefit from certain tax items, including but not limited to, dividends received deductions, tax credits (such as foreign tax credits), tax-exempt bond interest and insurance reserve deductions. From time to time, the U.S. Congress, as well as foreign, state and local governments, consider legislative changes that could reduce or eliminate the benefits associated with these and other tax items, some of which were impacted by the U.S. tax reform. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has released proposed policies around Base Erosion and Profit Shifting that more countries are enacting. Our profitability could be negatively impacted as such legislation is adopted by participating countries. We continue to evaluate the impact potential tax reform proposals may have on our future results of operations and financial condition.. For a discussion of the impact of recently adopted tax legislation, see Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes.\". We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which represents a diversion of resources that may be significant in amount and may not prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete.. We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon such other party's intellectual property rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents or other protections that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services or could otherwise limit our ability to offer certain product features. Any party that holds such a patent could make a claim of infringement against us. We may also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark, license usage rights, or misappropriation of trade secret rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third party patent or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial liability, and in some circumstances could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to pay stockholder dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life.. We are an insurance holding company whose assets include all of the outstanding shares of the common stock of Principal Life and other subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and meet our obligations, including paying operating expenses and any debt service, depends upon the receipt of dividends from Principal Life. Iowa insurance laws impose limitations on the ability of Principal Life to pay dividends to us. Any inability of Principal Life to pay dividends to us in the future may cause us to be unable to pay dividends to our stockholders and meet our other obligations. See Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources\" for a discussion of regulatory restrictions on Principal Life's ability to pay us dividends.. Changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations and financial condition.. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"U.S. GAAP\"). From time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\"). The required adoption of future accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations and financial condition. For a discussion of the impact of accounting pronouncements issued but not yet implemented, see Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies\". The FASB is currently considering significant changes to the accounting standards for insurance contracts. While the effects of proposed changes in accounting standards on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed, these proposed changes, if adopted, could have the potential to negatively impact our reported profitability and financial ratios. In addition, the. 25. Table of Contents. required adoption of new accounting standards may result in significant incremental costs associated with initial implementation and ongoing compliance.. Litigation and regulatory investigations may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability.. We are regularly involved in litigation, both as a defendant and as a plaintiff, but primarily as a defendant. Litigation naming us as a defendant ordinarily arises out of our business operations as a provider of asset management and accumulation products and services; life and disability insurance; and our investment activities. We are, from time to time, also involved in various governmental, regulatory and administrative proceedings and inquiries.. Legal liability or adverse publicity with respect to current or future legal or regulatory actions, whether or not involving us, may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability. For further discussion on litigation and regulatory investigation risk, see Item 3. \"Legal Proceedings,\" Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications\" under the caption, \"Litigation and Regulatory Contingencies\" and Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes\" under the caption \"Other Tax Information.\". From time to time we may become subject to tax audits, tax litigation or similar proceedings, and as a result we may owe additional taxes, interest and penalties in amounts that may be material.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States as well as many other jurisdictions. In determining our provisions for income taxes and our accounting for tax-related matters in general, we are required to exercise judgment. We regularly make estimates where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The final determination of any tax audit, appeal of the decision of a taxing authority, tax litigation or similar proceedings may be materially different from that reflected in our historical financial statements. The assessment of additional taxes, interest and penalties could be materially adverse to our current and future results of operations and financial condition.. Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider in their best interests.. State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent, or render more difficult a takeover attempt that some stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment, which may delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. The following provisions, included in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, may also have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that some stockholders might consider in their best interests. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws:. <U+0095> permit our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock;    <U+0095> divide our Board of Directors into three classes;    <U+0095> limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors;    <U+0095> prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on our Board of Directors;    <U+0095> prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders;    <U+0095> impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings and     <U+0095> require the approval of at least 75% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock for the amendment of our by-laws and provisions of our certificate of incorporation governing:      <U+0095> the classified board,      <U+0095> the director's discretion in determining what he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of Principal Financial Group, Inc.,      <U+0095> the liability of directors,      <U+0095> the removal of directors by shareholders,      <U+0095> the prohibition on stockholder actions by written consent and      <U+0095> the supermajority voting requirements.. 26. Table of Contents. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may limit the ability of an \"interested stockholder\" to engage in business combinations with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock.. Risks relating to our business. Competition, including from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance, may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability.. We believe our ability to compete is based on a number of factors including scale, service, product features, price, investment performance, commission structure, distribution capacity, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We compete with a large number of financial services companies such as banks, mutual funds, broker-dealers, insurers and asset managers, many of which have advantages over us in one or more of the above competitive factors.. Each of our segments faces strong competition:. <U+0095> The primary competitors for our Retirement and Income Solutions and Principal Global Investors segments are asset managers, banks, broker-dealers and insurers. Our ability to increase and retain AUM is directly related to the performance of our investments as measured against market averages and the performance of our competitors. Even when securities prices are generally rising, performance can be affected by investment styles.    <U+0095> Competition for our Principal International segment comes primarily from local financial services firms and other international companies operating on a stand-alone basis or in partnership with local firms.    <U+0095> Our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment competes with other insurance companies.. In the event competitors charge lower premiums or fees for substantially similar products, we may face pressure to lower our prices in order to attract and retain customers and distributors. Reductions in the premiums and fees we charge may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Damage to our reputation may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to earn and maintain the trust and confidence of customers, distributors, employees and other stakeholders. Damage to our reputation may arise from a variety of sources including, but not limited to, litigation or regulatory actions, compliance failures, employee misconduct, unfavorable press coverage, and unfavorable comments on social media. Adverse developments within our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Any damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, distributors and employees, potentially leading to a reduction in our revenues and profitability.. A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors, impact existing liabilities and increase our cost of capital, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody's and S&P publish financial strength ratings on U.S. life insurance companies as well as some of our international insurance companies. These ratings indicate the applicable rating agency's opinion regarding an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. These rating agencies also assign credit ratings on non-life insurance entities, such as PFG and Principal Financial Services, Inc. (\"PFS\"). Credit ratings indicate the applicable rating agency's opinion regarding a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in overall funding profile and ability to access external capital.. Ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and maintaining public confidence in products being offered. Our ratings could be downgraded at any time without advance notice by any rating agency. A ratings downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade, could, among other things:. <U+0095> materially increase the number of surrenders for all or a portion of the net cash values by the owners of policies and contracts we have issued, and materially increase the number of withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies;    <U+0095> result in the termination of our relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of our products and services;    <U+0095> reduce new sales, particularly with respect to full service payout products and general account GICs and funding agreements purchased by pension plans and other institutions;    <U+0095> cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations and    <U+0095> increase our cost of capital and limit our access to the capital markets.. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. 27. Table of Contents. Client terminations or withdrawals or changes in investor preferences may lead to a reduction in revenues for our asset management and accumulation businesses.. Revenues from our asset management and accumulation products are primarily fee-based. Our asset-based fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the market value of assets under management. Our asset management and accumulation clients may elect to terminate their relationship with us or withdraw funds, generally on short notice. Client terminations and withdrawals may be driven by a variety of factors, including economic conditions, investment performance, investor preferences or changes in our reputation in the marketplace. Significant terminations or withdrawals may reduce our AUM, thus adversely affecting our revenues and profitability.. In addition, fee levels can vary significantly among different types of investments. We generally earn higher fees on liquid alternatives and equity investments vs. fixed income investments and on actively managed investments vs. indexed or passive investment strategies. Therefore, our fee revenue is impacted by both the value and the composition of our AUM. Investor preferences with respect to asset classes and investment strategies may shift over time due to market conditions, tax law changes, regulatory changes and various other factors. Changes in the composition of our assets under management may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders may decrease our earnings or increase the volatility of our results of operations or financial position under U.S. GAAP if our hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective or insufficient.. Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed minimum death benefits and/or guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or contractholder fund liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income. We use derivative instruments to attempt to mitigate changes in the liability exposure related to interest rate, equity market and volatility movements, and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. However, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. The liability exposure and volatility of net income may also be influenced by changes in market credit spreads reflecting our own creditworthiness, for which we do not attempt to hedge. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our net income, financial condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases as implied volatilities increase and/or interest rates decrease, resulting in a reduction to net income.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees and sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, our results of operations, financial condition and sales of our products may be adversely impacted.. Our continued success is largely dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We face intense competition in attracting and retaining key employees, including investment, marketing, finance, information technology, legal, compliance and other professionals. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted.. We distribute our asset accumulation, asset management and life and specialty benefit insurance products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including our own internal sales representatives, independent brokers, banks, broker-dealers and other third-party marketing organizations. We must attract and retain sales representatives to sell our products. Strong competition exists among financial services companies for efficient sales representatives. We compete with other financial services companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient sales representatives to sell our products, our ability to compete and revenues from new sales would suffer.. Our ability to increase and retain AUM is directly related to the performance of our investments as measured against market averages and the performance of our competitors. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified portfolio managers, we may face reduced sales and increased cash outflows in our asset accumulation and asset management businesses.. An interruption in telecommunication, information technology, or other systems, or a failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of data residing on such systems, could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and adversely impact our profitability.. We rely on telecommunication, information technology, and other systems to conduct business, including customer service, marketing and sales activities, customer relationship management and producing financial statements. In addition, we store and process confidential and proprietary business information on both company owned and third party managed systems.. Financial services companies have increasingly become targets of cyberattacks resulting in unauthorized access to confidential information, theft of funds from online accounts, disruption or degradation of service or other damage.. 28. Table of Contents. These attacks may take a variety of forms, including web application attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other viruses or malware and social engineering, including phishing. While we have policies, procedures, security controls and monitoring, automation and backup plans designed to prevent, or limit the effect of failure, the sophistication of cybercriminals may still result in disruptions or breaches beyond our control. The failure of our telecommunication, information technology, or other systems, for any reason, could disrupt our operations, result in the loss of customer business and adversely impact our profitability.. Any compromise of the security of our systems that results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer or employee information could damage our reputation, deter customers from purchasing our products and services, expose us to litigation, increase regulatory scrutiny and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. In addition, data breaches impacting other companies, such as the Equifax data breach in 2017, may allow cybercriminals to obtain personally identifiable information about our customers. Cybercriminals may then use this information to attempt to gain unauthorized access to our customers' accounts, which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses.. Our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our operations in the U.S. We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the locations in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Some of our international businesses are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging or potentially volatile markets. In addition, we rely on local staff, including local sales forces, in those locations where there is a risk we may encounter labor problems with local staff, especially in locations where workers' associations and trade unions are strong.. We face risks arising from our participation in joint ventures.. We participate in joint ventures, primarily in our international businesses and real estate investment operations. In these joint ventures, we lack complete management and operational control over the operations, and our joint venture partners may have objectives that are not fully aligned with our interests. These factors may limit our ability to take action to protect or increase the value of our investment in the joint venture.. We may need to fund deficiencies in our Closed Block assets.. In connection with its conversion in 1998 into a stock life insurance company, Principal Life established an accounting mechanism, known as a \"Closed Block\" for the benefit of participating ordinary life insurance policies that had a dividend scale in force on July 1, 1998. We allocated assets to the Closed Block as of July 1, 1998, in an amount such that we expected their cash flows, together with anticipated revenues from the policies in the Closed Block, to be sufficient to support the Closed Block business, including payment of claims, certain direct expenses, charges and taxes and to provide for the continuation of aggregate dividend scales in accordance with the 1997 policy dividend scales if the experience underlying such scales continued, and to allow for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changed. We will continue to pay guaranteed benefits under the policies included in the Closed Block, in accordance with their terms. The Closed Block assets, cash flows generated by the Closed Block assets and anticipated revenues from policies included in the Closed Block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose for business reasons to support dividend payments on policies in the Closed Block with our general account funds.. The Closed Block assets, cash flows generated by the Closed Block assets and anticipated revenues from policies in the Closed Block will benefit only the holders of those policies. In addition, to the extent these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time we funded the Closed Block, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the Closed Block may be greater than they would have been in the absence of a Closed Block. Any excess net income will be available for distribution over time to Closed Block policyholders but will not be available to our stockholders. See Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6, Closed Block\" for further details.. A pandemic, terrorist attack, military action or other catastrophic event could adversely affect our net income.. The occurrence of pandemic disease, man-made disasters such as terrorist attacks and military actions, and natural disasters could adversely affect our operations, net income or financial condition. For example, our mortality and morbidity experience could be adversely impacted by a catastrophic event. In addition, a severe catastrophic event may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. The resulting macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our cash flows, as well as the value and liquidity of our invested assets. We may also experience operational disruptions if our employees are unable or unwilling to come to work due to a pandemic or other catastrophe.. 29. Table of Contents. Our reinsurers could default on their obligations or increase their rates, which could adversely impact our net income and financial condition.. We cede life, disability, health and long-term care insurance to other insurance companies through reinsurance. See Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies.\" The collectability of reinsurance recoverables is largely dependent on the solvency of the individual insurers. We remain liable to the policyholder, even if the reinsurer defaults on its obligations with respect to the ceded business. In addition, a reinsurer's insolvency may cause us to lose our reserve credits on the ceded business, in which case we would be required to establish additional reserves.. The premium rates we charge are based, in part, on the assumption that reinsurance will be available at a certain cost. Most of our reinsurance contracts contain provisions that limit the reinsurer's ability to increase rates on in-force business; however, some do not. If a reinsurer raises the rates it charges on a block of in-force business, our profitability may be negatively impacted if we are not able to pass the increased costs on to the customer. If reinsurers raise the rates they charge on new business, we may be forced to raise the premiums we charge, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position.. We face risks arising from acquisitions of businesses.. We have acquired businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. We face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including difficulties in integrating the acquired business into our operations, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries, difficulties in retaining the existing customers of the acquired entity, unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired business, unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired business and sustained declines in the equity market that could reduce the AUM and fee revenues for certain acquired businesses. These risks may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from acquisitions and could result in the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of acquisition.. For additional information on our goodwill and other intangible assets, see Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  -  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.\". Loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect information of our customers or employees could adversely affect our business or result in losses.. We rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of computer hardware and software and vendors of services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, or fails to protect personal information of our customers or employees, we may suffer operational impairments, reputational damage and financial losses.. Our enterprise risk management framework may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating all of the risks to which we are exposed.. We utilize an integrated risk management framework, which is designed to manage material risks within established risk appetites and risk tolerances. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be fully effective in identifying or mitigating every risk to which we are exposed. Many of our methods for managing and mitigating risk rely on models and assumptions that are based, in part, on observed historical data. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which may be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. We may be exposed to unanticipated risks as a result of changes in market conditions, new products or new business strategies, catastrophes or other unforeseen circumstances. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we may suffer unexpected losses, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by global climate changes.. Atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases have increased dramatically since the industrial revolution, resulting in a gradual increase in global average temperatures and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. These trends are expected to continue in the future and have the potential to impact nearly all sectors of the economy to varying degrees. We cannot predict the long-term impacts of climate change, but we will continue to monitor new developments in the future.. Potential impacts may include the following:. <U+0095> Changes in temperatures and air quality may adversely impact our mortality and morbidity rates. For example, increases in the level of pollution and airborne allergens may cause an increase in upper respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, leading to increased claims in our insurance businesses. However, the risk of increased mortality on our life insurance business may be partly offset by our payout annuity business, where an increase in mortality results in a decrease in benefit payments.. 30. Table of Contents. <U+0095> Climate change may impact asset prices, as well as general economic conditions. For example, rising sea levels may lead to decreases in real estate values in coastal areas. Additionally, government policies to slow climate change (e.g., setting limits on carbon emissions) may have an adverse impact on sectors such as utilities, transportation and manufacturing. Changes in asset prices may impact the value of our fixed income, real estate and commercial mortgage investments. We manage our investment risks by maintaining a well-diversified portfolio, both geographically and by sector. We also monitor our investments on an ongoing basis, allowing us to adjust our exposure to sectors and/or geographical areas that face severe risks due to climate change.    <U+0095> A natural disaster that affects one of our office locations could disrupt our operations and pose a threat to the safety of our employees. However, we have extensive Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery planning programs in place to help mitigate this risk."
