[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described below could harm our business, financial condition, results of operation and growth prospects. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have a history of losses, and we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, if ever, we will achieve profitability in the future.. We have incurred net losses in every year since our inception, including net losses of $84.3 million, $111.2 million and $98.7 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As a result, we had an accumulated deficit of $554.4 million as of December 31, 2017. Achieving profitability will require us to increase revenue, manage our cost structure, and avoid unanticipated liabilities. We do not expect to be profitable in the near term. Revenue growth may slow or revenue may decline for a number of possible reasons, including slowing demand for our solutions, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or if we fail for any reason to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. Any failure by us to obtain and sustain profitability, or to continue our revenue growth, could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly.. Our quarterly operating results and other metrics are likely to vary significantly and be unpredictable, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline.. Our operating results and other metrics have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to do so as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including:. • the level of demand for our solutions, including our newly-introduced solutions, and the level of perceived urgency regarding security threats and compliance requirements;. • the timing of new subscriptions and renewals of existing subscriptions;. • the mix of solutions sold;. • the extent to which customers subscribe for additional solutions or increase the number of users;. • customer budgeting cycles and seasonal buying patterns;. • the extent to which we bring on new distributors;. • any changes in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors, customers, partners or resellers;. • timing of costs and expenses during a quarter;. • deferral of orders in anticipation of new solutions or enhancements announced by us;. • price competition;. • changes in renewal rates and terms in any quarter;. • the impact of acquisitions;. • litigation costs;. • any disruption in our sales channels or termination of our relationship with strategic channel partners;. • general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets, and related changes to currency exchange rates;. • insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, affecting their ability to purchase or pay for our solutions; or. • future accounting pronouncements or changes in our accounting policies, including ASU 2014-09.. 15. Table of Contents. Any one of the factors above or the cumulative effect of some of the factors referred to above may result in significant fluctuations in our financial and other operating results, including fluctuations in our key metrics. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors for any period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could fall substantially and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in nature and based on forecasted revenue and cash flow trends. Accordingly, in the event of revenue shortfalls, we are generally unable to mitigate the negative impact on margins or other operating results in the short term.. We may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and the market price for our common stock could decline. If one or more of the securities analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, the market price for our common stock could decline. Additionally, our stock price may be based on expectations, estimates or forecasts of our future performance that may be unrealistic or may not be achieved. Further, our stock price may be affected by financial media, including press reports and blogs.. If we are unable to maintain high subscription renewal rates, our future revenue and operating results will be harmed.. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of their initial subscription period, which typically ranges from one to three years. In addition, our customers may renew for fewer subscription services or users, renew for shorter contract lengths or renew at lower prices due to competitive or other pressures. We cannot accurately predict renewal rates and our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including competition, customers' IT budgeting and spending priorities, and deteriorating general economic conditions. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our solutions, our revenue would decline and our business would suffer.. If we are unable to sell additional solutions to our customers, our future revenue and operating results will be harmed.. Our future success depends on our ability to sell additional solutions to our customers. This may require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts and may not result in additional sales. In addition, the rate at which our customers purchase additional solutions depends on a number of factors, including the perceived need for additional solutions, growth in the number of end-users, and general economic conditions. If our efforts to sell additional solutions to our customers are not successful, our business may suffer.. If our solutions fail to protect our customers from security breaches, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The threats facing our customers are constantly evolving and the techniques used by attackers to access or sabotage data change frequently. As a result, we must constantly update our solutions to respond to these threats. If we fail to update our solutions in a timely or effective manner to respond to these threats, our customers could experience security breaches. Many federal, state and foreign governments have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, and any association of us with such publicity may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach at one of our customers or even an unproven allegation of a security breach at one of our customers, could harm our reputation as a secure and trusted company and could cause the loss of customers. Similarly, if a well-publicized breach of data security at a customer of any other cloud - based data protection or archiving service provider or other major enterprise cloud services provider were to occur, there could be a loss of confidence in the cloud - based protection and storage of sensitive data and information generally.. In addition, our solutions work in conjunction with a variety of other elements in customers' IT and security infrastructure, and we may receive blame and negative publicity for a security breach that may have been the result of the failure of one of the other elements not provided by us. The occurrence of a breach, whether or not caused by our solutions, or allegations of a breach, even if such allegations turn out to be untrue, could delay or reduce market acceptance of our solutions and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. In addition, any revisions to our solutions that we believe may be necessary or appropriate in connection with any such breach may cause us to incur significant expenses. Any of these events could have material adverse effects on our brand and reputation, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results.. 16. Table of Contents. If our customers experience data losses, our brand, reputation and business could be harmed.. Our customers rely on our archiving and other solutions to store their corporate data, which may include financial records, credit card information, business information, health information, other personally identifiable information or other sensitive personal information. A breach of our network security and systems or other events that cause the loss or public disclosure of, or access by third parties to, our customers' stored files or data could have serious negative consequences for our business, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our brand and reputation, and time-consuming and expensive litigation. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target, and may originate from less regulated or remote areas around the world. As a result, we may be unable to proactively prevent these techniques, implement adequate preventative or reactionary measures, or enforce the laws and regulations that govern such activities. In addition, because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that hardware failures, human errors or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. If our customers experience any data loss, or any data corruption or inaccuracies, whether caused by security breaches or otherwise, our brand, reputation and business would be harmed.. Our insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our policy may not cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages. Defending a suit based on any data loss or system disruption, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management's attention.. Defects or vulnerabilities in our solutions could harm our reputation, reduce the sales of our solutions and expose us to liability for losses.. Because our solutions are complex, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions or updates are released, or when we introduce an acquired company's products of services, despite our efforts to test those solutions and enhancements prior to release. This includes not only vulnerabilities that are specific to our solutions, but also vulnerabilities that impact the third party or open source software that we use or the hardware that we rely on for our solutions. We may not be able to correct defects, errors, vulnerabilities or failures promptly, or at all.. Any defects, errors, vulnerabilities or failures in our solutions could result in:. • expenditure of significant financial and development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate or work around errors or defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities;. • loss of existing or potential partners or customers;. • loss or disclosure of our customers' confidential information, or the inability to access such information;. • loss of our proprietary technology;. • our solutions being susceptible to hacking or electronic break-ins or otherwise failing to secure data;. • delayed or lost revenue;. • delay or failure to attain market acceptance;. • lost market share;. • negative publicity, which could harm our reputation; or. • litigation, regulatory inquiries or investigations that would be costly and harm our reputation.. Limitation of liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions and our other agreements may not adequately or effectively protect us from any claims related to defects, errors, vulnerabilities or failures in our solutions, including as a result of federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries.. Because we provide security solutions, our software, website, hosted and internal systems may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales.. We could be a target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our solutions and harm our reputation. Similarly, experienced computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our network or other security or the security of our website or other hosted or internal systems and misappropriate proprietary information and/or cause interruptions of our. 17. Table of Contents. services. Because the techniques used by such computer hackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. If an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs as a result of third-party action, including cyber-attacks or other intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, it could adversely affect the market perception of our solutions, and may expose us to the loss of information, litigation and possible liability. In addition, such a security breach could impair our ability to operate our business, including our ability to provide support services to our customers.. Our solutions may collect, filter and store customer data which may contain personal information, which raises privacy concerns and could result in us having liability or inhibit sales of our solutions.. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. Because many of the features of our solutions use, store, and report on customer data which may contain personal information from our customers, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, or comply with applicable privacy laws, regulations and policies could, even if unfounded, result in liability to us, damage to our reputation, loss of sales, and harm to our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and reduce overall demand for them. Privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our solutions. For example, in the United States regulations such as the Gramm - Leach - Bliley Act, which protects and restricts the use of consumer credit and financial information, and HIPAA which regulates the use and disclosure of personal health information, impose significant security and data protection requirements and obligations on businesses that may affect the use and adoption of our solutions. The European Union's Data Protection Directive requires member states to impose restrictions on the collection and use of personal data that, in some respects, are more stringent, and impose more significant burdens on subject businesses, than current privacy standards in the United States.. In the past we have relied on the U.S.-European Union Frameworks, as agreed to by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Union (\"EU\") as one of the means to legally transfer European personal information from Europe to the United States. However, on October 6, 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework.  On February 2, 2016, the U.S. and E.U. announced agreement on a new framework for transatlantic data flows entitled the EU-US Privacy Shield and we self-certified under the EU-US Privacy Shield framework on October 5, 2016. However, it is possible that Privacy Shield may be challenged in EU courts, so there is some uncertainty regarding its future validity and our ability to rely on it for EU to US data transfers. Additionally, the EU has enacted the new General Data Protection Regulation, which will take effect on May 25, 2018 and carries with it significantly increased responsibilities and potential penalties for companies that process EU personal data. As this date draws nearer, we expect to see increased regulatory and customer attention surrounding EU Data Privacy. Furthermore, outside of the EU, we continue to see increased regulation of data privacy and security, including the adoption of more stringent subject matter specific state laws, national laws regulating the collection and use of data, and security and data breach obligations. The uncertainty and changes in the requirements of multiple jurisdictions may increase the cost of compliance, delay or reduce demand for our services, restrict our ability to offer services in certain locations, impact our customers' ability to deploy our solutions in certain jurisdictions, or subject us to sanctions, by national data protection regulators, all of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is evolving worldwide, and various government and consumer agencies and public advocacy groups have called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. It is possible that new laws and regulations will be adopted in the United States and internationally, or existing laws and regulations may be interpreted in new ways, that would affect our business. Complying with any new regulatory requirements could force us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could reduce our revenue or compromise our ability to effectively pursue our growth strategy.. Any failure or perceived failure to comply with laws and regulations may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose users and customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.. We operate in a highly competitive environment with large, established competitors, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our solutions that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenue to decline.. Our traditional competitors include security - focused software vendors, such as Symantec Corporation and Cisco Systems, Inc. (\"Cisco\"), which offer software products that directly compete with our solutions. In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to customers, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled. 18. Table of Contents. with the product offerings of our strategic partners. Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these partners replace our solutions with the products of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors' products over our solutions. In addition, software vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors' software, or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform.. We also face competition from large technology companies, such as Google Inc., Micro Focus International plc and Microsoft Corporation. These companies are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage software that compete on various levels with our solutions. Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive that the functionality incorporated into these products would replace the need for our solutions or that buying from one vendor would provide them with increased leverage and purchasing power and a better customer experience. We also face competition from independent security vendors such as FireEye, Inc. that offer network security products and many smaller companies like Mimecast Ltd that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete.. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence our customers to purchase their products instead of ours. Further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could also result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. In addition, acquisitions of smaller companies by large technology companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete would result in increased competition from these large technology companies. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and financial results could be adversely affected.. If we do not effectively expand and train our sales force, we may be unable to add new customers or increase sales to our existing customers and our business will be harmed.. We continue to be substantially dependent on our sales force to obtain new customers and to sell additional solutions to our existing customers. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel. New hires require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business will be harmed.. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our results are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate.. We sell our security and compliance offerings primarily to enterprise IT departments that are managing a growing set of user and compliance demands, which has increased the complexity of customer requirements to be met and confirmed in the sales cycle. Increasingly, we have found that increasingly security, legal and compliance departments are involved in testing, evaluating and finally approving purchases, which has also made the sales cycle longer and less predictable. We may not be able to accurately predict or forecast the timing of sales, which makes our future revenue difficult to predict and could cause our results to vary significantly. In addition, we might devote substantial time and effort to a particular unsuccessful sales effort, and as a result we could lose other sales opportunities or incur expenses that are not offset by an increase in revenue, which could harm our business.. Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our platform to our customers located outside of the United States, our business will be increasingly susceptible to risks associated with international operations.. One key element of our growth strategy is to develop a worldwide customer base and expand our operations worldwide, such as by adding employees, offices and customers internationally, particularly in Europe and Asia.. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic, political and competitive risks and competition that are different from those in the United States.. 19. Table of Contents. In addition, our international operations may fail to succeed due to other risks inherent in operating businesses internationally, including:. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may cause our revenues and operating results to differ materially from expectations;. • our lack of familiarity with commercial and social norms and customs in other countries which may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and manage employees in these countries;. • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations;. • the potential diversion of management's attention to oversee and direct operations that are geographically distant from our U.S. headquarters;. • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations;. • legal systems in which our ability to enforce and protect our rights may be different or less effective than in the United States, including more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • immaturity of compliance regulations in other jurisdictions, which may lower demand for our solutions;. • greater difficulty with payment collections and longer payment cycles;. • higher employee costs and difficulty terminating non-performing employees;. • differences in workplace cultures;. • the need to adapt our solutions for specific countries;. • our ability to comply with differing technical and certification requirements outside the United States;. • tariffs, export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules;. • uncertainties related to the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union;. • adverse tax consequences;. • restrictions on the transfer of funds;. • anti-bribery compliance by us or our partners, including under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws of other jurisdictions; and. • new and different sources of competition.. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our existing and future international operations and seriously impair our overall business.. If we are unable to enhance our existing solutions and develop new solutions, our growth will be harmed and we may not be able to achieve profitability.. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing solutions and to introduce new solutions. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or solution. Any new enhancement or solution we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new solutions or enhance our existing solutions to meet customer requirements, we may not grow as expected and we may not achieve profitability.. We cannot be certain that our development activities will be successful or that we will not incur delays or cost overruns. Furthermore, we may not have sufficient financial resources to identify and develop new technologies and bring enhancements or new solutions to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. New technologies and enhancements could be delayed or cost more than we expect, and we cannot ensure that any of these solutions will be commercially successful if and when they are introduced.. 20. Table of Contents. If we are unable to cost-effectively scale or adapt our existing architecture to accommodate increased traffic, technological advances or changing customer requirements, our operating results could be harmed.. As our customer base grows, the number of users accessing our solutions over the Internet will correspondingly increase. Increased traffic could result in slow access speeds and response times. Since our customer agreements often include service availability commitments, slow speeds or our failure to accommodate increased traffic could result in breaches of our service level agreements or obligate us to issue service credits. In addition, the market for our solutions is characterized by rapid technological advances and changes in customer and regulatory requirements. In order to accommodate increased traffic and respond to technological advances and evolving customer and regulatory requirements, we expect that we will be required to make future investments in our network architecture. If we do not implement future upgrades to our network architecture cost-effectively, or if we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in connection with upgrading our network architecture, our service quality may suffer and our operating results could be harmed.. If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our solutions to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected.. We have derived and anticipate that in the future we will continue to derive a substantial portion of the sales of our solutions through channel partners. In order to scale our channel program to support growth in our business, it is important that we continue to help our partners enhance their ability to independently sell and deploy our solutions. We may be unable to continue to successfully expand and improve the effectiveness of our channel sales program.. Our agreements with our channel partners are generally non-exclusive and some of our channel partners have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic relationships with our competitors or are competitors themselves. Further, many of our channel partners have multiple strategic relationships and they may not regard us as significant for their businesses. Our channel partners may terminate their respective relationships with us with limited or no notice and with limited or no penalty, pursue other partnerships or relationships, or attempt to develop or acquire products or services that compete with our solutions. Our partners also may impair our ability to enter into other desirable strategic relationships. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our solutions, if they choose to place greater emphasis on products of their own or those offered by our competitors, or if they fail to meet the needs of our customers, our ability to grow our business and sell our solutions may be adversely affected. Similarly, the loss of a substantial number of our channel partners, and our possible inability to replace them, the failure to recruit additional channel partners, any reduction or delay in their sales of our solutions, or any conflicts between channel sales and our direct sales and marketing activities could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the relevant service period, decreases or increases in sales are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results.. We recognize revenue from subscriptions over the term of the relevant service period, which typically range from one to three years, with some up to five years. As a result, most of our quarterly revenue from subscriptions results from agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a shortfall in demand for our solutions in any quarter may not significantly reduce our subscription revenue for that quarter, but could negatively affect subscription revenue in future quarters. We may be unable to adjust our cost structure to compensate for this potential shortfall in subscription revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of subscriptions may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our subscription revenue through additional sales in any period, as subscription revenue must be recognized over the term of the contract.. Interruptions or delays in services provided by third parties could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business.. We currently serve our customers from third - party data center facilities and resources located in the United States, Canada and Europe. We also rely on bandwidth providers, Internet service providers, mobile networks and other third-party IT service providers to operate our business and to deliver our solutions. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems of our third - party providers could result in interruptions to our service. If for any reason our arrangement with one or more of our data centers is terminated we could experience additional expense in arranging for new facilities and support. Our data center facilities providers have no obligations to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreements with the facilities providers on commercially reasonable terms or if in the future we add additional data center facility providers, we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer to, or the addition of, new data center facilities. In addition, the failure of our data centers to meet our capacity requirements could. 21. Table of Contents. result in interruptions in the availability of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions or impede our ability to scale our operations. As we continue to add data centers, restructure our data management plans, and increase capacity in existing and future data centers, we may move or transfer our data and our customers' data. Despite precautions taken during such processes and procedures, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service, and we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer of data to other facilities. Similarly, some of our solutions' features run or depend on IT services run by third parties, such as data feeds or public clouds, and an extended failure of such services might materially and adversely impact our ability to provide our services to our customers.   Furthermore, some of our sales and business operations, such as CRM and billing and invoicing depend in part on third-party IT service providers and if those services were to be unavailable for extended periods of time it might materially and adversely affect our ability to operate.. We also depend on access to the Internet through third - party bandwidth providers to operate our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our bandwidth providers, or if these providers experience outages, for any reason, we could experience disruption in delivering our solutions or we could be required to retain the services of a replacement bandwidth provider. Our business also depends on our customers having high-speed access to the Internet. Any Internet outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to our customers.. Our operations rely heavily on the availability of electricity, which also comes from third-party providers. If we or the third-party data center facilities that we use to deliver our services were to experience a major power outage or if the cost of electricity were to increase significantly, our operations and financial results could be harmed. If we or our third - party data centers were to experience a major power outage, we or they would have to rely on back-up generators, which might not work properly or might not provide an adequate power supply during a major power outage. Such a power outage could result in a significant disruption of our business.. The occurrence of an extended interruption of our or third - party services for any reason could result in lengthy interruptions in our services or in the delivery of customers' email and require us to provide service credits, refunds, indemnification payments or other payments to our customers, and could also result in the loss of customers.. Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and harm our financial results.. Once our solutions are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any technical issues relating to our solutions. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our solutions and business reputation and on strong recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation, adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions to existing and prospective customers, and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We offer technical support services with many of our solutions. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results.. We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide customer support functions to third - party service providers. If these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our reputation and our relationships with these customers.. If we fail to develop or protect our brand, our business may be harmed.. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness and integrity of our company and our brand are important to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future offerings and are important elements in attracting new customers. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful solutions at competitive prices. We plan to continue investing substantial resources to promote our brand, both domestically and internationally, but there is no guarantee that our brand development strategies will enhance the recognition of our brand. Some of our existing and potential competitors have well-established brands with greater recognition than we have. If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. In addition, even if our brand recognition and loyalty increases, this may not result in increased use of our solutions or higher revenue.. 22. Table of Contents. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our solutions, as well as those of our competitors, and perception of our solutions in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. We have no control over what these industry analysts report, and because industry analysts may influence current and potential customers, our brand could be harmed if they do not provide a positive review of our solutions or view us as a market leader.. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate.. We rely on a combination of contractual rights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and copyrights to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. These offer only limited protection, however, and the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary technology may not deter its misuse, theft or misappropriation. Any of our patents, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Competitors may independently develop technologies or products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our solutions or that inappropriately incorporate our proprietary technology into their products. Competitors may hire our former employees who may misappropriate our proprietary technology or misuse our confidential information. Although we rely in part upon confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information, those agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of misappropriation of trade secrets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and confidential information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties.. We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or misappropriation of our trade secrets, or to establish the validity of our intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Certain jurisdictions may not provide adequate legal infrastructure for effective protection of our intellectual property rights. Changing legal interpretations of liability for unauthorized use of our solutions or lessened sensitivity by corporate, government or institutional users to refraining from intellectual property piracy or other infringements of intellectual property could also harm our business.. Our issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties, and our patent applications may never be granted at all. It is possible that innovations for which we seek patent protection may not be protectable. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Given the cost, effort, risks and downside of obtaining patent protection, including the requirement to ultimately disclose the invention to the public, we may not choose to seek patent protection for certain innovations. However, such patent protection could later prove to be important to our business. Even if issued, there can be no assurance that any patents will have the coverage originally sought or adequately protect our intellectual property, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any patents that are issued may be invalidated or otherwise limited, or may lapse or may be abandoned, enabling other companies to better develop products that compete with our solutions, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition.. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect us, and any failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our business.. Third parties claiming that we infringe their intellectual property rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our solutions.. Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. The litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue and against whom our potential patents may provide little or no deterrence. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated other parties' intellectual property rights. In the past we have been involved in litigation involving such allegations of infringement. To the extent we gain greater visibility, we could face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims, which is not uncommon with respect to software technologies in general and information security technology in particular. There may be third - party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents that cover significant aspects of our. 23. Table of Contents. technologies or business methods. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be very time consuming, could be expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management's attention and other resources. These claims could also subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. These claims could also result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third-party's rights. We might be required to seek a license for the intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license were available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of one or more of our solutions or features of our solutions and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, our agreements with customers and channel partners include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement and, in some cases, for damages caused by us to property or persons. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We rely on technology and intellectual property licensed from other parties, the failure or loss of which could increase our costs and delay or prevent the delivery of our solutions.. We utilize various types of software and other technology, as well as intellectual property rights, licensed from unaffiliated third parties in order to provide certain elements of our solutions. Any errors or defects in any third - party technology could result in errors in our solutions that could harm our business. In addition, licensed technology and intellectual property rights may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. While we believe that there are currently adequate replacements for the third - party technology we use, any loss of the right to use any of this technology on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could result in delays in producing or delivering our solutions until equivalent technology is identified and integrated, which delays could harm our business. In this situation we would be required to either redesign our solutions to function with software available from other parties or to develop these components ourselves, which would result in increased costs. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future solutions. If we fail to maintain or renegotiate any of these technology or intellectual property licenses, we could face significant delays and diversion of resources in attempting to develop similar or replacement technology, or to license and integrate a functional equivalent of the technology.. Some of our solutions contain \"open source\" software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business.. Some of our solutions are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called \"open source\" licenses, which may include, by way of example, the GNU General Public License, or GPL, and the Apache License. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. In the event that portions of our proprietary software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and solutions. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source software, but we cannot be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our solutions, that our programmers have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary solutions and technologies or that they will not do so in the future. In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.. Governmental regulations affecting the export of certain of our solutions could negatively affect our business.. Some of our products are subject to U.S. export controls, and we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our products. These encryption products and the underlying technology may be exported outside the United States only with the required export authorizations, including by license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorizations,. 24. Table of Contents. including the filing of an encryption registration. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, could harm our international sales and adversely affect our revenue.. Failure to comply with such regulations, whether by us or companies that we have acquired, in the future could result in penalties, costs, and restrictions on export privileges, which could also harm our operating results.. We have, and may further, expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, which may divert our management's attention, dilute our stockholders' ownership interests and consume corporate resources that otherwise would be necessary to sustain and grow our business.. We have made multiple acquisitions in the past, and our business strategy may, from time to time, continue to include acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses in order to expand our solutions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, or investments by or between the two parties. Negotiating these transactions can be time consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may be subject to third - party approvals, such as government regulation, which are beyond our control. Consequently, we can make no assurance that these transactions, once undertaken and announced, will close.. These transactions may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired business choose not to work for us, and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. Any acquisition or investment could expose us to unknown liabilities.. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had $393.3 million in goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, recorded on our balance sheet. We will incur expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets and we may in the future need to incur charges with respect to the impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, which could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. In connection with these types of transactions, we may issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders' ownership interests, use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business, incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay, incur large charges or substantial liabilities, encounter difficulties integrating diverse business cultures, and become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. These challenges related to acquisitions or investments could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenue.. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other critical personnel. Competition for qualified management, technical and other personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. If we fail to attract and retain qualified employees, our ability to grow our business could be harmed. Our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. Competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity - based compensation. Volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenue.. 25. Table of Contents. Changes in laws and/or regulations related to the Internet or changes in the Internet infrastructure itself may diminish the demand for our solutions, and could have a negative impact on our business.. The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our solutions in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet - related commerce or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet - based applications such as ours and reduce the demand for our solutions.. The legal and regulatory framework also drives demand for our solutions. Our customers are subject to laws, regulations and internal policies that mandate how they process, handle, store, use and transmit a variety of sensitive data and communications. These laws and regulations are subject to revision, change and interpretation at any time, and any such change could either help or hurt the demand for our solutions. We cannot be sure that the legal and regulatory framework in any given jurisdiction will be favorable to our business or that we will be able to sustain or grow our business if there are any adverse changes to these laws and regulations.. If we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the solutions we sell, we may be subject to liability for past sales and our future sales may decrease.. State and local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes to our subscription services in various jurisdictions is unclear. It is possible that we could face sales tax audits and that our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as state tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional amounts as taxes from our customers and remit those taxes to those authorities. We could also be subject to audits with respect to state and international jurisdictions for which we have not accrued tax liabilities. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so and do not accrue for sales taxes could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our application or otherwise harm our business and operating results.. Adverse conditions in the national and global economies and financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial results.. Adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our customers, thereby impacting our business, operating results or financial condition. Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the information technology industry, resulting in reduced demand for our solutions as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers and increased price competition for our solutions. Moreover, we target some of our solutions to the financial services industry and therefore if there is consolidation in that industry, or layoffs, or lack of funding for IT purchases, our business may suffer. If economic conditions deteriorate, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by manmade problems such as terrorism.. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our operations, international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us. We have significant operations in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. A major earthquake or other natural disaster, fire, act of terrorism or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be harmed. These negative events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers, and could decrease demand for our services. Because we do not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake - related losses, and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake or catastrophic event.. 26. Table of Contents. A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks.. Sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state and local governmental agency customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue in past periods, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. Sales into government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will win a sale. We have invested in the creation of a cloud offering that has been certified under both the Federal Information Security Management Act and the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program for government usage but we cannot be sure that we will continue to sustain or renew this certification, that the government will continue to mandate such certification or that other government agencies or entities will use this cloud offering. Government demand and payment for our solutions may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our solutions. Government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. For example, if the distributor receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such governmental entity, the financial health of the distributor could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such distributor. Governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors' administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our solutions, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. Any such penalties could adversely impact our results of operations in a material way.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), and the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ Global Market. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our principal executive and financial officers.. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. In addition, because we have acquired companies in the past and may continue to do so in the future, we will also need to expend resources to integrate the controls of these acquired entities with ours. Further, weaknesses in our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual independent registered public accounting firm report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K under Section 404 of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting - related costs, and provide significant management oversight. Any failure to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In the event that we or our independent registered public accounting firm are not able to complete the work required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis, or we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404, we could be subject to late filings of our annual and quarterly reports, restatements of consolidated financial statements or other corrective disclosure, and, investors may lose confidence in. 27. Table of Contents. our operating results and our stock price could decline. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Market.. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss or research tax credit carryforwards, which could adversely affect our profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses, some of which if not utilized will continue to expire in 2018 for federal and state purposes. We also have federal research tax credit carryforwards, which if not utilized will begin to expire in 2022. These net operating loss and research tax credit carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our profitability.. In addition, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, such as research tax credits, in any taxable year may be limited if we experience an \"ownership change.\" An \"ownership change\" generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws.. Future issuances of our stock could cause an \"ownership change.\" It is possible that any future ownership change could have a material effect on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, which could adversely affect our profitability.. We have been incurring significant costs and devoting substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. For example, we are required to comply with certain of the requirements of the Sarbanes - Oxley Act and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC, and the NASDAQ Global Market, our stock exchange, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. We expect that compliance with these requirements will continue to result in significant legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. In addition, we expect that our management and other personnel will need to divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to these public company requirements.. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may be subject to volatility in the future.. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile historically, and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors described below. These factors, as well as the volatility of our common stock, could also impact the price of our convertible notes. Factors affecting the market price of our securities include:. • variations in our revenue, billings, gross margin, operating results, free cash flow, loss per share and how these results compare to analyst expectations;. • forward looking guidance that we may provide regarding financial metrics such as billings, revenue, gross margin, operating results, free cash flow, and loss per share;. • announcements of technological innovations, new products or services, strategic alliances, acquisitions or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;. • disruptions in our cloud-based operations or services or disruptions of other prominent cloud-based operations or services;. • the economy as a whole, market conditions in our industry, and the industries of our customers;. • trading activity by directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares;. • the size of our market float and significant option exercises;. • any future issuances of securities;. • sales and purchases of any common stock issued upon conversion of our convertible notes; and. 28. Table of Contents. • any other factors discussed herein.. In addition, the stock markets in general and the NASDAQ Global Market in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume volatility that is often seemingly unrelated to the operating results of any particular companies.  Moreover, if the market for technology stocks, especially security and cloud computing-related stocks, or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price for our stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry, even if these events do not directly affect us. Some companies that have experienced volatility in the trading price of their stock have been subject of securities litigation. If we are the subject of such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. We have indebtedness in the form of convertible senior notes.. In June 2015, we completed an offering of $230.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.75% convertible senior notes due 2020 (the \"0.75% Notes,\"). As a result of this convertible notes offering, we incurred $230.0 million principal amount of indebtedness, the principal amount of which we may be required to pay at maturity in 2020, or, upon the occurrence of a make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the indentures). There can be no assurance that we will be able to repay this indebtedness when due, or that we will be able to refinance this indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, this indebtedness could, among other things:. • make it difficult for us to pay other obligations;. • make it difficult to obtain favorable terms for any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service the indebtedness, reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes; and. • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business.. Conversion of our 0.75% Notes may affect the price of our common stock and the value of the 0.75% Notes.. The conversion of some or all of our 0.75% Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of common stock upon conversion. Holders of the 0.75% Notes will be able to convert them only upon the satisfaction of certain conditions prior to December 15, 2019. Upon conversion, holders of the 0.75% Notes will receive cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at our election. Any sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion of the 0.75% Notes could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of the 0.75% Notes.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and convertible notes, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition of our company deemed undesirable by our board of directors. These provisions could also reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:. • creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms;. • authorizing \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board without stockholder approval which may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights which are superior to our common stock;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings by providing that any stockholder action must be effected at a duly called meeting of the stockholders and not by a consent in writing, and providing that only our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer or President may call a special meeting of the stockholders; and. • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors.. 29. Table of Contents. These provisions, alone or together, could frustrate, delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. In addition, the fundamental changes provisions of our Notes may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, because those provisions allow note holders to require us to repurchase such Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture for the Notes).  Furthermore, the indenture for the Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations merging or combining with us without approval of the holders of a substantial majority of all of our outstanding common stock.. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and invest in new solutions could reduce our ability to compete and could harm our business.. We may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock could decline. If we issue equity securities in any additional financing, the new securities may have rights and preferences senior to our common stock. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things:. • develop or enhance our application and services;. • continue to expand our product development, sales and marketing organizations;. • acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses;. • expand operations, in the United States or internationally;. • hire, train and retain employees; or. • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of the Notes.. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, the vesting of restricted stock units and restricted stock pursuant to our employee benefit plans, for purchase by employees under our employee stock purchase plan, and upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the Notes and the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock."
