[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. We assume and manage a certain degree of risk in order to conduct our business.  In addition to the risk factors described below, other risks and uncertainties not specifically mentioned, or that are currently known to, or deemed by, management to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operation and/or cash flows.  Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K.  If any of the circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occur to a significant degree, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the national economy and the regional economies on which we depend.. As of June 30, 2018, approximately 78% of our real estate loans were secured by collateral and made to borrowers located in Southern California with the balance located predominantly throughout the rest of California.  Adverse economic conditions in California may reduce our rate of growth, affect our customers' ability to repay loans and adversely impact our financial condition and earnings.  General economic conditions, including inflation, unemployment and money supply fluctuations, also may adversely affect our profitability adversely.  Weakness in the global economy has adversely affected many businesses operating in our markets that are dependent upon international trade.. While real estate values and unemployment rates have recently improved, deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. <U+25AA> an increase in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures;. <U+25AA> we may increase our allowance for loan losses. <U+25AA> the slowing of sales of foreclosed assets;. <U+25AA> a decline in demand for our products and services;. <U+25AA> a decline in the value of collateral for loans may in turn reduce customers' borrowing power, and the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;. <U+25AA> the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and. <U+25AA> a decrease in the amount of our low cost or non interest-bearing deposits.. A decline in Southern California economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. Many of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. Deterioration in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could negatively affect the borrower's ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies. 45. and natural disasters such as fires and earthquakes. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. At June 30, 2018, $314.8 million, or 34.6% of our loans held for investment, were secured by single-family residential real property.  This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Jumbo single-family loans which do not conform to secondary market mortgage requirements for our market areas are not immediately saleable in the secondary market and may expose us to increased risk because of their larger balances. Recessionary conditions or declines in the volume of single-family real estate sales and/or the sales prices as well as elevated unemployment rates may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, and a decline in demand for our products and services. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. Further, the Tax Act enacted in the fourth quarter of 2017 could negatively impact our customers because it lowers the existing caps on mortgage interest deductions and limits the state and local tax deductions. These changes could make it more difficult for borrowers to make their loan payments, and could also negatively impact the housing market, which could adversely affect our business and loan growth.. Further, many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio and a concurrent second mortgage for a combined loan-to-value ratio of up to 100% or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses.. Our prior emphasis on non-traditional single-family residential loans exposes us to increased lending risk.. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, we originated $1.28 billion and $1.99 billion, respectively, in single-family residential loans.  We historically sell the vast majority of the single-family residential loans we originate and purchase and retain the remaining single-family residential loans as held for investment.  As a result of our focus on managing our asset quality, single-family loans originated and purchased for investment were $90.4 million and $99.8 million during these same time periods, virtually all of which conform to or satisfy the requirements for sale in the secondary market.. Prior to fiscal 2009, many of the loans we originated for investment consisted of non-traditional single-family residential loans that do not conform to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines as a result of characteristics of the borrower or property, the loan terms, loan size or exceptions from agency underwriting guidelines.  In exchange for the additional risk to us associated with these loans, these borrowers generally are required to pay a higher interest rate, and depending on the credit history, a lower loan-to-value ratio was generally required than for a conforming loan.  Our non-traditional single-family residential loans include interest-only loans, loans to borrowers who provided limited or no documentation of their income or stated income loans, negative amortization loans (a loan in which accrued interest exceeding the required monthly loan payment is added to loan principal up to 115% of the original loan amount), more than 30-year amortization loans, and loans to borrowers with a FICO score below 660 (these loans are considered subprime by the OCC).  Including these low FICO score loans, as of June 30, 2018, our single-family residential borrowers had a weighted average FICO score of 735 at the time of loan origination.. As of June 30, 2018, these non-traditional loans totaled $79.0 million, comprising 25.0% of total single-family residential loans held for investment and 8.7% of total loans held for investment.  At that date, interest-only loans totaled $1.5 million, stated income loans totaled $72.0 million, negative amortization loans totaled $2.3 million, more than 30-year amortization loans totaled $8.9 million, and low FICO score loans totaled $7.6 million (the outstanding balances described may overlap more than one category).  In the case of interest-only loans, a borrower's monthly payment is subject to change when the loan converts to fully-amortizing status.  At June 30, 2018, all of our interest-only loans begin to fully amortize after one to five years.  Since the borrower's monthly payment may increase by a substantial amount even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates, there is no assurance that the borrower will be able to afford the increased monthly payment at the time of conversion.  Additionally, lower prevailing prices for residential real estate may make it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes to pay off their mortgages and tightened underwriting standards may make it difficult for borrowers to refinance their loan prior to the time of conversion to fully-amortizing status.  At June 30, 2018, none of the interest-only single-family residential loans were non-performing and none were 30-89 days delinquent.. 46. In the case of stated income loans, a borrower may misrepresent his income or source of income (which we have not verified) to obtain the loan.  The borrower may not have sufficient income to qualify for the loan amount and may not be able to make the monthly loan payment.  At June 30, 2018, $3.7 million of our stated income single-family residential loans were non-performing and none were 30-89 days delinquent.. In the case of more than 30-year amortization loans, the term of the loan requires many more monthly payments from the borrower (ultimately increasing the cost of the home) and subjects the loan to more interest rate cycles, economic cycles and employment cycles, which increases the possibility that the borrower is negatively impacted by one of these cycles and is no longer willing or able to meet his or her monthly payment obligations.  At June 30, 2018, $630,000 of our more than 30-year amortization single-family residential loans were non-performing and none were 30-89 days delinquent.. Negative amortization involves a greater risk to us because credit risk exposure increases when the loan incurs negative amortization and the value of the home serving as collateral for the loan does not increase proportionally.  Negative amortization is only permitted up to a specified level and the payment on such loans is subject to increased payments when the level is reached, adjusting periodically as provided in the loan documents and potentially resulting in higher payments from the borrower.  The adjustment of these loans to higher payment requirements can be a substantial factor in higher loan delinquency levels because the borrowers may not be able to make the higher payments.  Also, real estate values may decline and credit standards may tighten in concert with the higher payment requirement, making it difficult for borrowers to sell their homes or refinance their mortgages to pay off their mortgage obligation.  As of June 30, 2018, the Bank had $2.3 million of single-family loans which permitted negative amortization as compared to $2.7 million of single-family loans at June 30, 2017.. Our multi-family and commercial real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers.. We originate multi-family residential and commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by residential and non-residential properties.  At June 30, 2018, we had $585.7 million or 64.4% of total loans held for investment in multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans.  These loans typically involve higher principal amounts than other types of loans and some of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential loan. Repayment on these loans is dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, which may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower's project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired.  Multi-family and commercial real estate loans also expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by single-family residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be sold as easily as single-family residential real estate.  In addition, many of our multi-family and commercial real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity.  Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment.  In addition, as of June 30, 2018, the Bank had $5.5 million in negative amortization multi-family and commercial real estate mortgage loans (a loan in which accrued interest exceeding the required monthly loan payment may be added to the loan principal) as compared to $6.3 million at June 30, 2017.  Negative amortization involves a greater risk to the Bank because the credit risk exposure increases when the loan incurs negative amortization and the value of the property serving as collateral for the loan does not increase proportionally.. A secondary market for most types of multi-family loans and commercial real estate is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. As a result of these characteristics, if we foreclose on a multi-family or commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for a single-family residential mortgage loan because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Accordingly, charge-offs on multi-family and commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our single-family residential or consumer loan portfolios.. We occasionally purchase loans in bulk or \"pools.\" We may experience lower yields or losses on loan \"pools\" because the assumptions we use when purchasing loans in bulk may not prove correct.. In order to achieve our loan growth objectives and/or improve earnings, we may purchase loans, either individually, through participations, or in bulk. The Corporation purchased $13.5 million of loans to be held for investment (primarily multi-family loans) in fiscal 2018, compared to $61.7 million of purchased loans to be held for investment (primarily multi-family loans) in fiscal 2017.  When we determine the purchase price we are willing to pay to purchase loans in bulk, management makes certain. 47. assumptions about, among other things, how fast borrowers will prepay their loans, the real estate market, our ability to collect loans successfully and, if necessary, our ability to dispose of any real estate that may be acquired through foreclosure. When we purchase loans in bulk, we perform certain due diligence procedures and typically require customary limited indemnities. To the extent that our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate or the basis for those assumptions change, the purchase price paid for \"pools\" of loans may prove to have been excessive, resulting in a lower yield or a loss of some or all of the loan principal. Our success in growing through purchases of loan \"pools\" depends on our ability to price loan \"pools\" properly and on the general economic conditions within the geographic areas where the underlying properties of our loans are located.. We may experience continuing variation in our operating results.. We reported net income of $2.1 million, $5.2 million and $7.5 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  Several factors affecting our business can cause significant variations in our quarterly and annual results of operations.  In particular, variations in the volume of our loan originations and sales, the differences between our costs of funds and the average interest rates of originated or purchased loans, our inability to complete significant loan sale transactions in a particular quarter and problems generally affecting the mortgage loan industry can result in significant increases or decreases in our revenues from quarter to quarter.  A delay in closing a particular loan sale transaction during a quarter or year could postpone recognition of the gain on sale of loans.  If we were unable to sell a sufficient number of loans at a premium in a particular reporting period, our revenues for such period could decline, resulting in lower net income and possibly a net loss for such period, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio.. Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:. <U+25AA> cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;. <U+25AA> the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;. <U+25AA> the duration of the loan;. <U+25AA> the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower; and. <U+25AA> changes in economic and industry conditions.. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+25AA> our collectively evaluated allowance, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management's expectations of future events; and. <U+25AA> our individually evaluated allowance, based on our evaluation of non-performing loans and the underlying collateral.. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans, losses, and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions and make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. If our estimates are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in the need for additions to our allowance through an increase in the provision for loan losses, which is charged against income.  Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the provision for loan losses and our allowance for loan losses.  Further, included in our single-family residential loan portfolio, which comprised 34.6% of our total loan portfolio at June 30, 2018, were $79.0 million or 8.7% of total loans held for investment that were non-traditional single-family loans, which include interest-only loans, negative amortization and more than 30-year amortization loans, stated income loans and low FICO score loans, all of which have a higher risk of default and loss than conforming residential mortgage loans.  For additional information, see \"Our prior emphasis on non-traditional single-family residential loans exposes us to increased lending risk\" above. Management also recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner and will increase the risk that our allowance may be insufficient to absorb losses without significant additional provisions. Furthermore, the Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will be effective. 48. for our fiscal year after December 15, 2019. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans, and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses at inception of the loan. This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, and may greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management.  If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the provision for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital.. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will be adversely affected.. At June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans and REO were $7.0 million, $9.6 million and $13.0 million, respectively, or 0.6%, 0.8% and 1.1% of total assets, respectively.  Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways:. <U+25AA> we record interest income only on a cash basis for non-accrual loans except for non-performing loans under the cost recovery method where interest is applied to the principal of the loan as a recovery of the charge-offs, if any, and we do not record interest income for REO;. <U+25AA> we must provide for probable loan losses through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses;. <U+25AA> non-interest expense increases when we write down the value of properties in our REO portfolio to reflect changing market values or recognize other-than-temporary impairment (\"OTTI\") on non-performing investment securities;. <U+25AA> there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets, as well as carrying costs, such as taxes, insurance, and maintenance fees related to our REO; and. <U+25AA> the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity.. If additional borrowers become delinquent and do not pay their loans and we are unable to successfully manage our non-performing assets, our losses and troubled assets could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels.. Uncertainty relating to the LIBOR calculation process and potential phasing out of LIBOR may adversely affect our results of operations.. On July 27, 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calibration of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021. The announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. It is impossible to predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide LIBOR submissions to the administrator of LIBOR or whether any additional reforms to LIBOR may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. At this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates may become acceptable alternatives to LIBOR and it is impossible to predict the effect of any such alternatives on the value of LIBOR-based securities and variable rate loans, subordinated debentures, or other securities or financial arrangements, given LIBOR's role in determining market interest rates globally. Uncertainty as to the nature of alternative reference rates and as to potential changes or other reforms to LIBOR may adversely affect LIBOR rates and the value of LIBOR-based loans and securities in our portfolio, and may impact the availability and cost of hedging instruments. 49. and borrowings. If LIBOR rates are no longer available, and we are required to implement substitute indices for the calculation of interest rates under our loan agreements with our borrowers, we may incur significant expenses in effecting the transition, and may be subject to disputes or litigation with customers over the appropriateness or comparability to LIBOR of the substitute indices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. If our investments in real estate are not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced.. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed upon and the property is taken in as REO and at certain other times during the REO holding period.  Our net book value (\"NBV\") in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (\"fair value\"). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset's NBV over its fair value.  If our valuation process is incorrect, the fair value of the investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our NBV in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional material charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs.  Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. An increase in interest rates, change in the programs offered by governmental sponsored entities (\"GSE\") or our ability to qualify for such programs may reduce our mortgage revenues, which would negatively impact our non-interest income.. Our mortgage banking operations provide a significant portion of our non-interest income.  We generate mortgage revenues primarily from gains on the sale of single-family residential loans pursuant to programs currently offered by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other investors on a servicing released basis. These entities account for a substantial portion of the secondary market in residential mortgage loans.  Any future changes in these programs, significant impairment of our eligibility to participate in such programs, the criteria for loans to be accepted or laws that significantly affect the activity of such entities could, in turn, result in a lower volume of corresponding loan originations or other administrative costs which may materially adversely affect our results of operations.. We have experienced historically low interest rates in recent years but interest rates have been increasing. Mortgage production, especially refinancing, generally declines in rising interest rate environments resulting in fewer loans that are available to be sold to investors. When interest rates rise, or even if they do not, there can be no assurance that our mortgage production will continue at current levels. Because we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate, the profitability of our mortgage banking operations depends in large part upon our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, in addition to the interest rate environment, our mortgage business is dependent upon (i) the existence of an active secondary market and (ii) our ability to profitably sell loans into that market. The loans in our held for sale portfolio are carried at fair market value with changes recognized in our statement of operations. Carrying the loans at fair value may also increase the volatility in our earnings.. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expense associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense and other operating costs.  During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in loan originations.. Any breach of representations and warranties made by us to our loan purchasers or credit default on our loan sales may require us to repurchase or substitute such loans we have sold.. We engage in bulk loan sales pursuant to agreements that generally require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event of a breach of a representation or warranty made by us to the loan purchaser.  Any misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process or, in some cases, upon any fraud or early payment default on such mortgage loans, may require us to repurchase or substitute loans. Any claims asserted against us in the future by one of our loan purchasers may result in liabilities or legal expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  During fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, the Bank repurchased $602,000, $1.7 million and $1.7 million of single-family loans, respectively.  However, many additional repurchase requests were settled during the periods that did not result in the repurchase of the loan itself.  Aggregate payments of $0, $11,000 and $470,000 were made for loan repurchase settlements in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  The loan. 50. repurchase settlement in fiscal 2016 was due primarily to a global settlement with one of the Bank's legacy loan investors, which eliminated all past, current and future repurchase claims from this particular investor, in exchange for a one-time $400,000 payment.. The CFPB, which was created under the Dodd-Frank Act, has issued a number of final regulations and changes to certain consumer protections under existing laws and continues to issue new rules.  These final rules, most of the provisions of which (including the qualified mortgage rule) generally prohibit creditors from extending mortgage loans without regard for the consumer's ability-to-repay and add restrictions and requirements to mortgage origination and servicing practices.  In addition, these rules limit prepayment penalties and require the creditor to retain evidence of compliance with the ability-to-repay requirement for three years.  Compliance with these rules has increased our overall regulatory compliance costs and may require changes to our underwriting practices with respect to residential mortgage loans.  This includes compliance with, The Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule, which combines certain disclosures that consumers receive in connection with applying for and closing a mortgage loan.. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings.. We employ techniques that limit, or \"hedge,\" the adverse effects of rising interest rates on our loans held for sale, originated interest rate locks and our mortgage servicing asset. Our hedging activity varies based on the level and volatility of interest rates and other changing market conditions. These techniques may include purchasing or selling futures contracts, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into other mortgage-backed derivatives. There are, however, no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. Moreover, hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not materialize.  Additionally, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things:. <U+25AA> available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;. <U+25AA> the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;. <U+25AA> the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay;. <U+25AA> the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction;. <U+25AA> the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value; and. <U+25AA> downward adjustments, or \"mark-to-market losses,\" would reduce our stockholders' equity.. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. In an attempt to help the overall economy, the Federal Reserve has kept interest rates low through its targeted Fed Funds rate. The Federal Reserve Board has steadily increased the federal funds rate over the last three fiscal years to a range of 1.75% to 2.00% in June 2018 and indicated further increases in the federal funds rate in the future subject to economic conditions. As the Federal Reserve increases the targeted Fed Funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but these changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, which could negatively impact shareholders' equity, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (iii) our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; (iv) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and (v) the average duration of our investment  securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected.. 51. As a result of the relatively low interest rate environment, an significant percentage of our deposits are comprised of certificates of deposit and other deposits yielding no or a relatively low rate of interest having a shorter duration than our assets. At June 30, 2018, we had $116.3 million in time deposits that mature within one year and $583.8 million in interest-bearing checking, savings and money market accounts.  We would incur a higher cost of funds to retain these deposits in a rising interest rate environment.  Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.  In addition, a substantial majority of our single family residential mortgage loans have adjustable interest rates.  As a result, these loans may experience a higher rate of default in a rising interest rate environment.. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and, in particular, our securities portfolio.  Generally, the fair value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates.  Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax.  Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our consolidated balance sheet or projected operating results.. The financial services market is undergoing rapid technological changes, and if we are unable to stay current with those. changes, we will not be able to effectively compete.. The financial services market, including mortgage banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep pace with the technological changes and to use technology to satisfy and grow customer demand for our products and services and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. We expect that we will need to make substantial investments in our technology and information systems to compete effectively and to stay current with technological changes. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and will be able to invest more heavily in developing and adopting new technologies, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. Conditions in the financial markets may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs.. Liquidity is essential to our business.  An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans or other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general.  Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the California markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us.  Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.  Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and the prepayment of loans and mortgage-related securities are also strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived, and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. In particular, our liquidity position could be significantly constrained if we are unable to access funds from the FHLB-San Francisco or other wholesale funding sources, or if adequate financing is not available at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 52. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.. The USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts require financial institutions to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities.  If such activities are detected, financial institutions are obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.  These rules require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts.  Failure to comply with these regulations could result in fines or sanctions and limit our ability to get regulatory approval of acquisitions.  Recently several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations.  While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, no assurance can be given that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. Our growth or future losses may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of that capital may be very high.. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Currently, we believe our capital resources satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our growth.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, any additional capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Further, if we are unable to raise additional capital when required by our bank regulators, we may be subject to adverse regulatory action.. Our litigation related costs might continue to increase.. The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of the Bank's business. The Bank's involvement in litigation has recently increased significantly, primarily as a result of employment matters. The expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect the Bank's results of operations until they are resolved. Further, there can be no assurance that the Bank's loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. For a discussion of our pending litigation, see Item 3. \"Legal Proceedings\" of this Form 10-K.. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased.  We have also experienced an increase in losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, there can be no assurance that such losses will not occur.. We are subject to certain risks in connection with our use of technology.. Our security measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of a cyber attack. Communications and information systems are essential to the conduct of our business, as we use such systems to manage our customer relationships, our general ledger and virtually all other aspects of our business. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software, and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, fraudulent or unauthorized access, denial or degradation of service attacks, misuse, computer viruses, malware or other malicious code and cyber-attacks that could have a security impact. If one or more of these events occur, this could jeopardize our or our customers' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or the operations of our customers or counterparties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We could also suffer significant reputational damage.. 53. Further, our cardholders use their debit and credit cards to make purchases from third parties or through third party processing services. As such, we are subject to risk from data breaches of such third party's information systems or their payment processors. Such a data security breach could compromise our account information. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for losses associated with reimbursing our clients for such fraudulent transactions on clients' card accounts, as well as costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. We may also incur other costs related to data security breaches, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs.. Breaches of information security also may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access to our systems or our clients' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees. The Corporation is continuously working to install new and upgrade its existing information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to further protect the Corporation against cyber risks and security breaches.. There continues to be a rise in electronic fraudulent activity, security breaches and cyber-attacks within the financial services industry. We are regularly the target of attempted cyber and other security threats and must continuously monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events that could have a security impact. Insider or employee cyber and security threats are increasingly a concern for companies, including ours. We are not aware that we have experienced any material misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information as a result of a cyber-security breach or other act, however, some of our clients may have been affected by these breaches, which could increase their risks of identity theft, debit card fraud and other fraudulent activity that could involve their accounts with us.. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could further expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our clients and underlying transactions. Any compromise of our security could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. Although we have developed and continue to invest in systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures, and could result in losses to us or our customers, our loss of business and/or customers, damage to our reputation, the incurrence of additional expenses, disruption to our business, our inability to grow our online services or other businesses, additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties, or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our security measures may not protect us from system failures or interruptions. While we have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of systems failures and interruptions, there can be no assurance that such events will not occur or that they will be adequately addressed if they do. In addition, we outsource certain aspects of our data processing and other operational functions to certain third-party providers. While the Corporation selects third-party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. If our third-party providers encounter difficulties including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher transaction volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches or if we otherwise have difficulty in communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct business operations could be adversely impacted. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. We cannot assure you that such breaches, failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from breaches, system failures or other disruptions. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as. 54. found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Further, the occurrence of any systems failure or interruption could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business, could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to legal liability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The board of directors oversees the risk management process, including the risk of cybersecurity, and engages with management on cybersecurity issues.. Our operations rely on numerous external vendors.. We rely on numerous external vendors to provide us with products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations. Accordingly, our operations are exposed to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements. The failure of an external vendor to perform in accordance with the contracted arrangements under service level agreements because of changes in the vendor's organizational structure, financial condition, support for existing products and services or strategic focus or for any other reason, could be disruptive to our operations, which in turn could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be adversely affected to the extent such an agreement is not renewed by a third party vendor or is renewed on terms less favorable to us. Additionally, the bank regulatory agencies expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of our vendors' performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees.. Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers.  We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.  Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation.. Earthquakes, fires, mudslides and other natural disasters in our primary market area may result in material losses because of damage to collateral properties and borrowers' inability to repay loans.. Since our geographic concentration is in Southern California, we are subject to earthquakes, fires, mudslides and other natural disasters. A major earthquake or other natural disaster may disrupt our business operations for an indefinite period of time and could result in material losses, although we have not experienced any losses in many years as a result of earthquake damage or other natural disaster.    Although we are in an earthquake prone area, we and other lenders in the market area may not require earthquake insurance as a condition of making a loan.  In addition to possibly sustaining damage to our own properties, if there is a major earthquake, fire, mudslide, or other natural disaster, we face the risk that many of our borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations.. Our assets as of June 30, 2018 include a deferred tax asset, the full value of which we may not be able to realize.. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities.  At June 30, 2018, the net deferred tax asset was approximately $4.2 million, a decrease from $4.3 million at the prior fiscal year end.  The net deferred tax asset results primarily from (1) our provisions for loan losses recorded for financial reporting purposes, which were in the past significantly larger than net loan charge-offs deducted for tax reporting proposes, (2) deferred compensation, (3) litigation reserves and (4) deferred loan costs.. As a result of our follow-on stock offering in December 2009, we may experience an \"ownership change\" as defined under Section 382 of the Code (which is generally a greater than 50 percentage point increase by certain \"5% shareholders\" over a rolling three-year period). Section 382 imposes an annual limitation on the utilization of deferred tax assets, such as net operating loss. 55. carryforwards and other tax attributes, once an ownership change has occurred. Depending on the size of the annual limitation (which is in part a function of our market capitalization at the time of the ownership change) and the remaining carryforward period of the tax assets (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years), we could realize a permanent loss of a portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes.. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carryback years, as well as future taxable income. We believe the recorded net deferred tax asset at June 30, 2018 is fully realizable based on our expected future earnings; however, we will not know the impact of the ownership change until we complete our fiscal 2018 tax return. Based on our preliminary analysis of the actual impact of the \"ownership change\" on our deferred tax assets, we believe that the impact on our deferred tax asset is unlikely to be material. This is a preliminary and complex analysis and requires us to make certain judgments in determining the annual limitation. As a result, it is possible that we could ultimately lose a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition."
