[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained within this report. The occurrence of one or more of the circumstances or events described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may occur or become material and may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. A substantial portion of our revenue and gross profit is derived from a small number of large wholesale customers and the loss of any of these customers or significant financial difficulties in their businesses could substantially reduce our revenue.. A few of our customers account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 18.9% of our revenue in 2017, 21.3% of our revenue in 2016 and 22.2% of our revenue in 2015. No single customer accounted for. 16. more than 10% of our revenue in 2017, 2016 or 2015. Macy's announced in 2016 plans to close approximately 100 stores, of which 82 were closed during 2017 and 2016. J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (\"J. C. Penney\") closed 139 locations in 2017 and announced plans to close eight additional stores in 2018. These store closings resulted in a decrease in the total amount of purchases made by Macy's and J. C. Penney, two of our ten largest customers in 2017. A continued decline in purchases made over the next several years could have a materially adverse effect on our United States wholesale business.. We have an agreement with Macy's pursuant to which Macy's is the exclusive department store distributor in the United States of men's sportswear under the TOMMY HILFIGER brand; G-III, a licensee of the TOMMY HILFIGER brand, has a similar arrangement with Macy's for women's sportswear under the TOMMY HILFIGER brand. The term of our agreement ends on January 31, 2020. As a result of these strategic alliances, the success of Tommy Hilfiger's North American men's wholesale business and our licensed women's wholesale business with G-III are substantially dependent on this relationship and on the ability of Macy's to maintain and increase sales of TOMMY HILFIGER products. In addition, the United States men's and women's businesses may be affected by any operational or financial difficulties that Macy's experiences, including any deterioration in the overall ability of Macy's to attract customer traffic or in its overall liquidity position.. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our customers, other than Tommy Hilfiger's strategic alliance with Macy's, and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. A decision by any of our major customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing or other partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing or other partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our profitability. During the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes, as well as management changes and store closing programs, and we expect such changes to be ongoing. In addition, store closings by our customers, such as those described above, decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets or marketing strategies. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our customers. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to continue to develop and grow our Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses in terms of revenue and profitability.. A significant portion of our business strategy involves growing our Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses. Our achievement of revenue and profitability growth from Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger will depend largely upon our ability to:. • continue to maintain and enhance the distinctive brand identities of the CALVIN KLEIN and TOMMY HILFIGER brands;. • retain key employees at our Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses;. • continue to maintain good working relationships with Calvin Klein's and Tommy Hilfiger's licensees;. • continue to enter into new, or renew or extend existing, license agreements for the CALVIN KLEIN and TOMMY HILFIGER brands; and. • continue to strengthen and expand the Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses.. We cannot assure you that we can successfully execute any of these actions or our growth strategy for these businesses, nor can we assure you that the launch of any additional product lines or businesses by us or our licensees or that the continued offering of these lines will achieve the degree of consistent success necessary to generate profits or positive cash flow. Our ability to successfully carry out our growth strategy may be affected by, among other things, our ability to enhance our relationships with existing customers to obtain additional selling space or add additional product lines, our ability to develop new relationships with retailers, economic and competitive conditions, changes in consumer spending patterns and changes in consumer tastes and style trends. If we fail to continue to develop and grow the Calvin Klein or Tommy Hilfiger business in terms of revenue and profitability, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. 17. The success of our Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses depends on the value of our \"CALVIN KLEIN\" and \"TOMMY HILFIGER\" brands, and if the value of either of those brands were to diminish, our business could be adversely affected.. Our success depends on our brands and their value. The CALVIN KLEIN name is integral to the existing Calvin Klein business, as well as to our strategies for continuing to grow and expand the business. The CALVIN KLEIN brands could be adversely affected if Mr. Klein's public image or reputation were to be tarnished. We have similar exposure with respect to the TOMMY HILFIGER brands. Mr. Hilfiger, who remains active in the business, is closely identified with the TOMMY HILFIGER brand and any negative perception with respect to Mr. Hilfiger could adversely affect the TOMMY HILFIGER brands. In addition, under Mr. Hilfiger's employment agreement, if his employment is terminated for any reason, his agreement not to compete with the Tommy Hilfiger business will expire two years after such termination. Although Mr. Hilfiger could not use any TOMMY HILFIGER trademark in connection with a competitive business, his association with a competitive business could adversely affect the Tommy Hilfiger business.. Our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop.. We have retail stores located near vacation destinations and the majority of our United States retail stores are located away from major residential centers. As a result, reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if such events impact certain of our higher-volume retail locations. Additionally, during times of a strengthening United States dollar, particularly against the euro, the Brazilian real, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso and the Chinese yuan renminbi, as was the case during 2015 and 2016, international tourism to the United States could be (and, in 2015 and 2016, was) reduced, as could the extent to which international tourists shop at our retail stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales in our United States retail stores, which are material contributors of revenue and profits. Other factors that could affect the success of our stores include:. • the location of the store or mall, including the location of a particular store within the mall;. • the other tenants occupying space at the mall;. • increased competition in areas where the stores are located;. • the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the store or mall;. • the changing patterns of consumer shopping behavior;. • increased competition from online retailers; and. • the diversion of sales from our retail stores due to our digital commerce business.. Acquisitions may not be successful in achieving intended benefits, cost savings and synergies.. One component of our growth strategy has been to make acquisitions, such as the Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger and Warnaco acquisitions. Prior to completing any acquisition, our management team identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities but, due to legal and business limitations, we may not have access to all necessary information. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The potential difficulties of integrating the operations of an acquired business and realizing our expectations for an acquisition, including the benefits that may be realized, include, among other things:. • failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;. • delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets;. • higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties;. • unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems;. • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations affecting the acquired business;. • unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators;. 18. • retaining key customers, suppliers and employees;. • retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits;. • operating risks inherent in the acquired business;. • diversion of the attention and resources of management;. • consumers' failure to accept product offerings by us or our licensees;. • assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence;. • the impact on our or an acquired business' internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and. • other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.. We have completed acquisitions that have not performed as well as initially expected and cannot assure you that any acquisition will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Future economic conditions, including volatility in the financial and credit markets may adversely affect our business.. Economic conditions in the past have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, our business, our customers and their businesses, and our financing and other contractual arrangements. Such conditions, among other things, have resulted, and in the future may result, in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, and may continue to cause such customers to reduce or discontinue orders of our products or be unable to pay us for products they have purchased from us. Financial difficulties of customers may also affect the ability of our customers to access credit markets or lead to higher credit risk relating to receivables from customers.. Future volatility in the financial and credit markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing or refinance existing debt when the need arises or on terms that would be acceptable to us.. Our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and control regulations.. Our Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger businesses each have substantial international components that expose us to significant foreign exchange risk. Our Heritage Brands business also has international components but those components are not significant to the business. Changes in exchange rates between the United States dollar and other currencies can impact our financial results in two ways: a translation impact and a transaction impact. The translation impact refers to the impact that changes in exchange rates can have on our financial results, as our operating results in local foreign currencies are translated into United States dollars using an average exchange rate over the representative period. Accordingly, our operating results will be unfavorably impacted during times of a strengthening United States dollar, particularly against the euro, the Brazilian real, the Japanese yen, the Korean won, the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Indian rupee, the Russian ruble and the Chinese yuan renminbi, and favorably impacted during times of a weakening United States dollar against those currencies.. A transaction impact on financial results is common for apparel companies operating outside the United States that purchase goods in United States dollars, as is the case with most of our foreign operations. As with translation, our operating results will be impacted as fluctuations of the United States dollar change the local currency value of inventory, which results in a change in the cost of goods in local currency when the goods are sold. We also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to certain intercompany transactions and selling, general and administrative (\"SG&A\") expenses. We currently use and plan to continue to use foreign currency forward exchange contracts or other derivative instruments to mitigate the cash flow or market value risks associated with these inventory and intercompany transactions, but we are unable to entirely eliminate these risks.. We are also exposed to foreign exchange risk in connection with our licensing businesses. Most of our license agreements require the licensee to report sales to us in the licensee's local currency but to pay us in United States dollars based on the exchange rate as of the last day of the contractual selling period. Thus, while we are not generally exposed to exchange rate gains and losses between the end of the selling period and the date we collect payment, we are exposed to exchange rate changes during and up to the last day of the selling period. In addition, certain of our other foreign license agreements expose us to exchange rate changes up to the date we collect payment or convert local currency payments into United States dollars. As. 19. a result, during times of a strengthening United States dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be negatively impacted, and during times of a weakening United States dollar, our foreign royalty revenue will be favorably impacted.. During 2015 and 2016, our results were negatively impacted significantly by the strong United States dollar.. We also have exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates related to our \200950 million aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated senior notes. During times of a weakening United States dollar against the euro, we could be required to use a greater portion of our cash flows from operations to pay interest and make long-term debt repayments.. We conduct business, directly or through licensees and other partners, in countries that are or have been subject to exchange rate control regulations and have, as a result, experienced difficulties in receiving payments owed to us when due, with amounts left unpaid for extended periods of time. Although the amounts to date have been immaterial to our results, as our international businesses grow and if controls are enacted or enforced in additional countries, there can be no assurance that such controls would not have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our level of debt could impair our financial condition and ability to operate.. We had outstanding as of February 4, 2018 an aggregate of $3.086 billion of indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, our senior unsecured notes and our secured debentures. Our level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including:. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to us for our operations or other capital needs;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt may not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flow, we will be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our debt;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, contributions to our pension plans and general corporate requirements;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to other relatively less leveraged competitors that have more cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments, contributions to pension plans and general corporate requirements; and. • with respect to any borrowings we make at variable interest rates, including under our senior secured credit facilities, leaving us vulnerable to increases in interest rates to the extent the borrowings are not subject to an interest rate swap agreement.. We primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations.. The majority of our apparel and footwear products are produced by and purchased or procured from independent manufacturers located in countries in Europe, Asia, the Middle East, South America, the Caribbean, Central America and Africa. Although no single supplier or country is expected to be critical to our production needs, any of the following could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:. • political or labor instability or military conflict involving any of the countries in which we, our contractors, or our suppliers operate, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials to us and an increase in transportation costs;. • heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundments of goods for extended periods or could result in decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands;. • a significant decrease in availability or increase in cost of raw materials or the inability to use raw materials produced in a country that is a major provider due to political, human rights, labor, environmental, animal cruelty or other concerns;. 20. • a significant decrease in factory and shipping capacity or increase in demand for such capacity;. • a significant increase in wage and shipping costs;. • natural disasters, which could result in closed factories and scarcity of raw materials;. • disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas;. • migration and development of manufacturers, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced;. • imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed;. • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; and. • restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located.. The United States government recently indicated its intention to impose significant tariffs on goods imported from China into the United States. China is the largest sourcing country of apparel, footwear and accessories for us and most of our licensees. We imported approximately $400 million of inventory into the United States from China in 2017. Enactment of such a proposal on apparel, footwear and accessories imported from China into the United States would result in an increase in our cost of goods sold for that product. We may not be able to shift production of inventory bound for the United States from China to other countries or pass the entire cost increase onto consumers, or could choose not to. Any increase in prices to consumers could have an adverse impact on our direct sales to consumers, as well as sales by our wholesale customers and our licensees. Any adverse impact on such sales or increase in our cost of goods sold could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees, or our licensees themselves fail to use legal and ethical business practices, our business could suffer.. We require our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees and the licensees themselves to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. Additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those areas in order to promote ethical business practices. We audit, or have audited by third parties, the operations of these independent parties to determine compliance. We are a signatory of the Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh to improve fire and building safety in Bangladesh's apparel factories and we continue to collaborate with factories, suppliers, industry participants and other engaged stakeholders to improve the lives of our factory workers and others in our sourcing communities. However, we do not control our manufacturers, the manufacturers used by our licensees, or our licensees themselves, or their labor, manufacturing and other business practices. If any of these manufacturers or licensees violates labor, environmental, building and fire safety, or other laws or implements labor, manufacturing or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled and relationships could be terminated. In addition, we could be the focus of adverse publicity and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations.. We are dependent on third parties to source and manufacture our products and any disruption in our relationships with these parties or in their businesses may materially adversely affect our businesses.. We rely upon independent third parties for the manufacturing of the vast majority of our apparel and footwear products. A manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those products. As a result, customers could cancel their orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. Any of these actions taken by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and, consequently, our results of operations.. We use third party buying offices for a portion of our product sourcing. Any interruption in the operations of these buying offices, or the failure of these buying offices to perform effectively their services for us, could result in material delays, reductions of shipments and increased costs. Furthermore, such events could harm our wholesale and retail relationships. Any disruption in our relationships with these buying offices or in their businesses could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. We are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. If one becomes inoperable, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted.. We operate a limited number of distribution facilities and also rely on certain independently operated distribution facilities around the world to warehouse and ship products to our customers and our own retail stores, as well as perform related logistics services. Our ability to meet the needs of our retail customers and of our own retail stores depends on the proper operation of our primary facilities. If any of our primary facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could have a substantial loss of inventory or disruptions of deliveries to our customers and our stores, incur significantly higher costs or experience longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the facility. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. A portion of our revenue is dependent on royalties and licensing.. The operating profit associated with our royalty, advertising and other revenue is significant because the operating expenses directly associated with administering and monitoring an individual license or similar agreement are minimal. Therefore, the loss of a significant licensee, whether due to the termination or expiration of the relationship, the cessation of the licensee's operations or otherwise (including as a result of financial difficulties of the licensee), without an equivalent replacement, could materially impact our profitability.. While we generally have significant control over our licensees' products and advertising, we rely on them for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. Our licensees' failure to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace our existing licensees could materially and adversely affect our revenue both directly from reduced royalty, advertising and other revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. Risks are also associated with our licensees' ability to obtain capital, execute their business plans, timely deliver quality products, manage their labor relations, maintain relationships with their suppliers, manage their credit risk effectively and maintain relationships with their customers.. Our licensing business makes us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control.. We rely on our licensees to preserve the value of our brands. Although we attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our products, we cannot assure you that we can control our licensees' use of our brands. The misuse of our brands by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.. Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights, especially with respect to the CALVIN KLEIN and TOMMY HILFIGER brands, as they enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally premium pricing of CALVIN KLEIN and TOMMY HILFIGER brand products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. Imitation or counterfeiting of our products or infringement of our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brands or otherwise adversely affect our revenue. We cannot assure you that the actions we take to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their own trademarks and intellectual property rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in marks that are similar to ours or marks that we license or market or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be trademark owners who have prior rights to our marks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar marks. For example, in the past we were involved in proceedings relating to a company's claim of prior rights to the IZOD mark in Mexico and to another company's claim of prior rights to the CALVIN KLEIN mark in Chile. We are currently involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to marks similar to some of our brands, both domestically and internationally.. 22. The success of our dress furnishings business is dependent on the strategies and reputation of our licensors.. Our business strategy is to offer our products on a multiple brand, multiple channel and multiple price point basis. This strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. As part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including Kenneth Cole and Michael Kors. In entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition between our own products and maximize profitability. If any of our licensors determines to \"reposition\" a brand we license from them, introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution, target market or competitive set, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. In addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted.. We face intense competition in the apparel industry.. Competition is intense in the apparel industry. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brand owners, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, some of which have greater resources than we do. We also face increased competition from online retailers in the digital channel, which is characterized by low barriers to entry. In addition, in certain instances, we compete directly with our wholesale customers, as they also sell their own private label products in their stores and online. We compete within the apparel industry primarily on the basis of:. • anticipating and responding to changing consumer tastes, demands and shopping preferences in a timely manner and developing attractive, quality products;. • maintaining favorable brand recognition, including an increased focus on digital brand engagement and social media presence;. • appropriately pricing products and creating an acceptable value proposition for customers;. • providing strong and effective marketing support;. • ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with third party manufacturers and retailers; and. • obtaining sufficient retail floor space at retail and effective presentation of our products at retail and on our digital commerce sites.. The failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly changing markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we misjudge the market for our products, we could be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for others.. Our profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on margins.. The apparel industry, particularly in the United States (our largest market), is subject to significant pricing pressure caused by many factors, including intense competition, consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers and changes in consumer demand. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers and consumers, which could cause our profitability to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels or offset price reductions with sufficient reductions in product costs or operating expenses. This could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively and accurately forecast demand for our products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We have made investments in our supply chain management systems and processes that enable us to respond more rapidly to changes in sales trends and consumer demands and enhance our ability to manage inventory. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate and respond successfully to changing consumer tastes and style trends or economic conditions and, as a result, we may not be able to manage inventory levels to meet our future order requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product required to meet demand. Inventory levels in excess of consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the reputation of our brands and our profitability. If we underestimate consumer demand for our products, we may not be able to have produced for us enough product to meet. 23. consumer requirements in a timely manner, which could result in lost revenues, as well as damage to our reputation and relationships.. The loss of members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on the services and management experience of our executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. We also depend on other key executives in various areas of our businesses and operations. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our key employees. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on us.. A significant shift in the relative sources of our earnings, adverse decisions of tax authorities or changes in tax treaties, laws, rules or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow.. We have direct operations in many countries and the applicable tax rates vary by jurisdiction. As a result, our overall effective tax rate could be materially affected by the relative level of earnings in the various taxing jurisdictions to which our earnings are subject. In addition, the tax laws and regulations in the countries where we operate may be subject to change, as evidenced by the United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Legislation\") enacted in December 2017 that will significantly change the way we are taxed. Moreover, there may be changes from time to time in interpretation and enforcement of tax law. As a result, we may pay additional taxes if tax rates increase or if tax laws, regulations or treaties in the jurisdictions where we operate are modified by the competent authorities in an adverse manner.. The Tax Legislation requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in United States tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the new law, and the accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. The United States Department of the Treasury could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Legislation should be applied or otherwise administered that may be different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Legislation, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the United States Department of the Treasury, the Internal Revenue Service and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments in 2018 to the provisional amounts recorded in 2017 during the measurement period as allowed by the SEC that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made.. In addition, various national and local taxing authorities periodically examine us and our subsidiaries. The resolution of an examination or audit may result in us paying more than the amount that we may have reserved for a particular tax matter, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, business, financial condition and results of operations for any affected reporting period.. We and our subsidiaries are engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. Although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, which should be respected for tax purposes, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities.. If we are unable to fully utilize our deferred tax assets, our profitability could be reduced.. Our deferred income tax assets are valuable to us. These assets include tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in various jurisdictions. Realization of deferred tax assets is based on a number of factors, including whether there will be adequate levels of taxable income in future periods to offset the tax loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen. Valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. In assessing the adequacy of our valuation allowances, we consider various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, forecasted future taxable income and potential tax planning strategies. These factors could reduce the value of the deferred tax assets, which could have a material effect on our profitability.. We rely significantly on information technology. Our businesses could be adversely impacted if our computer systems, or systems of our business partners and service providers, are disrupted or cease to operate effectively or if we or they are subject to a data security or privacy breach.. Our ability to manage and operate our business effectively depends significantly on information technology systems. The failure of any system to operate effectively or disruption in these systems could adversely impact our operations. The implementation of new systems also involves risks and uncertainties that could cause disruptions, delays or deficiencies that. 24. could adversely impact our operations. In addition, intended improvements may not be realized. These risks pertain to both our systems and those of our business partners and service providers.. Our reliance on information technology also pertains to security breaches involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information, as well as the ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations. There have been significant developments in the area of data privacy and cybersecurity and significant new laws are continuously being enacted and proposed around the world. In some instances, these laws and regulations could cause us to change the way we operate, including in a less efficient manner, in order to comply with local requirements. Additionally, the loss or ransoming of data and systems could disrupt our business, severely damage our reputation and our relationships with consumers, expose us to risks of litigation and liability, and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Volatility in securities markets, interest rates and other economic factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension costs and liabilities.. We have significant obligations under our defined benefit pension plans. The funded status of our pension plans is dependent on many factors, including returns on invested plan assets and the discount rate used to measure pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on plan assets, a lower discount rate or unfavorable changes in the applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of pension funding requirements, which could reduce cash available for our business.. Our operating performance also may be significantly impacted by the amount of expense recorded for our pension plans. Pension expense recorded throughout the year is calculated using actuarial valuations that incorporate assumptions and estimates about financial market, economic and demographic conditions. Differences between estimated and actual results give rise to gains and losses, which can be significant, that are recorded immediately in pension expense, generally in the fourth quarter of the year, which can create volatility in our operating results.. Our balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets and goodwill. A decline in the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge recorded in our operating results, which could be material.. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. Also, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of our goodwill or an other intangible asset was to exceed its fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value, with the impairment charge recognized as a noncash expense in our operating results. Adverse changes in future market conditions or weaker operating results compared to our expectations may impact our projected cash flows and estimates of weighted average cost of capital, which could result in a potentially material impairment charge if we are unable to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.. As of February 4, 2018, we had approximately $3.835 billion of goodwill and $3.727 billion of other identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet, which together represented 64% of our total assets. No impairment was recorded in 2017 based on our annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment tests.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws and Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult to acquire us and may reduce the market price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain certain provisions, including provisions requiring supermajority voting (80% of the outstanding voting power) to approve certain business combinations, permitting the Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the Board and authorizing the Board to issue shares of preferred stock without approval of our stockholders. These provisions could also have the effect of deterring changes of control.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. The existence of this provision may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by the Board."
