[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and the trading price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, including an increase in the size of our customers, and if we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service and customer satisfaction or adequately address competitive challenges, and our financial performance may be adversely affected.. Since our inception, our business has rapidly grown, which has resulted in large increases in our number of employees, expansion of our infrastructure, enhancement of our internal systems and other significant changes and additional complexities. Our revenues increased from $108.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015 to $150.2 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, and $194.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. While we intend to further expand our overall business, customer base, and number of employees, our recent growth rate is not necessarily indicative of the growth that we will achieve in the future. The growth in our business generally, our management of a growing workforce and customer base geographically-dispersed across the U.S. and the stress of such growth on our internal controls and systems require substantial management effort, infrastructure and operational capabilities. To support our growth, we must continue to improve our management resources and our operational and financial controls and systems, and these improvements may increase our expenses more than anticipated and result in a more complex business, and our failure to timely and effectively implement these improvements could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In. 16. Table of Contents. addition, our increased focus on selling to larger customers may result in greater uncertainty and variability in our business and sales results. We will also have to anticipate the necessary expansion of our relationship management, implementation, customer service and other personnel to support our growth and achieve high levels of customer service and satisfaction, particularly as we sell to larger customers that have heightened levels of complexity in their hardware, software and network infrastructure needs. Our success will depend on our ability to plan for and manage this growth effectively. If we fail to anticipate and manage our growth or are unable to provide high levels of system performance and customer service, our reputation, as well as our business, results of operations and financial condition, could be harmed.. If the market for our cloud-based digital banking solutions develops more slowly than we expect or changes in a way that we fail to anticipate, our sales would suffer and our operating results would be harmed.. Use of and reliance on cloud-based digital banking solutions is at an early stage, and we do not know whether RCFIs will continue to adopt digital banking solutions such as ours in the future, or whether the market will change in ways that we do not anticipate. Many RCFIs have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in legacy software, and these institutions may be reluctant or unwilling to convert from their existing systems to our solutions. For RCFIs, switching from one provider of digital banking solutions (or from an internally developed legacy system) to a new provider is a significant endeavor. Many potential customers believe switching providers involves too many potential disadvantages such as disruption of business operations, loss of accustomed functionality, and increased costs (including conversion and transition costs). Furthermore, some RCFIs may be reluctant or unwilling to use a cloud-based solution over concerns such as the security of their data and reliability of the delivery model. These concerns or other considerations may cause RCFIs to choose not to adopt cloud-based solutions such as ours or to adopt alternative solutions, either of which would harm our operating results. We attempt to overcome these concerns through value enhancing strategies such as a flexible integration process and continued investment in the enhanced functionality and features of our solutions. If RCFIs are unwilling to transition from their legacy systems, the demand for our digital banking solutions and related services could decline and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our future success also depends on our ability to sell additional solutions and enhanced solutions to our current customers. As we create new solutions and enhance our existing solutions to support new technologies and devices, these solutions and related services may not be attractive to customers. In addition, promoting and selling these new and enhanced solutions may require increasingly costly sales and marketing efforts, and if customers choose not to adopt these solutions, our business could suffer.. Our business could be adversely affected if our customers are not satisfied with our solutions, particularly as we introduce new products and solutions, or our systems and infrastructure fail to meet their needs.. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our customers and meet their needs. Our customers use a variety of network infrastructure, hardware and software, which typically increases in complexity the larger the customer is, and our solutions must support the specific configuration of our customers' existing systems, including in many cases the solutions of third-party providers. If our solutions do not currently support a customer's required data format or appropriately integrate with a customer's applications and infrastructure, then we must configure our solutions to do so, which could negatively affect the performance of our systems and increase our expenses and the time it takes to implement our solutions. Any failure of or delays in our systems could cause service interruptions or impaired system performance. Some of our customer agreements require us to issue credits for downtime in excess of certain thresholds, and in some instances give our customers the ability to terminate the agreements in the event of significant amounts of downtime, or if we experience other defects with our solutions. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to new and existing customers, cause us to lose customers, and lower renewal rates by existing customers, each of which could adversely affect our revenue and reputation. In addition, negative publicity resulting from issues related to our customer relationships, regardless of accuracy, may damage our business by adversely affecting our ability to attract new customers and maintain and expand our relationships with existing customers.. If the use of our solutions increases, or if our customers demand more advanced features from our solutions, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our solutions, and we also may need to expand our technical infrastructure at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. This would involve spending substantial amounts to purchase or lease data center capacity and equipment, upgrade our technology and infrastructure and introduce new or enhanced solutions. It takes a significant amount of time to plan, develop and test changes to our infrastructure, and we may not be able to accurately forecast demand or predict the results we will realize from such improvements. There are inherent risks associated with changing, upgrading, improving and expanding our technical infrastructure. Any failure of our solutions to operate effectively with future infrastructure and technologies could reduce the demand for our solutions, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. Also, any expansion of our infrastructure would likely require that we appropriately scale our internal business systems and services organization, including implementation and customer support services, to serve our growing customer. 17. Table of Contents. base. If we are unable to respond to these changes or fully and effectively implement them in a cost-effective and timely manner, our service may become ineffective, we may lose customers, and our operating results may be negatively impacted.. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and pricing pressure, new technologies or other competitive dynamics could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We currently compete with providers of technology and services in the financial services industry, including point system vendors and core processing vendors, as well as systems internally-developed by RCFIs. We have a number of point system competitors, including NCR Corporation, First Data Corporation, D3 Technology, Inc., and Alkami Technology, Inc. in the online, consumer and small business banking space and Finastra (formerly D+H Corporation), ACI Worldwide, Inc., FIS and Bottomline Technologies (de), Inc. in the commercial banking space. We also compete with core processing vendors that provide systems and services such as Fiserv, Inc., Jack Henry and Associates, Inc. and FIS. Many of our competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, may devote greater resources to the promotion, sale and support of their systems than we can, have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. In addition, many of our competitors expend more funds on research and development.. We may also face competition from new companies entering our markets, which may include large established businesses that decide to develop, market or resell digital banking solutions, acquire one of our competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors. In addition, new companies entering our markets may choose to offer digital banking applications at little or no additional cost to the customer by bundling them with their existing applications, including adjacent banking technologies and core processing software. New entrants to the market might also include non-banking providers of payment solutions and other technologies. Competition from these new entrants may make our business more difficult and adversely affect our results.. If we are unable to compete in this environment, sales and renewals of our solutions could decline and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. With the introduction of new technologies and potential new entrants into the digital banking solutions market, we expect competition to intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and achieve profitability. In addition, we may face increased competition in our existing markets as we enter new sections of the market with larger customers and new products and services. Our industry has also experienced recent consolidation which we believe may continue. Any further consolidation our industry experiences could lead to increased competition and result in pricing pressure or loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, limit our growth prospects or reduce our revenues.. If we are unable to effectively integrate our solutions with other systems used by our customers and prospective customers, including if we are forced to discontinue integration due to security or quality concerns with a third-party system, or if there are performance issues with such third-party systems, our solutions will not operate effectively and our operations will be adversely affected.. The functionality of our solutions depends on our ability to integrate with other third-party systems used by our customers, including core processing software. Certain providers of these third-party systems also offer solutions that are competitive with our solutions and may have an advantage over us with customers using their software by having better ability to integrate with their software and by being able to bundle their competitive products with other applications used by our customers and prospective customers at favorable pricing. We do not have formal arrangements with many of these third-party providers regarding our access to their application program interfaces to enable these customer integrations.. Our business may be harmed if any of our third-party providers:. • changes the features or functionality of its applications and platforms in a manner adverse to us;. • discontinues or limits our solutions' access to its systems;. • suffers a security incident or other incident that requires us to discontinue integration with its system;. • terminates or does not allow us to renew or replace our existing contractual relationships on the same or better terms;. • modifies its terms of service or other policies, including fees charged to, or other restrictions on, us or our customers;. • establishes more favorable relationships with one or more of our competitors, or acquire one or more of our competitors and offer competing services; or. • otherwise has or develops its own competitive offerings.. 18. Table of Contents. Such changes could limit or prevent us from integrating our solutions with these third-party systems, which could impair the functionality of our solutions, prohibit the use of our solutions or limit our ability to sell our solutions to customers, each of which could harm our business. If we are unable to integrate with such third-party software as a result of changes to or restricted access to the software by such third parties during the terms of existing agreements with customers using such third-party software, we may not be able to meet our contractual obligations to customers, which may result in disputes with customers and harm to our business. In addition, if any third-party software providers experience an outage, our solutions integrated with such software will not function properly or at all, and our customers may be dissatisfied with our solutions. If the software of such third-party providers has performance or other problems, such issues may reflect poorly on us and the adoption and renewal of our solutions and our business may be harmed. Although our customers may be able to switch to alternative technologies if a provider's services were unreliable or if a provider was to limit such customer's access and utilization of its data or the provider's functionality, our business could nevertheless be harmed due to the risk that our customers could reduce their use of our solutions.. Our customers are highly regulated and subject to a number of challenges and risks. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to us as a technology provider to financial institutions and financial technology companies and to enable our customers to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to them could adversely affect our business and results of operations, increase costs and impose constraints on the way we conduct our business.. Our customers and prospective customers are highly regulated and may be required to comply with stringent regulations in connection with subscribing to and implementing our solutions. As a provider of technology to RCFIs, we are examined on a periodic basis by various regulatory agencies and required to review certain of our suppliers and partners. The examination handbook and other guidance issued by the FFIEC govern the examination of our operations and include a review of our systems and data center and technical infrastructure, management, financial condition, development activities and our support and delivery capabilities. If deficiencies are identified, customers may choose to terminate or reduce their relationships with us. In addition, while much of our operations are not directly subject to the same regulations applicable to RCFIs, we are generally obligated to our customers to provide software solutions and maintain internal systems and processes that comply with federal and state regulations applicable to them. In particular, as a result of obligations under our customer agreements, we are required to comply with certain provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act related to the privacy of consumer information and may be subject to other privacy and data security laws because of the solutions we provide. In addition, numerous regulations have been proposed and are still being written to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, including requirements for enhanced due diligence of the internal systems and processes of companies like ours by their financial institution customers. In general, larger financial institutions are subject to more stringent regulations and as a result, as we sell our solutions to larger financial institutions, we will become obligated to meet more stringent regulatory standards, including more in-depth audits. Still further, President Donald Trump and the Congressional majority have indicated that the Dodd-Frank Act will be under further scrutiny and some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act rules promulgated thereunder may be revised, repealed, or amended. If we have to make changes to our internal processes and solutions as a result of these regulatory changes, we could be required to invest substantial additional time and funds and divert time and resources from other corporate purposes to remedy any identified deficiency.. This evolving, complex and often unpredictable regulatory environment could result in our failure to provide compliant solutions, which could result in customers' not purchasing our solutions or terminating their agreements with us or the imposition of fines or other liabilities for which we may be responsible. In addition, federal, state and/or foreign agencies may attempt to further regulate our activities in the future. For example, Congress could enact legislation to regulate providers of electronic commerce services as consumer financial services providers or under another regulatory framework. If enacted or deemed applicable to us, such laws, rules or regulations could be imposed on our activities or our business thereby rendering our business or operations more costly, burdensome, less efficient or impossible, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. If our or our customers' security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or cease their use of our solutions, our reputation may be harmed, and we may incur significant liabilities.. Our operations involve access to and transmission of proprietary information and data and transaction and account details of our customers and their account holders and end users. Our security measures and the security measures of our customers may not be sufficient to prevent our systems from being compromised as a result of third-party action, the error or intentional misconduct of employees, customers or their account holders and end users, malfeasance or stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials. Security incidents can result in unauthorized access to, loss of or unauthorized disclosure of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other possible liabilities, as well as negative publicity, which could damage our reputation, impair our sales and harm our business. Cyber-attacks, account take-over attacks, fraudulent representations and other malicious Internet-based activity continue to increase and financial institutions and financial technology companies, their. 19. Table of Contents. account holders and end users, and digital banking providers are often targets of such attacks. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information to gain access to our confidential or proprietary information or the data of our customers and their account holders and end users. A party who is able to compromise the security of our facilities could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We may be unable to anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems because they change frequently and generally are not detected until after an incident has occurred. As we increase our customer base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems or gain unauthorized access to the data of our customers and their account holders and end users. A failure or inability to meet our customers' expectations with respect to security and confidentiality could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain customers and attract new business.. Federal and state regulations may require us to notify customers and their account holders and end users of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. Security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our customers or by us may lead to public disclosures and widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their subscriptions or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. In addition, some of our customers contractually require notification of any data security compromise and include representations and warranties that our solutions comply with certain regulations related to data security and privacy. Although our customer agreements typically include limitations on our potential liability, there can be no assurance that such limitations of liability would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims, or that our insurers will not deny or attempt to deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more claims against us, the inadequacy of or denial of coverage under our insurance policies, litigation to pursue claims under our policies or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. In addition to the other risks described in this report, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following:. • the addition or loss of customers, including through acquisitions, consolidations or failures;. • the amount of use of our solutions in a period and the amount of any associated revenues and expenses;. • budgeting cycles of our customers and changes in spending on solutions by our current or prospective customers;. • seasonal variations in sales of our solutions, which may be lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year;. • changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, changes to pricing or the introduction of new products and services that limit demand for our solutions or cause customers to delay purchasing decisions;. • the amount and timing of cash collections from our customers;. • long or delayed implementation times for new customers, including larger customers, or other changes in the levels of customer support we provide;. • the timing of customer payments and payment defaults by customers, including any buyouts by customers of the remaining term of their contracts with us in a lump sum payment that we would have otherwise recognized over the term of those contracts;. • the amount and timing of our operating costs and capital expenditures;. 20. Table of Contents. • changes in tax rules or the impact of new accounting pronouncements, including the effects of our adoption of newly issued accounting standards regarding revenue recognition;. • general economic conditions that may adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to purchase solutions, delay a prospective customer's purchasing decision, reduce our revenues from customers or affect renewal rates;. • unexpected expenses such as those related to litigation or other disputes;. • the timing of stock awards to employees and related adverse financial statement impact of having to expense those stock awards over their vesting schedules; and. • the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, hiring, training and integrating new employees, many of whom we hire in advance of anticipated needs.. Moreover, our stock price might be based on expectations of investors or securities analysts of future performance that are inconsistent with our actual growth opportunities or that we might fail to meet and, if our revenues or operating results fall below expectations, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.. We have a history of losses, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future.. We have incurred losses from operations in each period since our inception in 2005, except for 2010 when we recognized a gain on the sale of a subsidiary. We incurred net losses of $26.2 million, $36.4 million and $25.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $152.1 million. These losses and accumulated deficit reflect the substantial investments we have made to develop our solutions and acquire customers. As we seek to continue to grow our number of customers, we expect to incur significant sales, marketing, implementation and other related expenses. Our ability to achieve or sustain profitability will depend on our obtaining sufficient scale and productivity so that the cost of adding and supporting new customers does not adversely impact our margins. We also expect to make other significant expenditures to develop and expand our solutions and our business, including continuing to increase our marketing, services and sales operations and continuing our significant investment in research and development and our technical infrastructure. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to focus on adding new customers, and we cannot predict whether or when we will achieve or sustain profitability. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenues enough to offset our higher operating expenses. In addition, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. These increased expenditures will make it harder for us to achieve and maintain profitability. While our revenues have grown in recent periods, such growth may not be sustainable, and our revenues could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We also may incur additional losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to litigation and other unforeseen reasons and the risks described in this report. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability in the future, nor that, if we do become profitable, we will be able to sustain profitability. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, our customers may lose confidence in us and slow or cease their purchases of our solutions and we may be unable to attract new customers, which would adversely impact our operating results.. Our sales cycle can be unpredictable, time-consuming and costly, which could harm our business and operating results.. Our sales process involves educating prospective customers and existing customers about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our solutions. Prospective customers, especially larger financial institutions, often undertake a prolonged evaluation process, which typically involves not only our solutions, but also those of our competitors and lasts from six to nine months or longer. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales and marketing efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. It is also difficult to predict the level and timing of sales opportunities that come from our referral partners.. Events affecting our customers' businesses may occur during the sales cycle that could affect the size or timing of a purchase, contributing to more unpredictability in our business and operating results. As a result of these factors, we may face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in the future.. We do not have an adequate history with our subscription or pricing models to accurately predict the long-term rate of customer subscription renewals or adoption, or the impact these renewals and adoption, or any customer terminations, will have on our revenues or operating results.. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices for our solutions. As the markets for our existing solutions develop, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. Moreover, large or influential RCFIs may demand more favorable pricing or other contract terms,. 21. Table of Contents. including termination rights. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices or accept other unfavorable contract terms, each of which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin, profitability, financial position and cash flow.. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of the initial subscription term, and our customers may renew for fewer solutions or on different pricing terms, if at all. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' satisfaction with our pricing or our solutions or their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. Additionally, certain agreements may include termination rights allowing customers to terminate their customer agreements in the event of, among other things, defects with our solutions, changes in our solution, breach by us of our obligations, requirements from regulatory authorities or a change in control of our company. If our customers terminate or do not renew their subscriptions for our solutions on similar pricing terms, our revenues may decline and our business could suffer. As we create new solutions or enhance our existing solutions to support new technologies and devices, our pricing of these solutions and related services may be unattractive to customers or fail to cover our costs.. Defects or errors in our solutions could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, impair our ability to sell our solutions and subject us to substantial liability.. Our solutions are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. Despite extensive testing, from time-to-time we have discovered defects or errors in our solutions. In addition, due to changes in regulatory requirements relating to our customers or to technology providers to financial institutions and financial technology companies like us, we may discover deficiencies in our software processes related to those requirements. Material performance problems or defects in our solutions might arise in the future.. Any such errors, defects, other performance problems or disruptions in service to provide bug fixes or upgrades, whether in connection with day-to-day operations or otherwise, could be costly for us to remedy, damage our customers' businesses and harm our reputation. In addition, if we have any such errors, defects or other performance problems, our customers could seek to terminate their agreements, elect not to renew their subscriptions, delay or withhold payment or make claims against us. Any of these actions could result in lost business, increased insurance costs, difficulty in collecting our accounts receivable, costly litigation and adverse publicity. Such errors, defects or other problems could also result in reduced sales or a loss of, or delay in, the market acceptance of our solutions.. Moreover, software development is time-consuming, expensive, complex and requires regular maintenance. Unforeseen difficulties can arise. If we do not complete our periodic maintenance according to schedule or if customers are otherwise dissatisfied with the frequency and/or duration of our maintenance services, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us or cause us to issue credits, make refunds or pay penalties. Because our solutions are often customized and deployed on a customer-by-customer basis, rather than through a multi-tenant SaaS method of distribution, applying bug fixes, upgrades or other maintenance services may require updating each instance of our software, which could be time consuming and cause us to incur significant expense. We might also encounter technical obstacles, and it is possible that we discover problems that prevent our solutions from operating properly. If our solutions do not function reliably or fail to achieve customer expectations in terms of performance, customers could seek to cancel their agreements with us and assert liability claims against us, which could damage our reputation, impair our ability to attract or maintain customers and harm our results of operations.. Failures or reduced accessibility of third-party hardware and software on which we rely could impair the delivery of our solutions and adversely affect our business.. We rely on hardware that we purchase or lease and software that we develop or license from, or that is hosted by third parties, to offer our solutions. In addition, we obtain licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our solutions. These licenses might not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. While we are not substantially dependent upon any third-party hardware or software, the loss of the right to use all or a significant portion of our third-party hardware or software required for the development, maintenance and delivery of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until we develop or identify, obtain and integrate equivalent technology, which could harm our business.. Any errors or defects in the hardware or software we use could result in errors, interruptions or a failure of our solutions. Although we believe that there are alternatives, any significant interruption in the availability of all or a significant portion of such hardware or software could have an adverse impact on our business unless and until we can replace the functionality provided by these products at a similar cost. Furthermore, this hardware and software may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to use all or a significant portion of this hardware or software could limit access to our solutions. Additionally, we rely upon third parties' abilities to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We may be unable. 22. Table of Contents. to effect changes to such third-party technologies, which may prevent us from rapidly responding to evolving customer requirements. We also may be unable to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software currently offered in conjunction with our solutions in the event that such software becomes obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our solutions or is otherwise not adequately maintained or updated.. We depend on data centers operated by third parties and third-party Internet hosting providers, and any disruption in the operation of these facilities or access to the Internet could adversely affect our business.. We currently serve our RCFI customers primarily from two third-party data center hosting facilities located in Austin, Texas and Carrollton, Texas and certain of our solutions are hosted by cloud-based providers, including Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure. The owners and operators of these current and future facilities and cloud-based hosting services do not guarantee that our customers' access to our solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. We may experience website disruptions, outages and other performance problems. These problems may be caused by a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, viruses, security attacks, fraud, spikes in customer usage and denial of service issues. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. We do not control the operation of these data center facilities and cloud-based services, and such facilities and services are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, power loss, hardware failures, telecommunications failures, fires, wars, terrorist attacks, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes or similar catastrophic events. They also could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or terminate our hosting arrangement or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions, cause system interruptions, prevent our customers' account holders or end users from accessing their accounts or services online, reputational harm and loss of critical data, prevent us from supporting our solutions or cause us to incur additional expense in arranging for new facilities, services and support.. We also depend on third-party Internet-hosting providers and continuous and uninterrupted access to the Internet through third-party bandwidth providers to operate our business. If we lose the services of one or more of our Internet-hosting or bandwidth providers for any reason or if their services are disrupted, for example due to viruses or denial of service or other attacks on their systems, or due to human error, intentional bad acts, power loss, hardware failures, telecommunications failures, fires, wars, terrorist attacks, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes or similar catastrophic events, we could experience disruption in our ability to offer our solutions and adverse perception of our solutions' reliability, or we could be required to retain the services of replacement providers, which could increase our operating costs and harm our business and reputation.. We derive substantially all of our revenues from customers in the financial services industry, and any downturn or consolidation in the financial services industry, or unfavorable economic conditions affecting regions in which a significant portion of our customers are concentrated, could harm our business.. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from RCFIs. RCFIs have experienced significant pressure in recent years due to economic uncertainty, liquidity concerns and increased regulation. In recent years, many RCFIs have failed, merged or been acquired. Failures and consolidations are likely to continue, and there are very few new RCFIs being created. Further, if our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities such as financial institutions that have in-house developed digital banking solutions or that are not our customers or use fewer of our solutions, our customers may discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our solutions. It is also possible that the larger RCFIs that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to replace some or all of our solutions. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, any downturn in the financial services industry or unfavorable economic conditions affecting the regions in which our customers are concentrated may cause our customers to reduce their spending on digital banking solutions, seek to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us or fail. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from RCFIs in states, in particular Texas, whose economies are substantially dependent upon the energy and natural resources market, in particular oil and gas exploration and production. Since 2014, the price of oil and gas has remained low resulting in economic uncertainty in Texas and such other states. Should the price of oil and gas decline further and/or remain at the current low price for an extended period, the general economic conditions in Texas and such other states could be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our RCFI customers, and accordingly our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 23. Table of Contents. Because we recognize revenues from our solutions over the terms of our customer agreements, the impact of changes in the subscriptions for our solutions will not be immediately reflected in our operating results, and rapid growth in our customer base may adversely affect our operating results in the short term since we expense a substantial portion of implementation costs as incurred.. We generally recognize revenues monthly over the terms of our customer agreements. The initial term of our digital banking customer agreements averages over five years, although it varies by customer. As a result, the substantial majority of the revenues we report in each quarter are related to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a change in the level of new customer agreements or implementations in any quarter may have a small impact on our revenues in that quarter but will affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions, or changes in our rate of renewals may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period.. Additionally, we recognize our expenses over varying periods based on the nature of the expense. In particular, we recognize a substantial portion of implementation expenses as incurred even though we recognize the related revenues over extended periods. As a result, we may report poor operating results in periods in which we are incurring higher implementation expenses related to revenues that we will recognize in future periods, including implementations for larger customers that have heightened levels of complexity in their hardware, software and network infrastructure needs. Alternatively, we may report better operating results in periods due to lower implementation expenses, but such lower expenses may be indicative of slower revenue growth in future periods. As a result, our expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues and changes in our business generally may not be immediately reflected in our results of operations.. As the number, size, type and complexity of customers that we serve increase and change, we may encounter implementation challenges, and we may have to delay revenue recognition for some complex engagements, which would harm our business and operating results.. We may face unexpected implementation challenges related to the complexity of our customers' implementation and integration requirements, particularly implementations for larger customers that have heightened levels of complexity in their hardware, software and network infrastructure needs. Our implementation expenses increase when customers have unexpected data, hardware or software technology challenges, or complex or unanticipated business or regulatory requirements. In addition, our customers typically require complex acceptance testing related to the implementation of our solutions. Implementation delays may also require us to delay revenue recognition under the related customer agreement longer than expected. Further, because we do not fully control our customers' implementation schedules, if our customers do not allocate the internal resources necessary to meet implementation timelines or if there are unanticipated implementation delays or difficulties, our revenue recognition may be delayed. Losses of account holders or end users or any difficulties or delays in implementation processes could cause customers to delay or forgo future purchases of our solutions, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Shifts over time in the number of account holders and registered users of our solutions, their use of our solutions and our customers' implementation and customer support needs could negatively affect our profit margins.. Our profit margins can vary depending on numerous factors, including the scope and complexity of our implementation efforts, the number of account holders and registered users on our solutions, the frequency and volume of their use of our solutions and the level of customer support services required by our customers. For example, our services offerings typically have a much higher cost of revenues than subscriptions to our solutions, so any increase in sales of services as a proportion of our subscriptions would have an adverse effect on our overall gross margin and operating results. If we are unable to increase the number of registered users and the number of transactions they perform on our solutions, the types of customers that purchase our solutions changes, or the mix of solutions purchased by our customers changes, our profit margins could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected.. If we fail to provide effective customer training on our solutions and high-quality customer support, our business and reputation would suffer.. Effective customer training on our solutions and high-quality, ongoing customer support are important to the successful marketing and sale of our solutions and for the renewal of existing customer agreements. Providing this training and support requires that our customer training and support personnel have financial services knowledge and expertise, making it difficult for us to hire qualified personnel and scale our training and support operations. The demand on our customer support organization will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers, and such increased support could require us to devote significant development services and support personnel, which could strain our team and infrastructure and reduce our profit margins. If we do not help our customers quickly resolve any post-implementation issues and provide effective ongoing. 24. Table of Contents. customer support, our ability to sell additional solutions to existing and future customers could suffer and our reputation would be harmed.. If we fail to respond to evolving technological requirements or introduce adequate enhancements and new features, our solutions could become obsolete or less competitive.. The market for our solutions is characterized by rapid technological advancements, changes in customer requirements and technologies, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and changing regulatory requirements. The life cycles of our solutions are difficult to estimate. Rapid technological changes and the introduction of new products and enhancements by new or existing competitors or large financial institutions could undermine our current market position. Other means of digital banking may be developed or adopted in the future, and our solutions may not be compatible with these new technologies. In addition, the technological needs of, and services provided by, customers may change if they or their competitors offer new services to account holders and end users. Maintaining adequate research and development resources to meet the demands of the market is essential. The process of developing new technologies and solutions is complex and expensive. The introduction of new solutions by our competitors, the market acceptance of competitive solutions based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new technologies or solutions in the broader financial services and financial technology industry could render our solutions obsolete or less effective.. The success of any enhanced or new solution depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate testing and market release and acceptance of the solution. Any new solutions that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If we are unable to anticipate customer requirements or work with our customers successfully on implementing new solutions or features in a timely manner or enhance our existing solutions to meet our customers' requirements, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. If we fail to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities and teams, including through partner relationships, we may not be able to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions.. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend on our ability to expand our sales and marketing organizations and their abilities to obtain new customers and sell additional solutions and services to existing customers. We believe there is significant competition for direct sales professionals with the skills and knowledge that we require, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future. Our ability to achieve significant future revenue growth will depend on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they become fully productive and may not become as productive as quickly as we anticipate. As a result, the cost of hiring and carrying new representatives cannot be offset by the revenues they produce for a significant period of time. Our growth prospects will be harmed if our efforts to expand, train and retain our direct sales team do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenues. Additionally, if we fail to sufficiently invest in our marketing programs or they are unsuccessful in creating market awareness of our company and solutions, our business may be harmed and our sales opportunities limited.. In addition to our direct sales team, we also extend our sales distribution through formal and informal relationships with referral partners. While we are not substantially dependent upon referrals from any partner, our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend upon continued referrals from our partners and growth of the network of our referral partners. These partners are under no contractual obligation to continue to refer business to us, nor do these partners have exclusive relationships with us and may choose to instead refer potential customers to our competitors. We cannot be certain that these partners will prioritize or provide adequate resources for promoting our solutions or that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with referral partners. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties, including our partners, to favor their solutions or prevent or reduce subscriptions to our solutions either by disrupting our relationship with existing customers or limiting our ability to win new customers. Establishing and retaining qualified partners and training them with respect to our solutions requires significant time and resources. If we are unable to devote sufficient time and resources to establish and train these partners, or if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, we may lose sales opportunities and our revenues could suffer.. We rely on our management team and other key employees, and the loss of one or more key employees could harm our business.. Our success and future growth depend upon the continued services of our management team, in particular our Chief Executive Officer, and other key employees, including in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We also are dependent on the continued service of our existing development professionals because of the complexity of our solutions, including complexity arising as a result of the. 25. Table of Contents. regulatory requirements that are applicable to our customers and the pace of technology changes impacting our customers and their account holders and end users. We may terminate any employee's employment at any time, with or without cause, and any employee may resign at any time, with or without cause; however, our employment agreements with our named executive officers provide for the payment of severance under certain circumstances. We have also entered into employment agreements with our other executive officers which provide for the payment of severance under similar circumstances as in our named executive officers' employment agreements. The loss of one or more of our key employees could harm our business.. Because competition for key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly-skilled employees we need to support our operations and future growth.. Competition for executive officers, software developers and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for executive officers, for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals and knowledgeable customer support professionals, and we may not be successful in attracting the professionals we need. Our research and development organization is principally located in Austin, Texas, where competition for software development and engineering personnel is intense. We may have difficulty hiring and retaining suitably skilled personnel or expanding our research and development organization. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the actual and potential value of the equity awards they receive as part of their overall compensation. Thus, if the perceived value or future value of our stock declines, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees may be adversely affected. In addition, many of our existing employees may exercise vested options or vest in outstanding restricted stock units and sell our stock, which may make it more difficult for us to retain key employees. If we fail to attract and retain new employees, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed.. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations related to the Internet and mobile usage could adversely affect our business and results of operations, increase costs and impose constraints on the way we conduct our business.. We and our customers are subject to laws and regulations applicable to doing business over the Internet and through the use of mobile devices. It is often not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes apply to the Internet and mobile usage, as these laws have in some cases failed to keep pace with technological change. Laws governing the Internet could also impact our business or the business of our customers. For instance, existing and future regulations on taxing Internet use, pricing, characterizing the types and quality of services and products or restricting the exchange of information over the Internet or mobile devices could result in reduced growth of our business, a general decline in the use of the Internet by financial service institutions, financial technology companies, or their account holders or end users, diminished viability of our solutions and could significantly restrict our customers' ability to use our solutions. Changing federal and state laws and regulations, industry standards and industry self-regulation regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain data may have similar effects on our and our customers' businesses. Any such constraint on the growth in Internet and mobile usage could decrease its acceptance as a medium of communication and commerce or result in increased adoption of new modes of communication and commerce that may not be supported by our solutions. Any such adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our operating results and our business.. Legislation relating to consumer privacy may affect our ability to collect data that we use in providing our customers' account holder and end user information, which, among other things, could negatively affect our ability to satisfy our customers' needs.. We collect and store personal and identifying information regarding our customers' account holders and end users to enable certain functionality of our solutions and provide our customers with data about their account holders and end users. The enactment of new or amended legislation or industry regulations pertaining to consumer or private sector privacy issues could have a material adverse impact on our collection, storage and sharing of such information. Legislation or industry regulations regarding consumer or private sector privacy issues could place restrictions upon the collection, sharing and use of information that is currently legally available, which could materially increase our cost of collecting some data. These types of legislation or industry regulations could also prohibit us from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' requirements and our profitability and cash flow targets. While every state, the District of Columbia and the FFIEC have enacted data breach notification laws or requirements, there is no such federal law generally applicable to our businesses. These legislative measures impose strict requirements on reporting time frames for providing notice, as well as the contents of such notices. The costs of compliance with, the inability to determine whether a data breach has occurred within the time frame provided by, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations may lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance with such privacy laws. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our solutions.. 26. Table of Contents. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If the collecting, storing and processing of personal information were to be curtailed, our solutions would be less effective, which may reduce demand for our solutions and adversely affect our business.. Any use of our solutions by our customers in violation of regulatory requirements could damage our reputation and subject us to additional liability.. If our customers or their account holders or end users use our digital banking solutions in violation of regulatory requirements and applicable laws, we could suffer damage to our reputation and could become subject to claims. We rely on contractual obligations made to us by our customers that their use and their account holders' and end users' use of our solutions will comply with applicable laws. However, we do not audit our customers or their account holders or end users to confirm compliance. We may become subject to or involved with claims for violations by our customers or their account holders or end users of applicable laws in connection with their use of our solutions. Even if claims asserted against us do not result in liability, we may incur costs in investigating and defending against such claims. If we are found liable in connection with our customers' or their account holders' or end users' activities, we could incur liabilities and be required to redesign our solutions or otherwise expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions and to avoid future liability.. Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend.. We may become subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes or employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation might result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and resources, which might seriously harm our business, overall financial condition and operating results. Insurance might not cover such claims, might not provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby reducing our operating results and leading analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance, which could reduce the trading price of our stock.. Lawsuits by third parties against us and our customers for alleged infringement of the third parties' proprietary rights or for other intellectual property related claims could result in significant expenses and harm our operating results.. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in our industry are often required to defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Furthermore, our customer agreements typically require us to indemnify our customers against liabilities incurred in connection with claims alleging our solutions infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party. From time to time, we have been involved in disputes related to patent and other intellectual property rights of third parties, none of which have resulted in material liabilities. We expect these types of disputes to continue to arise in the future. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant disputes between us and our customers as to the applicability or scope of our indemnification obligations to them. There can be no assurances that any existing limitations of liability provisions in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate, or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. If such claims are successful, or if we are required to indemnify or defend our customers from these or other claims, these matters could be disruptive to our business and management and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Furthermore, our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. As a result, our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. We have a very limited patent portfolio, which will likely prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims, and our competitors and others may now and in the future have significantly larger patent portfolios than we have. From time to time, we have received and may continue to receive threatening letters or notices or in the future may be the subject of claims that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. The risk of patent litigation has been amplified by the increase in the number of non-practicing patent asserting entities, or patent trolls. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us or our customers whom we indemnify, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our solutions or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results.. The frequency of these types of claims may increase as we continue to add new customers and as a result of our being a public company.. 27. Table of Contents. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected.. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property, which may require us to incur significant costs. We have developed much of our intellectual property internally, and we rely on a combination of confidentiality obligations in contracts, patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and other contractual restrictions to establish and protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In particular, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have business relationships in which they will have access to our confidential information. We also rely upon licenses to intellectual property from third parties. No assurance can be given that these agreements or other steps we take to protect our intellectual property or the third-party intellectual property used in our solutions will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our solutions and our confidential and proprietary information. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized uses of our intellectual property.. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy our solutions and use information that we regard as proprietary to create solutions and services that compete with ours. Third parties may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent to our solutions. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our solutions may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions.. In some cases, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to protect our trade secrets. Litigation could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights and exposing us to significant damages or injunctions. Our inability to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our management's attention and resources, could delay sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting less-advanced or more-costly technologies into our solutions or harm our reputation. In addition, we may be required to license additional intellectual property from third parties to develop and market new solutions, and we cannot assure you that we could license that intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. We cannot be certain that any patents will be issued with respect to our current or future patent applications.. As of December 31, 2017, we had seven U.S. patent applications pending and two issued U.S. patents. We do not know whether our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow the scope of our claims. To the extent that our pending patent applications or any portion of such applications proceed to issuance as a patent, any such future patent may be opposed, contested, circumvented, designed around by a third party or found to be invalid or unenforceable. In addition, our existing and any future issued patents may be opposed, contested, circumvented, designed around by a third party or found to be invalid or unenforceable. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property, and much of our technology is not covered by any patent or patent application.. We use \"open source\" software in our solutions, which may restrict how we use or distribute our solutions, require that we release the source code of certain software subject to open source licenses or subject us to litigation or other actions that could adversely affect our business.. We currently use in our solutions, and may use in the future, software that is licensed under \"open source,\" \"free\" or other similar licenses where the licensed software is made available to the general public on an \"as-is\" basis under the terms of a specific non-negotiable license. Some open source software licenses require that software subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works based on the open source code be licensed in source code form under the same open source licenses. Although we monitor our use of open source software, we cannot assure you that all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our solutions, that our programmers have not incorporated open source software into our solutions, or that they will not do so in the future. In addition, some of our products may incorporate third-party software under commercial licenses. We cannot be certain whether such third-party software incorporates open source software without our knowledge. In the past, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims alleging noncompliance with open source license terms or infringement or misappropriation of proprietary software. Therefore, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms or infringement or misappropriation of proprietary software. Because few courts have interpreted open source licenses, the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is subject to some uncertainty. There is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market or provide our solutions. As a result of using open source software subject to such licenses, we could be required to release our proprietary source code,. 28. Table of Contents. pay damages, re-engineer our products, limit or discontinue sales or take other remedial action, any of which could adversely affect our business.. The market data and forecasts included in this report may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the markets in which we compete achieve the forecasted growth, we cannot assure you that our business will grow at similar rates, or at all.. The market data and forecasts included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 and our previous filings with the SEC, including the data and forecasts published by BauerFinancial, among others, and our internal estimates and research are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. If the forecasts of market growth or anticipated spending prove to be inaccurate, our business and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Even if the forecasted growth occurs, our business may not grow at a similar rate, or at all. Our future growth is subject to many factors, including our ability to successfully implement our business strategy, which itself is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Such reports speak as of their respective publication dates and the opinions expressed in such reports are subject to change. Accordingly, potential investors in our common stock are urged not to put undue reliance on such forecasts and market data.. Uncertain or weakened economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations.. Our overall performance depends on economic conditions, which may remain challenging or uncertain for the foreseeable future. Financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or our industry may adversely affect us. Domestic and international economies have been impacted by threatened sovereign defaults and ratings downgrades, falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, threats to major multinational companies, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty. These conditions affect the rate of technology spending and could adversely affect our customers' ability or willingness to purchase our solutions, delay prospective customers' purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions or affect renewal rates, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the economic recovery or any subsequent economic slowdown in the U.S. or in our industry.. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $168.1 million of U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards. Utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. Our loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2026. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone an ownership change. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in equity ownership by value over a 3-year period. We have undergone one or more ownership changes as a result of prior financings, and may have undergone an ownership change as a result of our Initial Public Offering, or our IPO, in March 2014 and/or our follow-on offerings in March 2015 and September 2015, and any such change in ownership and the corresponding annual limitation may prevent us from using our current net operating losses prior to their expiration. Future ownership changes or future regulatory changes could further limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. To the extent we are not able to offset our future income against our net operating loss carryforwards, this would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows if we attain profitability.. Our business may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability for past sales. Any successful action by state, local or other authorities to collect additional or past sales tax could adversely harm our business.. We file sales tax returns in certain states within the U.S. as required by law and certain customer contracts for a portion of the solutions that we provide. Our sales tax liabilities with respect to sales and use taxes in various states and local jurisdictions were $0.3 million as of December 31, 2017. From time to time we face sales tax audits, and we will likely continue to do so in the future, and our liability for these taxes could exceed our estimates as state tax authorities could still assert that we are obligated to collect additional amounts as taxes from our customers and remit those taxes to those authorities.. We do not collect sales or other similar taxes in other states and many of the states do not apply sales or similar taxes to certain of our solutions. State and local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of sales taxes to our solutions in various jurisdictions is unclear. We review these rules and regulations periodically and, when we believe we are subject to sales and use taxes in a particular state, we may voluntarily engage state tax authorities to determine how to comply with their rules and regulations. A successful assertion by one or more states, including states for which we have not accrued tax liability, requiring us to collect sales or other taxes with respect to sales of our solutions or. 29. Table of Contents. customer support could result in substantial tax liabilities for past transactions, including interest and penalties, discourage customers from purchasing our solutions or otherwise harm our business and operating results.. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations.. Financial accounting standards may change or their interpretation may change. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change becomes effective. Changes to existing rules or the re-examining of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Accounting for revenues from sales of our solutions is particularly complex, is often the subject of intense scrutiny by the SEC and will evolve as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, continues to consider applicable accounting standards in this area. In particular, in order to be able to comply with the requirements of the new revenue recognition standard under Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, 606 beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we have been updating and enhancing our internal accounting systems and processes and our internal controls over financial reporting. This has required, and will continue to require, additional investments by us, and may require incremental resources and system configurations that could increase our operating costs in future periods. Further, as companies begin adopting ASC 606, its interpretation and application will likely evolve over time which could adversely impact our current and historical financial results and require further changes to our disclosures, internal systems and processes and internal controls.. We may acquire or invest in companies, or pursue business partnerships, which may divert our management's attention and present additional risks, and we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions or investments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have completed, and may in the future evaluate and consider, potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our solutions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. We may not be able to find and identify desirable additional acquisition targets, we may incorrectly estimate the value of an acquisition target, and we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any particular target. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close.. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our past acquisitions or any additional businesses we acquire due to a number of factors, including:. • our inability to integrate, manage or benefit from acquired operations, technologies or services;. • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition, including the assumption of liabilities or commitments of the acquired business that were not disclosed to us or that exceeded our estimates;. • difficulty integrating the accounting systems, operations and personnel of the acquired business;. • difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy solutions and hosting infrastructure of the acquired business;. • uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience or in which competitors have stronger market positions;. • difficulty converting the customers of the acquired business to our solutions and contract terms, including disparities in the revenues, licensing, support or professional services model of the acquired company;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • adverse effects to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition;. • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business;. • the use of a substantial portion of our cash that we may need to operate our business and which may limit our operational flexibility and ability to pursue additional strategic transactions;. • the issuance of additional equity securities that would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders;. 30. Table of Contents. • incurrence of debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay;. • incurrence of large charges or substantial liabilities;. • our inability to apply and maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies with respect to the acquired businesses;. • difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business culture; and. • become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges.. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We may not be able to secure sufficient additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs.. We may require additional capital in the future to pursue business opportunities or acquisitions or respond to challenges and unforeseen circumstances. We may also decide to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing we obtain in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale.. As of January 31, 2018, we had an aggregate of 42,028,275 outstanding shares of common stock. The shares sold in our IPO and follow-on offerings can be freely sold in the public market without restriction. The remaining shares can be freely sold in the public market, subject in some cases to volume and other restrictions under Rule 144 and 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and various agreements.. In addition, we have registered 14,090,763 shares of common stock that we have issued and may issue under our stock plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject in some cases to volume and other restrictions under Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act, and various vesting agreements. In addition, some of our employees, including some of our executive officers, have entered into 10b5-1 trading plans regarding sales of shares of our common stock. These plans provide for sales to occur from time to time.  If any of these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Also, in the future, we may issue additional securities in connection with investments and acquisitions. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding stock. Due to these factors, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts publish unfavorable or misleading research about our business, or cease coverage of our company, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the securities or industry analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes unfavorable or misleading research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, and demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 31. Table of Contents. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant increased expenses and administrative burdens as a public company, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. We face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company prior to our IPO in March 2014. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the requirements of Section 404, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the New York Stock Exchange, impose additional reporting and other obligations on public companies. Compliance with public company requirements have and will increase our costs and make some activities more time-consuming. Since our IPO, we have created new board committees and have adopted new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we have and will continue to incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. Furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if our financial systems prove inadequate or we or our auditors identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting), we could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect us, our reputation or investor perceptions of us. It is also more expensive to maintain director and officer liability insurance as a public company. Risks associated with our status as a public company may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. The additional reporting and other obligations imposed on us by these rules and regulations have and we expect will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and the costs of our related legal, accounting and administrative activities. These costs require us to divert a significant amount of money that we could otherwise use to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives. Proposals submitted by stockholders at our annual meeting or other advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt additional changes in governance and reporting requirements, which could further increase our costs.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This situation could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate investigations, inquiries, administrative proceedings or legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected.. Insiders continue to have significant control over us, which may limit our stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters and delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control over us.. As of January 31, 2018, our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 19.2% of our outstanding common stock. This significant concentration of ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with one or more large stockholders. In addition, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership could limit other stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change in control would benefit our other stockholders.. Our management has broad discretion over the use of the proceeds we received in our IPO and follow-on offerings and might not apply those proceeds in ways that increase the value of our common stock.. Our management has broad discretion to use the net proceeds from our IPO and our follow-on offerings. Our management might not apply the net proceeds of the IPO or follow-on offerings in ways that increase the value of our common stock. We utilized our net proceeds from the IPO to repay approximately $6.2 million of outstanding indebtedness under our previous credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, or Credit Facility, and approximately $31.7 million, including amounts held back to cover indemnification, to acquire Centrix and Social Money, paid $8.2 million to the former Centrix shareholders based upon the achievement of certain milestones and continued employment with Q2, completed an asset purchase for $1.5 million in cash in January 2017 (which includes a hold-back of $150,000), and expect to use the balance for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures, which may in the future include investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Our management might not be able to yield a significant return, if any, on any use of these net proceeds.. 32. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. While we have documented and assessed our internal controls, we continue to evaluate opportunities to further strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of our internal controls and procedures for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessment and annual independent registered public accounting firm attestation reports of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including the risk factors described in this report, and other factors beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include:. • variations in our operating results or the operating results of similar companies;. • announcements of technological innovations, new solutions or enhancements or strategic partnerships or agreements by us or by our competitors;. • changes in the estimates of our operating results, our financial guidance or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our common stock;. • the gain or loss of customers, particularly our larger customers;. • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business and our customers' business;. • marketing and advertising initiatives by us or our competitors;. • threatened or actual litigation;. • changes in our senior management;. • recruitment or departure of key personnel;. • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole;. • the overall performance of the equity markets;. • sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders; and. • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock-based compensation expenses under applicable accounting standards.. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. Each of these factors, among others, could adversely affect your investment in our common stock. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class action lawsuits filed against them. If a suit were filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, it could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention.. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates.. We have never declared nor paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will. 33. Table of Contents. depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our company will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock that will prevail in the market will ever exceed the price that you paid for your common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which apply to us, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws:. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to help defend against a takeover attempt;. • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election;. • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and only upon a supermajority stockholder vote;. • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office rather than by stockholders;. • prevent stockholders from calling special meetings;. • include advance notice procedures for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders;. • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and. • provide that certain litigation against us can only be brought in Delaware."
