[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Described below are certain risks that we believe are applicable to our business and the oil and gas industry in which we operate. Investors should read carefully the following factors as well as the cautionary statements referred to in \"Forward-Looking Statements\" herein. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The prices for oil, gas and NGL are volatile, and declines in such prices could adversely affect QEP's earnings, cash flows, asset values and stock price. Historically, oil, gas and NGL prices have been volatile and unpredictable, and that volatility is expected to continue. Volatility in oil, gas and NGL prices is due to a variety of factors that are beyond QEP's control, including:. 31. • changes in local, regional, domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil, gas and NGL;. • the impact of an abundance of oil, gas and NGL from unconventional sources on the global and local energy supply;. • the level of imports and/or exports of, and the price of, foreign oil, gas and NGL;. • localized supply and demand fundamentals, including the proximity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities, and other factors that result in differentials to benchmark prices from time to time;. • the availability of refining and storage capacity;. • domestic and global economic and political conditions;. • changes in government energy policies, including imposed price controls or product subsidies or both;. • speculative trading in crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts;. • the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action;. • the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil producing countries, including the ability of members of OPEC to maintain oil price and production controls;. • political and economic conditions and events in the United States and in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. • the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies;. • weather conditions and natural disasters;. • domestic and international laws, regulations and taxes, including regulations or legislation relating to climate change, induced seismicity or oil and gas exploration and production activities;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;. • conservation efforts;. • the price, availability and acceptance of alternative energy sources, including coal, nuclear energy, renewables and biofuels;. • demand for electricity and natural gas used as fuel for electricity generation;. • the level of global oil, gas and NGL inventories and exploration and production activity; and. • the quality of oil and gas produced.. The long-term effect of these and other factors on the prices of oil, gas and NGL is uncertain. Prolonged or further declines in these commodity prices may have the following effects on QEP's business:. • adversely affecting QEP's financial condition and liquidity and QEP's ability to finance planned capital expenditures, borrow money, repay debt and raise additional capital;. • reducing the amount of oil, gas and NGL that QEP can produce economically;. • causing QEP to delay, postpone or cancel some of its capital projects;. • causing QEP to divest of properties to generate funds to meet cash flow or liquidity requirements;. • reducing QEP's revenues, operating income or cash flows;. • reducing the amounts of QEP's estimated proved oil, gas and NGL proved reserves;. • reducing the carrying value of QEP's oil and gas properties due to recognizing additional impairments of proved and unproved properties;. • limiting QEP's access to, or increasing the cost of, sources of capital such as equity and long-term debt;. • additional counterparty credit risk; and. • decreasing the value of QEP's common stock.. Lower oil, gas and NGL prices or negative adjustments to oil, gas and NGL reserves may result in significant impairment charges. Lower commodity prices may not only decrease QEP's revenues, operating income and cash flows but also may reduce the amount of oil, gas and NGL that QEP can produce economically. GAAP requires QEP to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of its oil and gas properties in the event QEP has impairments. QEP is required to perform impairment tests on its assets periodically and whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant a review of its assets. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of its assets, the carrying value may not be recoverable, and, therefore, a write-down may be required. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, QEP recorded impairment charges of $38.1 million, $1,172.7 million and $39.3 million, respectively, on its proved properties and $29.0 million, $17.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively, on its unproved properties. QEP also recorded an impairment of $6.5 million on its underground gas storage facility during the year ended December 31, 2017 and goodwill impairment of $5.3 million, $3.7 million and $14.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Refer to Part I, Item 8, Note 1  -  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.. 32. If forward oil prices decline from December 31, 2017 levels or we experience negative changes to the estimated reserve quantities, we have proved and unproved properties with a net book value of approximately $2.7 billion, as of December 31, 2017, at risk for impairment, primarily associated with our Williston Basin. The actual amount of impairment incurred, if any, for these properties will depend on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, subsequent forward price curve changes, the additional risk-adjusted value of probable and possible reserves associated with the properties, weighted-average cost of capital, operating cost estimates and future capital expenditure estimates.. The Company may not be able to economically find and develop new reserves. The Company's profitability depends not only on prevailing prices for oil, gas and NGL, but also on its ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Producing oil and gas reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics. Because oil and gas production volumes from unconventional wells typically experience relatively steep declines in the first year of operation and continue to decline over the economic life of the well, QEP must continue to invest significant capital to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Failure to find or acquire additional reserves would cause reserves and production to decline materially from their current levels.. Oil and gas reserve estimates are imprecise, may prove to be inaccurate, and are subject to revision. Any significant inaccuracies in QEP's reserve estimates or underlying assumptions may negatively affect the quantities and present value of QEP's reserves. QEP's proved oil and gas reserve estimates are prepared annually by independent reservoir engineering consultants. Oil and gas reserve estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of these estimates depends on the quality of available data and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserve estimates are imprecise and will change as additional information becomes available. Estimates of economically recoverable reserves and future net cash flows prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary significantly. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revisions of previous estimates. In addition, the estimation process involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, operating costs, severance and other taxes, capital expenditures and remediation costs. Actual results most likely will vary from the estimates. Any significant variance from these assumptions could affect the recoverable quantities of reserves attributable to any particular property, the classifications of reserves, the estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves and the present value of those reserves.. Investors should not assume that QEP's presentation of the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows relating to Proved Reserves in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is reflective of the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC disclosure rules, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from QEP's proved reserves are based on the first-of-the-month prior 12-month average prices and current costs on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties and using a discount factor of 10% per year. QEP's cost estimates do not include any carbon pollution costs associated with climate change damages. Actual future production, prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the current estimate, and future determinations of the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows using similarly determined prices and costs may be significantly different from the current estimate. Therefore, reserve quantities may change when actual prices increase or decrease. In addition, the 10% discount factor QEP uses when calculating discounted future net cash flows in accordance with SEC disclosure rules, may not be the most appropriate discount factor that is based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and gas industry in general.. In addition, realization or recognition of proved undeveloped reserves will depend on QEP's development schedule and plans. A change in future development plans for proved undeveloped reserves could cause the discontinuation of the classification of those reserves as proved. See Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties - Proved Reserves in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our use of seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. Even when properly used and interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether producible hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures in economic quantities. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical.. 33. Shortages of qualified personnel and/or oilfield equipment and services could impact results of operations. The oil and gas industry has long suffered a skills shortage, recognized by many to be a threat to future growth. This skills shortage has been exacerbated by depressed oil and gas prices in the last three years and the resulting loss of skilled workers through layoffs in the oil and gas industry during these years. The demand for and availability of qualified and experienced personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, in addition to geologists, geophysicists, engineers, landmen and other professionals in the oil and gas industry, will create challenges for QEP and its competitors and may cause periodic and problematic personnel shortages. In periods of high commodity prices, there have also been regional shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment. Any cost increases could impact profit margin, cash flow and operating results or restrict QEP's ability to drill wells and conduct operations.. QEP's operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which QEP may not be adequately insured. There are operational risks associated with the exploration, production, gathering, transporting, and storage of oil, gas and NGL, including:. • injuries and/or deaths of employees, supplier personnel, or other individuals;. • fire, explosions and blowouts;. • earthquakes and other natural disasters;. • aging infrastructure and mechanical problems;. • unexpected drilling conditions, including abnormally pressured formations or loss of drilling fluid circulation;. • pipe, cement or casing failures;. • equipment malfunctions and/or mechanical failure;. • theft or vandalism of oilfield equipment and supplies, especially in areas of increased activity;. • severe weather;. • plant, pipeline, railway and other facility accidents and failures;. • truck and rail loading and unloading problems;. • environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline or tank ruptures, or discharges of air pollutants, brine water or well fluids into the environment;. • security breaches, cyberattacks, piracy, or terrorist acts; and. • title problems.. QEP could incur substantial losses as a result of injury to or loss of life, pollution or other environmental damage, damage to or destruction of property or equipment, regulatory compliance investigations, fines or curtailment of operations, or attorneys' fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As a working interest owner in wells operated by other companies, QEP may also be exposed to the risks enumerated above from operations that are not within its care, custody or control.. Consistent with industry practice, QEP generally indemnifies drilling contractors and oilfield service companies (collectively, contractors) against certain losses suffered by QEP as the operator and certain third parties resulting from a well blowout or fire or other uncontrolled flow of hydrocarbons, regardless of fault. Therefore, QEP may be liable, regardless of fault, for some or all of the costs of controlling a blowout, drilling a relief and/or replacement well and the cleanup of any pollution or contamination resulting from a blowout in addition to claims for personal injury or death suffered by QEP's employees and certain others. QEP's drilling contracts and oilfield service agreements, however, often provide that the contractor will indemnify QEP for claims related to injury and death of employees of the contractor and its subcontractors and for property damage suffered by the contractor and its subcontractors.. QEP's insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover 100% of potential losses arising as a result of the foregoing risks. QEP has limited or no coverage for certain other risks, such political risk, lost reserves, business interruption, cyber risk, earthquakes, war and terrorism. Although QEP believes the coverage and amounts of insurance that it carries are consistent with industry practice, QEP does not have insurance protection against all risks that it faces because QEP chooses not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the costs of insurance and QEP's desired rates of return, or actual losses may exceed coverage limits. QEP could sustain significant losses and substantial liability for uninsured risks. The occurrence of a significant event against which QEP is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 34. Part of our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. • spacing of wells to maximize production rates and recoverable reserves;. • landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. • staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. • running casing the entire length of the wellbore;. • being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore; and. • controlling high pressure wells.. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, our inability to:. • fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. • run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations;. • successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage;. • prevent unintentional communication with other wells; and. • design and maintain efficient artificial lift throughout the life of the well.. QEP began testing the restimulation, or refracturing, of wells in Haynesville/Cotton Valley during 2016 and expanded the use of this technique to its Williston Basin properties during 2017. Refracturing an existing well is technically more challenging than fracturing a new well and may result in the loss of the existing producing well.. The use of new horizontal drilling and completion techniques that simultaneously develop multiple producing horizons can add complexity to field development. For example, QEP experienced delays in placing certain wells in the Permian Basin into production during 2017 due to evolution of its \"tank-style\" completion methodology caused shifts in completion timing.. If our drilling and completion activities do not meet our anticipated results or we are unable to execute our drilling and completion program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, limited access to gathering systems, limited takeaway capacity and/or declines in crude oil and natural gas prices, the return on our investment for certain projects may not be as attractive as we anticipate. Further, as a result of any of these developments, we could incur material write-downs of our oil and gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. QEP has limited control over the activities on properties it does not operate. Other companies operate some of the properties in which QEP has an interest. QEP has limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of these non-operated properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount or timing of capital expenditures that QEP is required to fund with respect to them. The failure of an operator of QEP's wells to adequately perform operations, an operator's breach of the applicable agreements with QEP or an operator's failure to act in ways that are in QEP's best interest could reduce QEP's production and revenues. QEP's dependence on the operator and other working interest owners to complete these projects and QEP's limited ability to influence or control the operation and future development of these properties could materially adversely affect the realization of QEP's targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities, lead to unexpected future costs, or adversely affect the timing of activities.. Multi-well pad drilling may result in volatility in QEP operating results and delay conversion of PUD reserves. QEP utilizes multi-well pad drilling where practical. For example, in the Permian Basin, QEP utilizes \"tank-style\" development, in which we drill and complete all wells in a given \"tank\" before any individual well is turned to production. In other areas, QEP drills multiple wells from a single pad. Wells drilled on a pad are not brought into production until all wells on the pad are drilled and cased and the drilling rig is moved from the location. In addition, existing wells that offset newly drilled wells may be temporarily shut-in during the drilling and completion process. As a result, multi-well pad drilling delays the completion of wells and the commencement of production, which may cause volatility in QEP's operating results from period to period. Existing wells that offset new wells being completed by QEP or offset operators may also need to be temporarily shut-in during the completion process. Such delays and well shut-ins have caused and may continue to cause volatility in QEP's operating results from period to period. In addition, delays in completion of wells may impact planned conversion of PUD reserves to proved developed.. 35. Lack of availability of refining, gas processing, storage, gathering or transportation capacity will likely impact results of operations. The lack of availability of satisfactory oil, gas and NGL gathering and transportation, including trucks, railways and pipelines, gas processing, storage or refining capacity may hinder QEP's access to oil, gas and NGL markets or delay production from its wells. QEP's ability to market its production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of gathering, transportation, gas processing facilities, storage or refineries owned and operated by third parties. Although QEP has some contractual control over the transportation of its production through firm transportation arrangements, third-party systems may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical failures, accidents or other reasons. If gathering, transportation, gas processing or storage facilities do not exist near producing wells; if gathering, transportation, gas processing, storage or refining capacity is limited; or if gathering, transportation, gas processing or refining capacity is unexpectedly disrupted, completion activity could be delayed, sales could be reduced, or production shut-in, each of which could reduce profitability. Furthermore, if QEP were required to shut-in wells, it might also be obligated to pay certain demand charges for gathering and processing services, firm transportation charges on interstate pipelines as well as shut-in royalties to certain mineral interest owners in order to maintain its leases; or depending on the specific lease provisions, some leases could terminate. In addition, rail accidents involving crude oil carriers have resulted in new regulations, and may result in additional regulations, on transportation of oil by railway. QEP might be required to install or contract for additional treating or processing equipment, which could increase costs. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, transportation pressures, damage to or destruction of transportation facilities and general economic conditions could also adversely affect QEP's ability to transport oil and gas.. Certain of QEP's undeveloped leaseholds are subject to lease agreements that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on the acreage or on units containing the acreage or the leases are otherwise renewed or extended. Leases on oil and gas properties typically have a primary term of three to five years after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, a well is drilled and production of hydrocarbons in paying quantities is established or the lease is renewed or extended. If a lease expires or is not renewed before expiration, QEP will lose its right to develop the related reserves. While QEP seeks to actively manage its leasehold inventory by drilling sufficient wells to hold the leases that it believes are material to its operations, QEP's drilling plans are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals.. QEP may be required to write down its proved undeveloped reserve estimates if it is unable to convert those reserves into proved developed reserves within five years. SEC rules require that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped (PUD) reserves may only be classified as proved reserves if they are from locations scheduled to be drilled within five years after the date of booking. Recovery of PUD reserves requires the expenditure of significant capital and successful drilling operations.  QEP may be required to write down its PUD reserves if it is not successful in drilling PUD wells within the required five-year time frame. During 2017 and 2016, QEP removed 8.7 MMboe and 5.4 MMboe, respectively, of PUD reserves that were no longer in the 2018 and 2017 forecasted capital expenditure plans, respectively, and would not be drilled and completed within five years of the initial date of booking of the reserves. At December 31, 2017, approximately 63% of QEP's estimated proved reserves were PUD reserves. These reserve estimates reflect the Company's plans to make significant capital expenditures to convert its PUDs into proved developed reserves, requiring an estimated $4.3 billion during the five years ending December 31, 2022. The estimated development costs may not be accurate; timing to incur such costs may change; development may not occur as scheduled; and results may not be as estimated.. QEP's identified potential well locations are scheduled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, QEP may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill its potential well locations. QEP has identified and scheduled well locations to build its multi-year development plan for its existing leaseholds. These well locations represent a significant part of QEP's growth strategy. QEP's ability to drill and develop these locations is impacted by a number of uncertainties, including the ongoing review and analysis of geologic and engineering data, oil and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, potential interference between infill and existing wells, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water and water disposal facilities, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these factors, QEP does not know if the potential well locations it has identified will be drilled or if QEP will be able to produce oil and gas from these or any other potential well locations. In addition, any drilling activities QEP is able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in QEP's ability to add additional proved reserves to its overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of its estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on QEP's future business and results of operations.. 36. Renegotiation of gathering, processing and transportation agreements may result in higher costs and/or delays in selling production. Due to market conditions over the past few years, many midstream companies have attempted to renegotiate their gathering, processing and transportation agreements with their upstream counterparties. QEP has periodically been in discussions with its midstream providers. If QEP agrees to renegotiate its midstream agreements, the costs QEP pays for midstream services may increase. If QEP and any of its midstream service providers cannot agree on revised terms to these agreements, the midstream service providers may assert that continued performance of their obligations under these contracts is uneconomic and attempt to terminate or alter the agreements, which could hinder QEP's access to oil, gas and NGL markets, increase costs and/or delay completion of or production from its wells. Disputes over termination or changes to such agreements could result in arbitration or litigation, causing uncertainty about the status of the agreements and further delays.. QEP is required to pay fees to some of its midstream service providers based on minimum volumes regardless of actual volume throughput. QEP has contracts with some third-party service providers for gathering, processing and transportation services with minimum volume delivery commitments. As of December 31, 2017, QEP's aggregate long-term contractual obligation under these agreements was $392.9 million. QEP is obligated to pay fees on minimum volumes to service providers regardless of actual volume throughput. These fees could be significant and have a material adverse effect on QEP's results of operations.. QEP is dependent on its revolving credit facility and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. If QEP is unable to make capital expenditures or acquisitions because it is unable to obtain capital or financing on satisfactory terms, QEP may experience a decline in its oil and gas production rates and reserves. QEP is partially dependent on external capital sources to provide financing for certain projects. The availability and cost of these capital sources is cyclical, and these capital sources may not remain available, or QEP may not be able to obtain financing at a reasonable cost in the future. Over the last few years, conditions in the global capital markets have been volatile, making terms for certain types of financing difficult to predict, and in certain cases, resulting in certain types of financing being unavailable. If QEP's revenues decline as a result of lower oil, gas or NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in production or for any other reason, QEP may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain its operations at current levels. At year end 2017, QEP had $89.0 million of borrowings under its unsecured revolving credit facility. In the past, QEP has utilized cash and its revolving credit facility, provided by a group of financial institutions, to meet short-term funding needs. Borrowings under its revolving credit facility incur floating interest rates. From time to time, QEP may use interest rate derivatives to manage the interest rate on a portion of its floating-rate debt. The interest rates for QEP's revolving credit facility are tied to QEP's ratio of indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement). QEP's failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of its operations relating to exploration and development of its prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible reduction in QEP's oil or gas production, reserves and revenues, and could negatively impact QEP's results of operations.. QEP's debt and other financial commitments may limit its financial and operating flexibility. QEP's total debt was approximately $2.2 billion at December 31, 2017. QEP also has various commitments for leases, drilling contracts, derivative contracts, firm transportation, and purchase obligations for services, products and properties. QEP's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business, including, but not limited to, limiting QEP's ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, or to otherwise realize the value of its assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to payments on its debt or to comply with any restrictive terms of its debt. QEP may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to similar companies that have less debt. Higher levels of debt may make QEP more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Additionally, the agreement governing QEP's revolving credit facility and the indentures covering QEP's senior notes contain a number of covenants that impose constraints on the Company, including restrictions on QEP's ability to dispose of assets, make certain investments, incur liens and additional debt, and engage in transactions with affiliates. If commodity prices decline and QEP reduces its level of capital spending and production declines or QEP incurs additional impairment expense or the value of the Company's proved reserves declines, the Company may not be able to incur additional indebtedness and may not be in compliance with the financial covenants in its credit agreement in the future. Refer to Item 7  -  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 8  -  Debt, in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the financial covenants and our revolving credit agreement.. A downgrade in QEP's credit rating could negatively impact QEP's cost of and access to capital. As of February 2018, QEP's credit ratings are BB+ by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC (S&P), Ba3 by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. (Moody's) and BB by Fitch Ratings, Inc. (Fitch). A downgrade of QEP's credit rating may make it more difficult or expensive for QEP to raise capital from financial institutions or other sources and could require QEP to provide financial assurance of its performance under certain contractual arrangements and derivative agreements. In addition, a downgrade of QEP's credit ratings could result in a requirement for QEP to comply with an additional covenant under QEP's credit agreement, which could limit the amount of debt that QEP may incur.. 37. Failure to fund continued capital expenditures could adversely affect QEP's properties. QEP's exploration, development and acquisition activities require capital expenditures to achieve production and cash flows. Historically, QEP has funded its capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows from operations, its revolving credit facility, debt issuances, equity offerings and sales of assets. Future cash flows from operations are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil, gas and NGL, and QEP's success in finding, developing and producing new reserves.. QEP's use of derivative instruments to manage exposure to uncertain prices could result in financial losses or reduce its income. QEP uses commodity price derivative arrangements to reduce exposure to the volatility of oil, gas and NGL prices, and to protect cash flow and returns on capital from downward commodity price movements. QEP's derivative transactions are limited in duration, usually for periods of one to three years. QEP's derivatives portfolio may be inadequate to protect it from prolonged declines in the price of oil or natural gas. To the extent the Company enters into commodity derivative transactions, it may forgo some or all of the benefits of commodity price increases. Furthermore, QEP's use of derivative instruments through which it attempts to reduce the economic risk of its participation in commodity markets could result in increased volatility of QEP's reported results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of derivatives are recorded in QEP's income, which creates the risk of volatility in earnings even if no economic impact to QEP has occurred during the applicable period. QEP has incurred significant unrealized gains and losses in prior periods and may continue to incur these types of gains and losses in the future.. QEP is exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of QEP's receivables and commodity derivative transactions. QEP has significant credit exposure to outstanding accounts receivable from purchasers of its production and joint working interest owners. This counterparty credit risk is heightened during times of economic uncertainty, tight credit markets and low commodity prices. Because QEP is the operator of a majority of its production and major development projects, QEP pays joint venture expenses and in some cases makes cash calls on its non-operating partners for their respective shares of joint venture costs. These projects are capital intensive and, in some cases, a non-operating partner may experience a delay in obtaining financing for its share of the joint venture costs. Counterparty liquidity problems could result in a delay or collection issues in QEP receiving proceeds from commodity sales or reimbursement of joint venture costs. Credit enhancements, such as parental guarantees, letters of credit or prepayments, have been obtained from some but not all counterparties. Nonperformance by a trade creditor or joint venture partner could result in financial losses. In addition, QEP's commodity derivative transactions expose it to risk of financial loss if the counterparty fails to perform under a contract. During periods of falling commodity prices, QEP's commodity derivative receivable positions increase, which increases its counterparty credit exposure. QEP monitors creditworthiness of its trade creditors, joint venture partners, derivative counterparties and financial institutions on an ongoing basis. However, if one of them were to experience a sudden change in liquidity, it could impair such a party's ability to perform under the terms of QEP's contracts. QEP is unable to predict sudden changes in creditworthiness or ability of these parties to perform and could incur significant financial losses.. The enactment of derivatives legislation, and the promulgation of regulations pursuant thereto, could have an adverse impact on QEP's ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price volatility and other risks associated with its business. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law in July 2010, contains significant derivatives regulation, including, among other items, a requirement that certain transactions be cleared on exchanges as well as collateral or \"margin\" requirements for certain uncleared swaps. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for an exception from these clearing requirements for commercial end-users, such as QEP. The Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks QEP encounters, reduce QEP's ability to monetize or restructure QEP's existing derivative contracts, increase the administrative burden and regulatory risk associated with entering into certain derivative contracts, and increase QEP's exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and gas. QEP revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and its regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could affect the pricing of derivatives and make it more difficult for us to enter into derivative transactions, which could have a material and adverse effect on QEP's business, financial condition and results of operations. The rulemaking and implementation process are ongoing and the ultimate effect of the adopted rules and regulations and any future rules and regulations on QEP's business remains uncertain.. 38. QEP faces various risks associated with the trend toward increased opposition to oil and gas exploration and development activities. Opposition to oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in the U.S. Companies in the oil and gas industry, such as QEP, are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and ENGOs regarding safety, environmental compliance and business practices. Anti-development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands and delay or cancel certain projects such as the development of oil or gas shale plays. For example, ENGOs and other environmental activists continue to advocate for increased regulations on shale drilling in the U.S., even in jurisdictions that are among the most stringent in their regulation of the industry. Future activist efforts could result in the following:. • delay or denial of drilling and other necessary permits;. • shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size;. • restrictions on installation or operation of gathering, processing or pipeline facilities;. • more stringent setback requirements from houses, schools and businesses;. • towns, cities, states and counties considering bans on certain activities, including hydraulic fracturing;. • restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing, or the disposition of related waste materials, such as hydraulic fracturing fluids and produced water;. • reduced access to water supplies or restrictions on water disposal;. • increased severance and/or other taxes;. • cyberattacks;. • legal challenges or lawsuits;. • negative publicity about QEP;. • disinvestment and other targeted activist shareholder campaigns;. • increased costs of doing business;. • reduction in demand for QEP's production;. • other adverse effects on QEP's ability to develop its properties and increase production;. • increased regulation of rail transportation of crude oil;. • opposition to the construction of new oil and gas pipelines;. • postponement of state oil and gas lease sales; and. • delays in or challenges to issuance of federal oil and gas leases.. QEP may incur substantial costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any resulting additional legal or regulatory requirements that are not adequately provided for, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. QEP faces significant competition and certain of its competitors have resources in excess of QEP's available resources. QEP operates in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, exploitation, acquisition and production. QEP faces competition from:. • large multi-national, integrated oil companies;. • U.S. independent oil and gas companies;. • service companies engaging in oil and gas exploration and production activities; and. • private investing in oil and gas assets.. QEP faces competition in a number of areas such as:. • acquiring desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration;. • acquiring or increasing access to gathering, processing and transportation services and capacity;. • marketing its oil, gas and NGL production;. • obtaining the equipment and expertise necessary to operate and develop properties; and. • attracting and retaining employees with certain critical skills.. Certain of QEP's competitors have financial and other resources in excess of those available to QEP. Such companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than QEP's financial or human resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than QEP is able to offer. This highly competitive environment could have an adverse impact on QEP's ability to execute its strategy, QEP's financial condition and its results of operations.. 39. QEP may be unable to make acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses and/or assets, or adjust to the effects of divestitures, causing a disruption to its business. One aspect of QEP's business strategy calls for acquisitions of businesses and assets that complement or expand QEP's operations, such as QEP's 2017 Permian Basin Acquisition. QEP cannot provide assurance that it will be able to identify additional acquisition opportunities. Even if QEP does identify additional acquisition opportunities, it may not be able to complete the acquisitions due to capital constraints. Any acquisition of a business or assets involves potential risks, including, among others:. • incorrect estimates or assumptions about reserves, exploration potential or potential drilling locations;. • incorrect assumptions regarding future revenues, including future commodity prices and differentials, or regarding. future development and operating costs;. • difficulty integrating the operations, systems, management and other personnel and technology of the acquired business or assets with QEP's own;. • the assumption of unidentified or unforeseeable liabilities, resulting in a loss of value;. • the inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate QEP's growing business and assets; or. • a decrease in QEP's liquidity to the extent it uses a significant portion of its available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions or operations of the acquired properties.. Organizational modifications due to acquisitions, divestitures or other strategic changes can alter the risk and control environments; disrupt ongoing business; distract management and employees; increase expenses; result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation; harm QEP's strategy; and adversely affect results of operations. Even if these challenges can be dealt with successfully, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, divestiture or other strategic change may not be realized.. In addition, QEP's credit agreement and the indentures governing QEP's senior notes impose certain limitations on QEP's ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. QEP's credit agreement also limits QEP's ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could limit QEP's ability to engage in acquisitions.. QEP may be unable to divest of assets on financially attractive terms, resulting in reduced cash proceeds. QEP is continuously evaluating the sale of certain upstream and midstream assets. QEP's success in divesting assets depends, in part, upon QEP's ability to identify suitable buyers or joint venture partners; assess potential transaction terms; negotiate agreements; and, if applicable, obtain required approvals. Various factors could materially affect QEP's ability to dispose of assets on terms acceptable to QEP. Such factors include, but are not limited to: current and forecasted commodity prices; current laws, regulations and permitting processes impacting oil and gas operations in the areas where the assets are located; covenants under QEP's credit agreement; tax impacts; willingness of the purchaser to assume certain liabilities such as asset retirement obligations; QEP's willingness to indemnify buyers for certain matters; and other factors.. In addition, QEP's credit agreement contains limitations on the amount of asset sales that it is permitted to divest each year. If QEP seeks to sell more assets than is permitted under the credit agreement and is unable to receive waivers of such restrictions, then it may be unable to divest of these assets.. QEP is involved in legal proceedings that could result in substantial liabilities and materially and adversely impact the Company's financial condition. Like many oil and gas companies, the Company is involved in various legal proceedings, including threatened claims, such as title, royalty, and contractual disputes. The cost to settle legal proceedings (asserted or unasserted) or satisfy any resulting judgment against the Company in such proceedings could result in a substantial liability or the loss of interests, which could materially and adversely impact the Company's cash flows, operating results and financial condition. Judgments and estimates to determine accruals or range of losses related to legal proceedings could change from one period to the next, and such changes could be material. Current accruals may be insufficient. Legal proceedings could result in negative publicity about the Company. In addition, legal proceedings distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities.. 40. Failure of the Company's controls and procedures to detect errors or fraud could seriously harm its business and results of operations. QEP's management, including its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that the Company's internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are being met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefit of controls are evaluated relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of QEP's controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in the Company have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. Violations of any laws or regulations caused by either failure of our internal controls related to regulatory compliance or failure of our employees to comply with our internal policies could result in substantial civil or criminal fines. In addition, legal enforcement may be impacted by significant incentives for whistleblowers.. QEP is subject to complex federal, state, tribal, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect its cost of doing business and recording of proved reserves. QEP's operations are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal and local tax, energy, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties and may threaten the Company's authorization to operate.. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more onerous over time. This regulatory burden on the Company's operations increases its cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. In addition to the costs of compliance, substantial costs may be incurred to take corrective actions at both owned and previously owned facilities. Accidental spills and leaks requiring cleanup may occur in the ordinary course of QEP's business. As standards change, the Company may incur significant costs in cases where past operations followed practices that were considered acceptable at the time, but now require remedial work to meet current standards. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in fines, significant costs for remedial activities, other damages, or injunctions that could limit the scope of QEP's planned operations.. Clean Air Act regulations at 40 C.F.R Part 60, Subpart OOOO (Subpart OOOO) became effective in 2012, with further amendments effective in 2013 and 2014. Subpart OOOO imposes air quality controls and requirements upon QEP's operations. Additionally, in June 2016, the EPA finalized closely related rules in new Subpart OOOOa to achieve additional methane and volatile organic compound reductions from certain activities in the oil and gas industry. The new rules include, among others, new requirements for finding and repairing leaks at new well sites and \"reduced emission completion\" requirements for hydraulically fractured oil and gas wells. The future status of Subpart OOOOa remains uncertain given ongoing litigation and administrative regulatory actions. EPA has proposed a two-year stay of the effective dates of several requirements of Subpart OOOOa, including fugitive emission requirements, well site pneumatic pump standards, and requirements for certification of closed vent systems. The rules, however, remain in effect as of the filing of this report. The regulatory uncertainty surrounding the implementation of this rule poses some complications for QEP's operations and compliance efforts.  Additionally, many states are adopting air permitting and other air quality control regulations specific to oil and gas exploration, production, gathering and processing that are more stringent than existing requirements under federal regulations.. 41. Regulatory requirements to reduce gas flaring and to further restrict emissions could have an adverse effect on our operations.  Wells in the Williston Basin of North Dakota and the Permian Basin of Texas, where QEP has significant operations, produce natural gas as well as crude oil. Constraints in third party gas gathering and processing systems in certain areas have resulted in some of that natural gas being flared instead of gathered, processed and sold. In June 2014, the NDI Commission, North Dakota's chief energy regulator, adopted a policy to reduce the volume of natural gas flared from oil wells in the Williston Basin. The Commission requires operators to develop gas capture plans that describe how much natural gas is expected to be produced, how it will be delivered to a processor and where it will be processed. Production caps or penalties may be imposed on certain wells that cannot meet the capture goals. It is possible that other states will require gas capture plans in the future to reduce flaring. Additionally, in November 2016, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) finalized a new rule related to further controls on the venting, flaring and emissions of natural gas on BLM and tribal leases (the 2016 Venting and Flaring Rule). The rule took effect in January 2017. Some provisions of the rule required compliance in January 2017, including the royalty provisions, while other provisions including those related to further controls on the venting and flaring of natural gas, did not require compliance until January 2018. The 2016 Venting and Flaring Rule is the subject of active litigation in the U.S. District Court for the District of Wyoming. In December 2017, the BLM published a rule to delay the January 2018 compliance deadlines and suspend the obligation to comply with certain provisions that had required compliance in January 2017, until January 2019 (2017 Delay Rule). Certain states and ENGOs filed litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California challenging the 2017 Delay Rule, and the court preliminarily enjoined the 2017 Delay Rule on February 22, 2018, requiring operators to immediately comply with the 2016 Venting and Flaring Rule. These state and federal gas capture requirements, and any similar future obligations in North Dakota or our other locations, increase our operational costs and may restrict our production, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Rules regarding crude oil shipments by rail may pose unique hazards that may have an adverse effect on our operations. The North Dakota Industrial Commission requires that crude oil produced in the Bakken Petroleum System be conditioned to remove lighter, volatile hydrocarbons and improve the marketability and safe transportation of the crude oil. The U.S. Department of Transportation rule regarding the safe transportation of flammable liquids by rail imposes certain requirements on \"offerors\" of crude oil, including sampling, testing, and certification requirements. These conditioning requirements, and any similar future obligations imposed at the state or federal level, may increase our operational costs or restrict our production, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in areas where we operate.  Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas may be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various species and wildlife. Seasonal restrictions may limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations or materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect threatened and endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we operate could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and produce our reserves. For example, the Department of the Interior's Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) plans to issue a proposed rule listing the Lesser Prairie-Chicken as a threatened or endangered species. The Lesser Prairie-Chicken is a grouse species native to Texas, including parts of the Permian Basin where QEP operates. Additionally, the FWS released a proposed rule to list the Louisiana Pine Snake as threatened under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). They listed Bienville Parish as one of the Parishes that the snake can be found. QEP operates within Bienville Parish. The FWS is in the process of making a final determination in 2018 of whether to list under the ESA.. Environmental laws are complex and potentially burdensome for QEP's operations. QEP must comply with numerous and complex federal, state and tribal environmental regulations governing activities on federal, state and tribal lands, notably including the federal Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, SDWA, OPA, CERCLA, RCRA, NEPA, the Endangered Species Act, the National Historic Preservation Act and similar state laws and tribal codes. Federal, state and tribal regulatory agencies frequently impose conditions on the Company's activities under these laws. These restrictions have become more stringent over time and can limit or prevent exploration and production on significant portions of the Company's leasehold. These laws also allow certain ENGOs to oppose drilling on some of QEP's federal and state leases. These organizations sometimes sue federal and state regulatory agencies and/or the Company under these laws for alleged procedural violations in an attempt to stop, limit or delay oil and gas development on public and other lands.. 42. QEP may not be able to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to continue and expand its operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. It may be costly and time consuming to comply with requirements imposed by these authorities, and compliance may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of the Company's exploration and production. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise seek to influence the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, necessary permits may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict QEP's ability to conduct its operations or to do so profitably. In addition, the BIA implemented final regulations in March 2016, which significantly altered the procedure for obtaining rights-of-way on tribal lands. These new regulations may increase the time and cost required to obtain necessary rights-of-ways for QEP's operations on tribal lands.. Federal and state hydraulic fracturing legislation or regulatory initiatives could increase QEP's costs and restrict its access to oil and gas reserves.  Currently, well construction activities, including hydraulic fracture stimulation, are regulated by state agencies that review and approve oil and gas well design and operation. The EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel under the SDWA and issued guidance related to this asserted regulatory authority. The EPA may consider seeking to further regulate hydraulic fracturing fluids and/or the components of those fluids. At the state level, some states have adopted and other states have considered adopting regulations and moratoria that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. If new or more stringent federal, state or local regulations, restrictions or moratoria are adopted in areas where QEP operates, QEP could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling or stimulating wells in some areas.. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts to drinking water resources from hydraulic fracturing. The study concluded that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking water resources under some circumstances. Many other recent studies and reports have examined the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on the public and the environment. These or future studies could result in additional regulations, which could lead to operational burdens similar to those described above.. QEP's ability to produce oil and gas economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if it is unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for its drilling and completion operations or is unable to dispose of or recycle the water or other waste at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental rules. The hydraulic fracture stimulation process on which QEP depends to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. The availability of disposal wells with sufficient capacity to receive all of the water produced from QEP's wells may affect QEP's production. In some cases, QEP may need to obtain water from new sources and transport it to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs. QEP's inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in its operations, could adversely impact its operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on QEP's ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase QEP's operating costs or may cause QEP to delay, curtail or discontinue its exploration and development plans, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address induced seismicity could restrict QEP's drilling and production activities as well as QEP's ability to dispose of produced water gathered from such activities, which could have a material adverse effect on QEP's business. State and federal regulatory agencies have focused on a possible connection between the disposal of wastewater in underground injection wells and the increased occurrence of seismic activity in certain areas, and regulatory agencies at all levels are continuing to study the possible linkage between oil and natural gas activity and induced seismicity. For example, in 2015, the United States Geological Survey identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of seismic activity that may be attributable to fluid injection or oil and natural gas extraction activities. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in October 2014, the Railroad Commission of Texas published a new rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells that requires, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If the permittee or applicant fails to demonstrate that the produced water or other fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates the well is likely or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the agency may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well.. 43. QEP operates injection wells and utilizes injection wells owned by third parties to dispose of large volumes of waste water associated with its drilling, completion and production operations. QEP disposes of these volumes of produced water pursuant to permits issued to QEP by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements or prohibitions on operating certain facilities, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities. The adoption and implementation of any new laws or regulations or the issuance of any orders or imposition of any requirements that restrict QEP's ability to use hydraulic fracturing or dispose of produced water gathered from its drilling and production activities by limiting volumes, injection pressures or rates, or producing or disposal well locations, or requiring QEP to shut down disposal wells, could have a material adverse effect on QEP's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Climate change and climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and decreased demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Climate change, the costs that may be associated with its effects and the regulation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including increasing the costs to provide our products, reducing the demand for and consumption of our products (due to changes in both costs and weather patterns) and negatively impacting the economic health of the regions in which we operate, all of which can create financial risks. In addition, if restrictions on GHG emissions significantly increase our costs to produce oil and gas, or significantly decrease demand for our products, the value of our oil and gas reserves may decrease. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. In addition, legislative and regulatory responses related to GHG emissions and climate change may result in increased operating costs, delays in obtaining air pollution and other necessary permits for new or modified facilities and reduced demand for the oil, gas and NGL that QEP produces. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of climate change regulation under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and energy resource development. Federal, state and local governments may also pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, or banning the use of gasoline or diesel powered vehicles, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Further, state and local governments may pursue litigation against producers for damages allegedly resulting from climate change, similar to the lawsuits filed by the cities of San Francisco and Oakland, California, in September 2017, and the lawsuit filed by the City of New York in January 2018 against Chevron Corp., ConocoPhillips, Co., ExxonMobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and BP p.l.c.. QEP's ability to access and develop new oil and gas reserves may also be restricted by climate change regulation, including GHG reporting and regulation.. Congress has previously considered but not adopted proposed legislation aimed at reducing GHG emissions. The EPA has adopted final regulations under the Clean Air Act for the measurement and reporting of GHG emitted from certain large facilities and, as discussed above, has adopted additional regulations at 40 C.F.R Part 60, Subparts OOOO and OOOOa, to include additional requirements to reduce methane and volatile organic compound emissions from oil and natural gas facilities. The status of Subpart OOOOa is uncertain given the ongoing litigation, administrative reconsideration and proposed action to stay portions of those rules. Additionally, in June 2014, the United States Supreme Court upheld a portion of EPA's GHG stationary source permitting program in Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA, but also invalidated a portion of it. The Court's holding does not prevent states from considering and adopting state-only major source permitting requirements based solely on GHG emission levels. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties for non-compliance with air permits or other requirements of the Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations to which QEP's operations are subject.. 44. In December 2015, over 190 countries, including the U.S., reached an agreement in Paris (COP 21) to reduce global emissions of GHG (the Paris Agreement). The Paris Agreement provides for the cutting of carbon emissions every five years, beginning in 2023, and sets a goal of keeping global warming to a maximum limit of two degrees Celsius and a target limit of 1.5 degrees Celsius greater than pre-industrial levels. In June 2017, President Trump announced that the U.S. would initiate the formal process to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Withdrawal will take a few years to implement due to the Paris Agreement's legal structure and language. The current state of development of ongoing international climate initiatives and any related domestic actions make it difficult to assess the timing or effect on our operations or to predict with certainty the future costs that we may incur in order to comply with future international treaties or domestic regulations. Following the initiation of the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, state and local regulation efforts are expected to increase. In several of the states in which QEP operates the regulatory authorities are considering various GHG registration and reduction programs, including methane leak detection monitoring and repair requirements specific to oil and gas facilities. For example, in January 2018, UDEQ adopted additional rules that impose leak detection and repair requirements at certain oil and gas facilities in Utah. In addition, the failure of the federal government to address climate change concerns, including, for example, a protracted delay by President Trump's administration in determining its own carbon-cost estimate (i.e., the estimate of how much carbon pollution costs society via climate damages) after rejecting the $40 per ton of carbon dioxide equivalent estimate of the Obama administration, could empower ENGOs to pursue legal challenges to oil and gas drilling and pipeline projects.. Moreover, some experts believe climate change poses potential physical risks, including an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in precipitation and extreme weather events. In addition, warmer winters as a result of global warming could also decrease demand for natural gas. To the extent that such unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by climate change or otherwise, our operations may be adversely affected to a greater degree than we have previously experienced, including increased delays and costs. However, the uncertain nature of changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and severity) and the long period of time over which any changes would take place make any estimations of future financial risk to our operations caused by these potential physical risks of climate change unreliable.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities. Shareholders may from time to time attempt to effect changes, engage in proxy solicitations or advance shareholder proposals. Activist shareholders may make strategic proposals, suggestions or requested changes concerning our operations, strategy, management, assets or other matters. Responding to actions by activist shareholders could be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of our management and employees. Such activities could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan or realize long-term value from our assets. The perceived uncertainties as to our future direction could also make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and affect the market price and volatility of our securities.. QEP relies on highly skilled personnel and, if QEP is unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or transfer knowledge from retiring personnel, QEP's operations may be negatively impacted. QEP's performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. QEP's future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. Competition in the oil and gas industry for qualified employees is intense. QEP's continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. QEP does not have employment agreements with or maintain key-man insurance for its key management personnel. The loss of services of one or more of its key management personnel could have a negative impact on QEP's financial condition and results of operations.. In certain areas of QEP's business, institutional knowledge resides with employees who have many years of service. As these employees retire, QEP may not be able to replace them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. QEP's efforts at knowledge transfer could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become unavailable to QEP and could negatively impact QEP's business.. General economic and other conditions could negatively impact QEP's operating results. QEP's operating results may also be negatively affected by changes in global economic conditions; availability and economic viability of oil and gas properties for sale or exploration; rate of inflation and interest rates; weather and natural disasters; changes in customers' credit ratings; competition from other forms of energy and other pipeline and storage facilities; effects of accounting policies issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and terrorist attacks or acts of war.. 45. The Company's pension plans are currently underfunded and may require large contributions, which may divert funds from other uses. QEP has a closed, qualified, defined-benefit pension plan (the Pension Plan), which covers 30 active and suspended participants, or 5%, of QEP's active employees and 184 participants who are retired or were terminated and vested. Effective January 1, 2016, the Pension Plan was frozen, such that employees do not earn additional defined benefits for future services. QEP also sponsors an unfunded, nonqualified Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the SERP). Over time, periods of declines in interest rates and pension asset values may result in a reduction in the funded status of the Company's pension plans. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, it is estimated that QEP's pension plans were underfunded by $29.5 million and $43.1 million, respectively. The underfunded status of QEP's pension plans may require that the Company make large contributions to such plans. QEP made cash contributions of $6.0 million and $7.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, to the Pension Plan and SERP and expects to make contributions of approximately $4.7 million to these pension plans in 2018. QEP cannot, however, predict whether changing economic conditions, the future performance of assets in the plans or other factors will require the Company to make contributions in excess of its current expectations, diverting funds QEP would otherwise apply to other uses.. QEP is exposed to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production, and processing activities. For example, QEP depends on digital technologies to interpret seismic data; manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering systems; conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation; and process and record financial and operating data. Pipelines, refineries, power stations and distribution points for both fuels and electricity are becoming more interconnected by computer systems. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. QEP's technologies, systems, networks, and those of its vendors, suppliers and other business partners may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of its business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. QEP does not maintain specialized insurance for possible losses resulting from a cyberattack on its assets that may shut down all or part of QEP's business. QEP's systems for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, QEP may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. While QEP has experienced cyberattacks, QEP is not aware of any material losses relating to cyberattacks; however, there is no assurance that QEP will not suffer such losses in the future. In addition, as cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, QEP may expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate or remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities.. QEP's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, even if an acquisition or merger may be in QEP shareholders' best interests. QEP's certificate of incorporation authorizes its Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. If QEP's Board of Directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire QEP. In addition, some provisions of QEP's certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of QEP, even if the transaction would be beneficial to QEP shareholders, including:. • a classified Board of Directors, with only approximately one-third of QEP's Board of Directors elected each year;. • advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations for elections to the Board of Directors to be acted upon at meetings of shareholders; and. • the inability of QEP shareholders to call special meetings or act by written consent.. In addition, Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between QEP and any holder of 15% or more of QEP's outstanding common stock. These provisions may deter hostile takeover attempts that could result in an acquisition of QEP that could have been financially beneficial to its shareholders.. 46. There may be future dilution of QEP's common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of QEP's common stock. QEP is not restricted from issuing additional shares of its common stock. In the future, QEP may issue shares of its common stock to raise cash for future capital expenditures, acquisitions or for general corporate purposes. QEP may also acquire interests in other companies by using a combination of cash and its common stock or just its common stock. QEP may also issue securities convertible into, exchangeable for or that represent the right to receive its common stock. Lastly, QEP issues stock options, restricted share awards, restricted share units and performance share units to its employees and directors as part of their compensation. Any of these events will dilute QEP shareholders' ownership interest in QEP and may reduce QEP's earnings per share and have an adverse effect on the price of QEP's common stock. In addition, sales of a substantial amount of QEP's common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of QEP's common stock."
