[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. Our operating results fluctuate.. Our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future.  If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted.  Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following:. • business, political and macroeconomic changes, including trade disputes and downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy;. • changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices;. • fluctuations in demand for our customers' products;. • our ability to forecast our customers' demand for our products accurately;. • the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner;. • our customers' and distributors' ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products;. • our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; and. • our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand.. It is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors.  If our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline.. 14. Table of Contents. Our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins as our industry's product life cycles are short and our customers' requirements change rapidly.. Our largest markets are characterized by short product life cycles and the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product requirements, driven by end user demand for more functionality, improved performance, lower costs and smaller form factors.  Our largest MP customers typically refresh some or all of their product portfolios by releasing new models each year.  In some cases, product designs we pursue represent either opportunities to substantially increase our revenue by winning a new design or a risk of a substantial revenue loss by losing an incumbent product in a customer's device.. Our future success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers.  The development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past.  Our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following:. • our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements;. • our ability to design products that meet our customers' cost, size and performance requirements;. • our ability to introduce new products that are competitive and can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance;. • acceptance of our new product designs;. • the availability of qualified product design engineers;. • our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers' needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and. • market acceptance of our customers' products and the duration of the life cycle of such products.. We may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet market or customer requirements.  Most major product design opportunities that we pursue involve multiple competitors, and we could lose a new product design opportunity to a competitor that offers a lower cost or equal or superior performing product.  If we are unsuccessful in achieving design wins against our competitors, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected.  Even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured.  Design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more.  Many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly reduce the revenue obtained from a design win.  In many cases, the average selling prices of our products decline over the products' lives, and we must achieve yield improvements, cost reductions and other productivity enhancements in order to maintain profitability.  The actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customers' products.. We depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue.. A substantial portion of our MP revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers.  Our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base.  Collectively, our two largest end customers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 44%, 45% and 49% of our revenue for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. We typically manufacture custom products on an exclusive basis for individual customers for a negotiated period of time.  Increasingly, the top-tier cellular handset OEMs are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities.  While the financial rewards and market affirmation from a design win for these premier customers are greater, competition for these projects is intense.  The concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors, both positive and negative, affecting those customers.  If demand for their products increases, our results are favorably impacted, while if demand for their products decreases, they may reduce their purchases of,. 15. Table of Contents. or stop purchasing, our products and our operating results would suffer.  Even if we achieve a design win, our customers can delay or cancel the release of a new handset for any reason.  Most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their devices with little notice to us and with little or no penalty.  The loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the United States government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed or if defense spending is reduced.. We receive a portion of our revenue from the United States government and from prime contractors on United States government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications.  These programs are subject to delays or cancellation.  Further, spending on defense and aerospace programs can vary significantly depending on funding from the United States government. We believe our government and defense and aerospace business has been negatively affected in the past by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending.  Reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We depend heavily on third parties.. We purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers.  We also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel.  The use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs.. Although our key suppliers commit to us to be compliant with applicable ISO 9001 and/or TS-16949 quality standards, we have experienced quality and reliability issues in the past with certain suppliers.  Quality or reliability issues in our supply chain could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations.. We face risks related to sales through distributors.. We sell a significant portion of our products through third party distributors.  We depend on these distributors to help us create end customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products.  We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue.  Our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited because our end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor due to advantages in the incumbent distributors' technical support and favorable business terms related to payments, discounts and stocking of acceptable inventory levels.  Using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks.  Other third parties may use one of our distributors to sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to the distributors to focus them on the sale of our products.  Our distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results.  Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws by our distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business.  Failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position.. We face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities.. We operate wafer fabrication facilities in Florida, North Carolina, Oregon and Texas.  We currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in China, Costa Rica, Germany and the U.S. to assemble and test our products.  We currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in China, Costa Rica and the U.S., and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in Asia to test our products.. A number of factors related to our facilities will affect our business and financial results, including the following:. • our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products;. 16. Table of Contents. • the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities;. • factory utilization rates;. • our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner;. • the availability of raw materials, the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing and tariffs imposed on raw materials, including substrates, gold, platinum and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and palladium;. • our manufacturing cycle times;. • our manufacturing yields;. • the political, regulatory and economic risks associated with our international manufacturing operations;. • potential violations by our international employees or third-party agents of international or U.S. laws relevant to foreign operations;. • our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel;. • our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations; and. • our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason.. Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs.. Our worldwide operations and business could be disrupted by natural disasters, industrial accidents, cybersecurity incidents, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions, public health issues, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other man-made disasters or catastrophic events.  We carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations.  However, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses.  Any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and could also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses are uninsured or exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions adversely impact our relationships with our customers.. If we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer.. Our products have unique designs and are fabricated using multiple semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex.  In many cases, our products are assembled in customized packages.  Many of our products consist of multiple components in a single module and feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity.  Our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability.  Our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain, including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields.  Defects in a single component in an assembled module product can impact the yield for the entire module, which means the adverse economic impacts of an individual defect can be multiplied many times over if we fail to discover the defect before the module is assembled.  Due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products.. Our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products.  The number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including:. • design errors;. 17. Table of Contents. • defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer);. • minute impurities in materials used;. • contamination of the manufacturing environment;. • equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes;. • losses from broken wafers or other human error; and. • defects in packaging.. We constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields.  Typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected.. Costs of product defects and deviations from required specifications could include the following:. •  writing off the value of inventory;. • disposing of products that cannot be fixed;. • recalling products that have been shipped;. • providing product replacements or modifications;. • direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling their products due to defects in our products; and. • defending against litigation.. These costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins.  Our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results.. We are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products.. In order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest end customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers.  However, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer.  As a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales.  Because demand for our products may not materialize, or may be lower than expected, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs.  These inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory.  If product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results.. 18. Table of Contents. We sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business.. Platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for OEMs and ODMs that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products.  A platform provider may own or control IP that gives it a strong market position for its baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of RF products for these standards.  Platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide RF products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other RF companies to have our products included in the platform provider's system reference design.  This market dynamic has evolved in recent years as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own RF technologies and components.. Platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor.  Accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors.  Because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive RF technologies or their own RF solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with OEMs and ODMs that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance.  This requires us to work more closely with OEMs and ODMs to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices.. Our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to risks from international sales and operations.. We operate globally with sales offices and R&D activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in multiple countries, and some of our business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas.  As a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the U.S., including:. • global and local economic and political conditions;. • currency controls and fluctuations;. • tariff, trade (including import/export regulations) and other related restrictions and regulations;. • labor market conditions and workers' rights affecting our transportation or manufacturing arrangements or those of our customers or suppliers;. • disruptions of capital and trading markets;. • occurrences of geopolitical crises such as terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability, which may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications and result in reduced demand for our products;. • compliance with laws and regulations that differ among jurisdictions, including those covering taxes, intellectual property ownership and infringement, imports and exports, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, antitrust and competition, data privacy, and environment, health, and safety; and. • pandemics and similar major health concerns, which could adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns.. Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 82% of our revenue in fiscal 2018, of which approximately 52% and 19% were attributable to sales to customers located in China and Taiwan, respectively.  We expect that revenue from international sales to China and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue.  Any weakness in the Chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business.  The. 19. Table of Contents. imposition by the U.S. of tariffs on goods imported from China and other government actions that restrict our ability to sell our products to Chinese customers, and countermeasures imposed by China in response, could directly or indirectly adversely impact our manufacturing costs and the sales of our products in China and other markets.. As a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates.  Our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results.  The functional currency for most of our international operations is the U.S. dollar.  We have foreign operations in Asia, Europe and Costa Rica and Europe, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the U.S.  Our international revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars.  Operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the U.S. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the Costa Rican Colon, Euro, Pound Sterling, Renminbi and Singapore Dollar.  If the U.S. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into U.S. dollars.. Economic regulation in China could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in China.  In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation.  In response to these factors, the Chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and contain inflation, including measures designed to restrict credit or to control prices.  Such actions in the future, as well as other changes in Chinese laws and regulations, could increase the cost of doing business in China or decrease the demand for our products in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies.. We compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling RF solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules.  In addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest end customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products.  Increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs.. Many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with OEMs, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established IP rights and substantial technological capabilities.  The semiconductor industry has experienced increased industry consolidation over the last several years, a trend we expect to continue.  Many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors.. 20. Table of Contents. Industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. It is difficult to predict future demand for our products, which makes it difficult to estimate future requirements for production capacity.  Capacity expansion projects have long lead times and require capital commitments based on forecasted product trends and demand well in advance of production orders from customers.  In recent years, we have made significant capital investments to expand our BAW, SAW and TC-SAW filter capacity to address forecasted future demand patterns.. In the past, capacity additions by us and our competitors sometimes exceeded demand requirements, leading to overcapacity situations.  Fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products also lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market.. As many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods in which we underutilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of overcapacity.  If the demand for our products is not consistent with our expectations, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on average selling prices, our gross margin and other operating results.  If demand for our products experiences a prolonged decrease, we may be required to write down our long-lived assets or shorten the useful lives of underutilized assets and accelerate depreciation, which would increase our expenses.. We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing.. On December 5, 2017, we entered into a five-year unsecured senior credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and L/C issuer, and a syndicate of lenders (the \"Credit Agreement\").  The Credit Agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility which includes a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans.  We may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility or the Term Loan (as defined below) be increased by an amount not to exceed $300.0 million.  The revolving credit facility is available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and for other corporate purposes.  This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds.  We cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, including our Term Loan and Senior Notes, or to fund capital expenditures and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our debt obligations and financing requirements, which may not be successful or on terms favorable to us.. The Credit Agreement also includes a $400.0 million senior delayed draw term loan (the \"Term Loan\"), of which $100.0 million was funded at closing and then subsequently repaid during March 2018.  At our discretion, we may draw down the remaining balance in up to two advances prior to June 5, 2018.. In November 2015, we issued $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% Senior Notes due 2023 (the \"2023 Notes\") and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2025 (the \"2025 Notes\" and together with the 2023 Notes, the \"Notes\").  The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of November 19, 2015 (the \"Indenture\").  In September 2016, we completed an exchange offer, in which all of the 2023 Notes and substantially all of the 2025 Notes were exchanged for new notes that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\").  Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the Term Loan and the Notes, and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  We cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the Term Loan and the Notes.  If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may face liquidity issues and be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt, including the Term Loan and the Notes.  These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and other obligations.  Additionally, the agreements governing our Credit Agreement and the Indenture governing the Notes limit the use of the proceeds. 21. Table of Contents. from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations.  Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. The agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. The Credit Agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the Term Loan and the Indenture governing the Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to:. • incur additional debt;. • pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. • make loans and investments;. • sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets;. • incur or permit to exist certain liens;. • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. • consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. These covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete.  In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants.  Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility.  If we violate covenants under the Credit Agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving credit facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders.  Because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt.  If our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it.  Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.  If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.. The price of our common stock may be volatile.. The price of our common stock, which is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations.  In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur.  Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include:. • general market and economic and political conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry;. • actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results;. • differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. 22. Table of Contents. • changes in recommendations by securities analysts;. • operations and stock performance of competitors and major customers;. • accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill and restructuring;. • significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, capital commitments, or new products announced by us or by our competitors;. • sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors;. • repurchases of our common stock;. • recruitment or departure of key personnel; and. • loss of key customers.. We cannot assure you that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.  In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance.. Our stock repurchases may fluctuate.. The amount and timing of our stock repurchases may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including our priorities for the use of our cash for other purposes, such as capital spending and acquisitions, restrictions under securities laws and because of changes in our cash flows, tax laws and the market price of our common stock.. We may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders' ownership, cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities or adversely affect our results of operations.. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions and strategic investments that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities.  In the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities.  Such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock.  Acquisitions and strategic investments also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including:. • unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements;. • acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles;. • the potential loss of key employees from a company we acquire or in which we invest;. • diversion of management's attention from our business;. • dissynergies or other harm to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. • losses or impairment of investments from unsuccessful research and development by companies in which we invest;. • failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; and. • unrealized expected synergies.. 23. Table of Contents. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations.. In order to compete effectively, we must:. • hire and retain qualified employees;. • continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions;. • expand our presence in international locations and adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations; and. • train and motivate our employee base.. Our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, R&D and administrative support.  We do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees.  We must also continue to attract qualified personnel.  The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in RF engineering, integrated circuit and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited.  In addition, existing or new immigration laws, policies or regulations in the U.S. may limit the pool of available talent.  Travels bans, difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel could make it more difficult to effectively manage our international operations, collaborate as a global company or service our international customer base.  We cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain skilled personnel in the future, which could harm our business and our results of operations.. We rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our intellectual property by third parties.. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights.  We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold.  Further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors.  Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents.. The laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.  This increases the possibility of piracy of our technology and products.  Although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology.  Additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours.. We may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights.  Generally, intellectual property litigation is both expensive and unpredictable.  Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel and have a material, adverse effect on our business.. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights.. Our operating results may be adversely affected if third parties were to assert claims that our products infringed their patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights.  Such assertions could lead to expensive and unpredictable litigation, diverting the attention of management and technical personnel.  An unsuccessful result in any such litigation could have adverse effects on our business, which may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties.  In addition, if one of our customers or another supplier to one of our customers were found to be infringing on third-party intellectual property rights, such finding could adversely affect the demand for our products.. 24. Table of Contents. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our proprietary information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. We rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities to provide us with competitive advantages.  We protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other third parties.  We also design our computer networks and implement various procedures to restrict unauthorized access to our proprietary information.. We face internal and external data security threats. Current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to copy, obtain, or misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business.  Like others, we are also subject to significant system or network disruptions from numerous causes, including computer viruses and other cyber-attacks, facility access issues, new system implementations and energy blackouts.. Security breaches, computer malware, phishing, spoofing, and other cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. While we defend against these threats on a daily basis, we do not believe that such attacks to date have caused us any material damage.  Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate all of these techniques.  As a result, our and our customers' proprietary information may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.  Any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, or cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident.  We routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the security of our information technology systems.  We cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber-attack or network disruptions.. The costs related to cyber-attacks or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others.  Occurrence of any of the events described above could result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our R&D efforts or our IP.  Moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products, product development delays, or diversion of the attention of management and key information technology and other resources, or otherwise adversely affect our internal operations and reputation or degrade our financial results and stock price.. We may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data by or about our employees, customers or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings.. In the ordinary course of our business, we have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information regarding our employees and others that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations.  The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business, or by our third party service providers, including business process software applications providers and other vendors that have access to sensitive data, could result in damage to our reputation, disruption of our business activities, significantly increased business and security costs or costs related to defending legal claims.. Global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment.  For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which requires companies to meet new requirements beginning in May 2018 regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves.  Failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue.  In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices.  Complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  Further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged non-compliant activity.  Finally, even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-. 25. Table of Contents. related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others.. We are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability.. From time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expense. We may also be exposed to such claims as a result of any acquisition we may undertake in the future.  Although we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase product liability insurance, we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters and our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of such claims.. Product liability insurance is subject to significant deductibles and such insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect against all claims.  If one of our customers recalls a product containing one of our devices, we may incur significant costs and expenses, including replacement costs, direct and indirect product recall-related costs, diversion of technical and other resources and reputational harm.  Our customer contracts typically contain warranty and indemnification provisions, and in certain cases may also contain liquidated damages provisions, relating to product quality issues.  The potential liabilities associated with such provisions are significant, and in some cases, including in agreements with some of our largest end customers, are potentially unlimited.  Any such liabilities may greatly exceed any revenue we receive from sale of the relevant products.  Costs, payments or damages incurred or paid by us in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to risks associated with environmental, health and safety regulations and climate change.. We are subject to a broad array of U.S. and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.  These laws and regulations include those related to the use, transportation, storage, handling, emission, discharge and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials used in our manufacturing, assembly and testing processes.  Our failure to comply with any of these existing or future laws or regulations could result in:. • regulatory penalties and fines;. • legal liabilities, including financial responsibility for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated;. • expenses to secure required permits and governmental approvals;. • reputational damage;. • suspension or curtailment of our manufacturing, assembly and test processes; and. • increased costs to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment or to modify our equipment, facilities or manufacturing processes to bring them into compliance with applicable laws and regulations.. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also impact our product designs and limit or restrict the materials or components that are included in our products.  In addition, many of our largest end customers require us to comply with corporate social responsibility policies, which often include employment, health, safety, environmental and other requirements that exceed applicable legal requirements.  Compliance with these policies increases our operating expenses and non-compliance can adversely affect customer relationships and harm our business.. New climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or procure substitute raw materials that may cost more or be more difficult to procure. In addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in increased costs for us and our suppliers. Various jurisdictions are developing other climate change-based regulations that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. Future compliance with these laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 26. Table of Contents. Compliance with regulations regarding the use of \"conflict minerals\" could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.. Regulations in the U.S. currently require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources.  The verification and reporting requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals that are used in the manufacture of our products.  We have incurred costs and expect to incur additional costs associated with complying with these requirements.  Additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement.  We may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently make any required determination that the metals used in our products are conflict free.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of Qorvo that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.  These provisions include:. • granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise;. • the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors;. • the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. • establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and. • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent.. In addition, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware contains provisions that regulate \"business combinations\" between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, except under certain circumstances.  These provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control.. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context, and may also make it more difficult for a third party to replace directors on our board of directors.  Further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. Our operating results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies.. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in Part II, Item 7 of this report).  Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could significantly affect our results of operations.. Decisions we make about the scope of our future operations could affect our future financial results.. From time to time, changes in the business environment have led us to change the scope of our operations or business, which has resulted in restructuring and asset impairment charges, and this could occur in the future.  The. 27. Table of Contents. amount and timing of such charges can be difficult to predict.  Factors that contribute to the amount and timing of such charges include:. • the timing and execution of plans and programs that are subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils;. • changes in assumptions related to severance and post-retirement costs;. • the timing of future divestitures and the amount and type of proceeds realized from such divestitures; and. • changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets and goodwill.. Changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations.. We are subject to taxation in China, Germany, Singapore, the U.S. and numerous other foreign taxing jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as it is impacted by a number of factors, including the following:. • changes in our overall profitability and the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates;. • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including those described in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this report;. • changes in the valuation of either our gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities;. • adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;. • changes in expenses not deductible for tax purposes;. • changes in available tax credits;. • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and. • a future decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided country withholding taxes incurred upon repatriation.. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods.. Changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in Costa Rica and Singapore would have an adverse impact on our operating results.. Our subsidiaries in Costa Rica and Singapore have been granted tax holidays that effectively minimize our tax expense and that are expected to be effective through March 2024 and December 2021, respectively.  In their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations.  As part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays.  In February 2017, Singapore enacted legislation that will exclude from our existing Development and Expansion Incentive grant the benefit of the reduced tax rate for Intellectual Property income earned after June 30, 2021.  Future changes in the status of either tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years.. The impact of new U.S. tax legislation is uncertain and could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), which includes a number of changes to U.S. tax laws that impact us, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings.. 28. Table of Contents. Based on our current analysis of the changes enacted by the Tax Act, it will continue to have a significant impact on our results of operations.. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required under U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced.  The United States Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our initial interpretation.  As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act, review all information, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may adjust the initial provisional amounts that we have recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Base Erosion and Profit Shifting initiative on tax policy and enacted laws in the countries in which we operate could increase our tax obligations.. Many countries are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations and action plan, which aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer pricing documentation rules, and nexus-based tax incentive practices.  If these changes are adopted by countries in which we do business, our tax obligations in these countries could increase.  Furthermore, as a result of the heightened scrutiny of corporate taxation policies, prior decisions by tax authorities regarding treatments and positions of corporate income taxes could be subject to enforcement activities, and legislative investigation and inquiry, which could also result in changes in tax policies or prior tax rulings.  Any such changes in policies or rulings may also increase our effective tax rate or result in the taxes we previously paid being subject to change, which may harm our financial position and results of operations."
