[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risk and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. If we fail to develop and introduce new or enhanced Wi-Fi solutions to meet the requirements of our target markets on a timely basis, our ability to retain and attract customers could be impaired and our competitive position could be harmed.. We are largely dependent on sales of leading-edge, high-performance Wi-Fi solutions. The markets we target with our solutions are characterized by rapidly changing technology, changing customer and service provider needs, evolving industry standards, intense competition and frequent introductions of new products. To succeed, we must effectively anticipate customer and service provider requirements and respond to these requirements on a timely basis. For example, we were the first to announce an 802.11ac 8x8 product, our QSR-10G product, in September 2015. We also announced new products based on the draft 802.11ax standard in October 2016 and January 2017. If we fail to develop new Wi-Fi solutions or enhancements to our existing solutions that offer increased features and performance in a cost-effective manner, or if our customers or service providers do not believe that our solutions have compelling technological advantages, our business could be adversely affected. We must also successfully manage the transition from older solutions to new or enhanced solutions to minimize disruptions in our business.  In addition, if our competitors introduce new products that outperform our solutions or provide similar performance at lower prices, we may lose market share or be required to reduce our prices. For example, in February 2017, Qualcomm announced a new 8x8 product based on the draft 802.11ax standard that may compete with our previously announced product. In addition, in August 2017, Broadcom announced new 4x4 Wi-Fi connectivity solutions based on the draft 802.11ax standard. We expect our competitors will also introduce new products based on new standards and other next generation technologies in the future. Our failure to accurately predict market needs or timely develop Wi-Fi solutions that address market needs could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The complexity of our solutions could result in unforeseen design and development delays or expenditures.. Developing our Wi-Fi solutions is expensive, complex and time-consuming, and involves uncertainties. We must often make significant investments in product roadmaps, design and development far in advance of established market needs and may not be able to consistently and accurately predict what those actual needs will be in the future. Each phase in the development of our solutions presents serious risks of failure, rework or delay, any one of which could impact the timing and cost-effective development of such solutions and could jeopardize customer acceptance of the solutions. Product development efforts may last two years or longer, and require significant investments of time, third-party development costs, prototypes and sample materials, as well as sales and marketing resources and expenses, which will not be recouped if the product launch is unsuccessful. We. -. 13. -. Table of Contents. also have limited resources and may not be able to develop alternative designs or address a variety of differing market requirements in parallel. Our failure to adequately address any such delays in a cost-effective manner could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, as is common in our industry, our Wi-Fi solutions may contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience defects, errors and bugs. For example, in 2015, in response to a defect we identified, we were required to make a revision to one of our semiconductors, which resulted in a four-month delay in product introduction. Product defects, errors or bugs could affect the performance of our products resulting in reliability, quality or compatibility problems, cause reduced manufacturing yields, result in excess or obsolete inventory, and delay the development or shipments of new solutions or new versions of our solutions. As a result, our reputation may be damaged and the market adoption of our Wi-Fi solutions could be adversely affected. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced shipment of a new solution, we may incur significant additional development costs to redesign, recall, repair or replace the defective solution. These problems may also trigger warranty or contractual indemnity claims against us by our customers or others, and our reputation and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our solutions must also successfully operate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a customer product in which our solution is used, it may be difficult to identify the source of these problems. The products of our customers that use our solutions can also be very complex, which can increase the possibility of design, development or production issues. The occurrence of hardware and software errors, whether or not caused by our solutions, could result in the delay or loss of market adoption of our solutions, and therefore delay our ability to recognize revenue from sales, and any necessary repairs may cause us to incur significant expenses. The occurrence of any such problems could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We depend on a limited number of customers and service providers for a significant portion of our revenue.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of OEMs and ODMs, and we anticipate that we will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. In 2017, six customers accounted for approximately 50% of our revenue. In addition, substantially all of our revenue to date has been generated by sales of our solutions to OEMs and ODMs serving the service provider market for home networking. Based on sell-through information provided to us by our OEM and ODM customers, we estimate that the two largest service providers, which are both based in the United States, represented on a combined basis approximately 33% of our revenue in 2017. The demand from these OEM and ODM customers and, their service provider customers, is subject to fluctuations based on a variety of factors affecting the service provider industry and their related businesses. The loss of a key customer or service provider, or a reduction in sales to any key customer or service provider could negatively impact our revenue, cause us to have excess or obsolete inventory, and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have an accumulated deficit and have incurred net losses in the past, and we may incur net losses in the future.. We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur net losses in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2017, January 1, 2017, and December 27, 2015, we generated a net income of $34.4 million and incurred net losses of $1.9 million and $7.0 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $127.2 million. We expect to continue to make significant investments related to the development of our Wi-Fi solutions and the expansion of our business, including investments to support our research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative functions. As a public company, we also incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. If we fail to continue to grow our revenue or if our revenue growth is not sufficient to offset the growth of these anticipated expenses, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability, and our stock price could decline.. We face intense competition from a number of larger and more established companies and expect competition to increase in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our market share, revenue and results of operations.. Many of our competitors, including Broadcom, Intel Corporation, Marvell, MediaTek, and Qualcomm, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, as well as longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and more established customer relationships. In the future, we may also face competition from other new and emerging companies, including from companies in China.. -. 14. -. Table of Contents. Our competitors may be able to anticipate, influence or adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and standards and changes in customer and service provider requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities more readily and develop and expand their product offerings more quickly than we can. In addition, many of our larger competitors offer a broader range of products than we do, including non-Wi-Fi products. These competitors may be able to sell at lower margins, bundle additional products and features with their Wi-Fi products, leverage incumbent positions, or create closed platforms that discourage customers or service providers from purchasing our Wi-Fi solutions. This strategy may be particularly effective for customers and service providers who prefer the convenience of purchasing all of their Wi-Fi products from a single provider. If we are unable to maintain our competitive advantages through the delivery of superior solutions, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.. Consolidation in our industry or in a related industry that involves our customers, service providers, partners and competitors could disrupt our business.. There has been a significant amount of consolidation in our industry and related industries. Examples include consolidation among service providers, such as the acquisition of DIRECTV by AT&T in 2015; consolidation involving our customers, such as the acquisition of the Cisco video business by Technicolor in 2015 and the acquisition of Pace plc, by ARRIS Group, Inc., in 2016; consolidation involving our partners, such as the acquisition of Freescale Semiconductor by NXP Semiconductors in 2015; and consolidation involving our competitors, such as the acquisition of Broadcom by Avago Technologies in 2016, the pending acquisition of NXP Semiconductors by Qualcomm announced in October 2016 and the pending acquisition of Cavium Inc. by Marvell announced in November 2017. In addition, also in November 2017, Broadcom announced an unsolicited offer to acquire Qualcomm.. Consolidation among our customers, service providers, competitors and other industry related third parties, including during the period between the announcement and closing of acquisitions when the transaction may be undergoing regulatory scrutiny and otherwise seeking to satisfy required closing conditions, can create significant industry uncertainty, which could impact demand for our Wi-Fi solutions and could cause delays in the purchase of our Wi-Fi solutions or the loss of business. For example, in 2015 our two largest service providers consolidated, resulting in the cancellation of previously submitted purchase orders, which adversely impacted our revenue for several quarters. Consolidation among our customers, service providers, competitors and other industry related third parties could adversely affect the competitive landscape and industry dynamics, including causing increased pricing pressure, intensifying the focus of our competitors on certain markets or customers that could cause us to lose market share or customers, and enabling our competitors to leverage complementary products or technologies of the combined company. Accordingly, any industry consolidation could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production, which could harm our business.. Our customers typically do not provide us with firm, long-term purchase commitments. Substantially all of our sales to date have been made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay their purchases of our solutions with little or no notice to us. As a result, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand is limited. Any such cancellation of or decrease in purchase orders subjects us to a number of risks, including unanticipated revenue shortfalls, loss of volume-based wafer rebates from our third-party foundry and excess or obsolete inventory.. We may face claims of intellectual property infringement, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend or settle and, if adversely adjudicated, could harm our business.. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. We have received communications from third parties, including non-practicing entities, alleging our infringement of their patents, and we may receive additional claims of infringement in the future. For example, in October 2016, a third party filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging infringement by us of nine expired United States patents. While this matter was favorably settled by us for an immaterial amount, we cannot predict the results of other future litigation with other third parties. See Note 6, \"Commitments and Contingencies\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, our customers and service providers may become subject to litigation or receive communications regarding alleged infringement of their products that implicate our Wi-Fi solutions. We have certain contractual obligations to defend and indemnify our customers and other third parties from damages and costs which may arise in connection with any such infringement. -. 15. -. Table of Contents. claims. We or our customers may be required to obtain licenses for such patents, which could require us to pay royalties. Any lawsuits could subject us to significant liability for damages, invalidate our proprietary rights and harm our business and our ability to compete. Any litigation, regardless of success or merit, could cause us to incur substantial expenses, reduce our sales and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. If we receive an adverse result in any litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, cease sale of products or licensing of our technology, expend significant resources to redesign our solutions, develop alternative technology or discontinue the use of processes requiring the relevant technology.. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to compete effectively or defend ourselves from litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technologies and know-how. As of December 31, 2017, we had 57 issued patents in the United States and five foreign counterpart patents issued in Taiwan. The rights granted to us may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage. For example, any patent claims we make may be deemed insufficient to cover the third party's product or technology or the patent could be opposed, contested, circumvented, designed around or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings. The failure of any of our patents to adequately protect our technology could make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies. Our foreign patent protection is not as comprehensive as our United States patent protection. As a result, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property in some countries where our solutions are sold or may be sold in the future. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may be challenging or may not be available. Furthermore, changes to the patent laws in the United States and other jurisdictions could also diminish the value of our patents and patent applications or narrow the scope of our patent protection.. We cannot ensure that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property or the reverse engineering of our technology. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on confidential proprietary information, including trade secrets and know-how, to develop and maintain our competitive position. Any disclosure or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate our proprietary information, thus eroding our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary information in part by confidentiality agreements with our employees, contractors, customers, partners and other third parties. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information; however, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Detecting and monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property can be difficult and costly. It is possible that unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur without our knowledge. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could adversely impact our ability to maintain a competitive advantage in our markets, thus harming our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may in the future need to initiate infringement claims or litigation to try to protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation, whether we are a plaintiff or a defendant, can be very expensive and time-consuming and may divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel without resulting in a favorable outcome. Further, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to defending intellectual property infringement claims and to enforcing their intellectual property rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be harmed.. We may have difficulty accurately predicting our future revenue, cost of revenue, operating expense, working capital, and capital investments.. We were incorporated in 2005 and only began shipments of our Wi-Fi solutions in 2010. As a result, we have a limited operating history from which to predict future operating results. This limited operating history, combined with the rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our Wi-Fi solutions, substantial uncertainty concerning how these markets may develop and other factors beyond our control, limit our ability to accurately forecast our future revenue, cost of revenue, operating expense, working capital, and capital investments. Additionally, if we are unable to accurately forecast customer demand or service provider deployments in a timely manner, we may not build enough supply or maintain enough inventory, which could lead to delays in product shipments and lost sales opportunities, as well as cause our customers to identify alternative sources. -. 16. -. Table of Contents. of supply. Alternatively, we may accumulate excess or obsolete inventory. Any of these factors could harm our margins, increase our write-offs due to product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. If our revenue does not increase as anticipated, we could incur significant losses to the extent we are unable to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in future revenue.  Any failure to accurately predict our future operating results could cause us to miss our financial projections and adversely affect the price of our common stock.. If we are unable to effectively manage any future growth, we may not be able to execute our business plan and our results of operations could suffer.. We have expanded our operations significantly since our inception in 2005 and anticipate that further expansion will be required to achieve our business objectives. For example, we grew from 219 employees as of December 27, 2015 to 380 employees as of December 31, 2017, and expect our headcount to continue to grow as we scale our business. The growth and expansion of our business have placed and will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operations and financial resources. We expect that any future growth will also add complexity to, and require effective coordination throughout, our organization.. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our operating and administrative systems and controls. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems and controls in a timely or efficient manner, which could result in operating inefficiencies and could cause our costs to increase more than planned. If we are unable to effectively manage our future growth, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.. We rely on a limited number of third-party contractors and suppliers in connection with the design and manufacture of certain parts of our solutions. The failed performance or loss of any of these third parties may adversely impact our business.. We currently depend on a single foundry, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (\"TSMC\"), for the supply of our mask-sets and for the fabrication of our wafers. We also depend on a limited number of sources in connection with the design, development, testing and assembly of our solutions and components thereof. We currently do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our third-party contractors or suppliers, and we typically negotiate pricing separately for each purchase order. Therefore, our contractors and suppliers are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. Sufficient capacity at our third-party foundry or the third-party contractors we rely on for assembly and testing may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. In addition, we rely on intellectual property rights and software development tools from third-parties such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation, and Synopsys, Inc., to support the design, development, simulation and verification of new solutions or enhancement to existing solutions. If licenses to such technologies are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, or such products become unavailable for any other reason, and we cannot otherwise integrate such technologies, our solutions or our customers' products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. In such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop or acquire substitute technologies to deliver competitive products.. If we lose any of our single source or limited source contractors or suppliers, we could be required to transition to a new third party, which could increase our costs, result in delays in the manufacture and delivery of our solutions, require a redesign of our solutions to transition to alternative sources, or cause us to carry excess, obsolete or insufficient inventory. In addition, if these contractors or suppliers fail to produce and deliver our solutions according to required specifications, quantity, quality, cost and time requirements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer.. Our results of operations are likely to vary significantly from period to period, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Our results of operations have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect such results to continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control and may be difficult to predict, including:. • the fluctuations in demand for high-performance Wi-Fi products in general;. • the inherent complexity, length and associated unpredictability of the sales cycles for our Wi-Fi solutions;. • changing market conditions and competitive dynamics of our markets, including new entrants and current and potential customer or service provider consolidation;. -. 17. -. Table of Contents. • timing of introductions of new products by our customers and service providers and our ability to secure design wins related to such products;. • changes to or inaccurate demand forecasts from our customers and service providers;. • delays in deployment schedules or program cancellations by service providers, which can result in delays or cancellations of purchases by our customers;. • the timing and amount of purchase orders, especially from significant customers;. • reductions in or cancellations of purchase orders by our customers, including with little or no notice;. • changes in the mix of our sales in the service provider market versus retail, enterprise or consumer electronics end markets and among different customers;. • declines in average selling prices (\"ASPs\") and the extent to which the impact of such declines is offset by increased sales volume or decreased manufacturing and other costs;. • changes in manufacturing costs, including wafer fabrication, testing and assembly costs, manufacturing yields and product quality and reliability;. • our ability to develop, introduce and ship new Wi-Fi solutions in a timely manner and anticipate future market demands that meet our customers' requirements;. • the timing and amount of tape-out costs;. • timing of headcount adjustments;. • the timing and amount of litigation expense or settlement of any litigation or other disputes;. • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to material changes in stock compensation expense;. • the impact and timing of taxes or changes in tax law; and. • our ability to derive benefits from our investments in research, development, sales, marketing, and other activities.. In addition, changes in general economic or political conditions in the United States or other regions could adversely affect our business. For example, the current administration under President Donald Trump has indicated that it may propose significant changes with respect to a variety of issues, including trade agreements among nations, import and export regulations, tariffs and customs duties, foreign relations, immigration laws, tax laws and corporate governance laws, that could have a positive or negative impact on our business.. The effects of the risk factors noted herein could result in large fluctuations and unpredictability in our quarterly and annual results of operations. Therefore, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance.. If we fail to successfully address additional Wi-Fi markets, our revenue growth and financial condition could be harmed.. Currently, we sell most of our Wi-Fi solutions to OEMs and ODMs that target the service provider market for home networking. Our success will depend in part on our ability to expand beyond the service provider market to other Wi-Fi markets, including the enterprise and consumer electronics markets, as well as grow our market share in the retail market. These other markets have separate and unique requirements that may not be directly addressed by our current Wi-Fi solutions, including different specifications, performance requirements and product support needs. For example, our current Wi-Fi solutions may not be well suited for certain market opportunities and may require significant new functionality or features. Therefore, meeting the technical requirements and securing design wins with customers targeting these markets will require a substantial investment of our time and resources. We may also face challenges and delays in accurately understanding the specific needs of new markets, which in turn may impair our ability to develop the customer and partner relationships necessary to be successful in such markets. If any of these markets do not develop as we currently anticipate or if we are unable to penetrate them successfully, our growth opportunities could be harmed and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. -. 18. -. Table of Contents. If we fail to successfully leverage our engineering expertise to penetrate markets beyond Wi-Fi, our long-term revenue growth and financial condition could be harmed.. Our future growth will depend in part on our ability to leverage our engineering expertise in wireless and communications to address other markets beyond Wi-Fi. We have historically focused on high-performance Wi-Fi solutions, and may not be successful in identifying or implementing strategies to penetrate and sustain growth in new markets. If we are unable to develop solutions that are applicable beyond the Wi-Fi market, or to manage the expansion and growth of our business in such markets, our long-term revenue growth and financial condition could be harmed.. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified and key personnel, particularly our engineering personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively.. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled management, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. Each of our employees is an at-will employee. The loss of any key employees or the inability to attract, train or retain qualified personnel, particularly our engineering personnel, could harm our business. For example, if any of these individuals were to leave unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity during the search for any such successor and while any successor is integrated into our business and operations.. Our key engineering personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of technical and engineering personnel to support our anticipated growth. In addition, any changes to immigration laws, or uncertainty regarding potential changes, could impact our ability to hire technical and engineering personnel on a timely basis. The competition for qualified engineering personnel in our industry is very intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled personnel.. Changes to industry standards and government requirements relevant to our solutions and markets could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our customers adopt new or competing industry standards with which our solutions are not compatible, our existing solutions would become less desirable and our revenue and results of operations would suffer.  In addition, changes in government-imposed requirements, such as maximum power consumption regulations in Europe, can prevent our solutions from being shipped to certain countries if they do not meet such requirements.. To compete effectively in the Wi-Fi marketplace, we rely on industry partners to enable and complement our Wi-Fi solutions.. Our Wi-Fi solutions need to be integrated with other components and products, such as broadband processors, video system on chips and network processors, to serve the service provider markets. We have developed relationships with various third-party partners who enable and enhance our ability to bring our Wi-Fi solutions to various markets. These partners can provide critical support to enable us to reach certain markets and better address customer needs, including through the development of joint reference designs, the establishment of relationships with key customers, the validation of our Wi-Fi solutions, and the creation of bundled solutions to contend with competitive offerings. For example, when our Wi-Fi solution is designed into a product that also incorporates Intel or Broadcom network processors or other components, we depend on the ability of these partners to deliver their products in a timely fashion in order to meet shipping schedules. These partners may also be our competitors, which can negatively impact their willingness to collaborate with us, to support the integration of our solutions with their products, and to pursue joint sales and marketing efforts. In addition, in some cases it may be necessary to share competitively sensitive information with our partners that could enable our partners to compete more effectively against us or create uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights. If we are unable to continue to successfully develop or maintain these relationships, we may not be able to compete effectively and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our historical growth rate may not be indicative of future financial results.. You should not consider the growth rate in our revenue in recent periods as indicative of our future performance. For example, our revenue increased to $176.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2017 from $129.1 million in the year ended January 1, 2017, representing a 37% increase. We may not be able to grow at the same rate, or a higher rate, in future periods. -. 19. -. Table of Contents. compared to historical rates. Our revenue may be adversely impacted by various factors, including reduced or delayed demand for our Wi-Fi solutions, increased competition, a decrease in the size of our target markets, and the failure to capitalize on growth opportunities and other risk factors as described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Annual Report on Form 10K. Moreover, even if our revenue continues to increase in absolute terms, we expect that our revenue growth rate will decline over time as we mature as a public company.. We may pursue strategic acquisitions or partnerships which could require significant management attention, increase operating risk, dilute stockholder value, fail to achieve intended results, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may acquire other businesses, products or technologies, or partner with other businesses. Our ability to make and successfully integrate acquisitions is unproven. Even if we complete one or more acquisitions or strategic partnerships, we may not be able to strengthen our competitive position or realize the intended benefits of the acquisition or the strategic partnership in a timely manner, or at all. Any acquisitions or strategic partnerships may also be viewed negatively by our customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions we make could lead to difficulties in integrating technologies, products and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from their primary responsibilities, subject us to additional liabilities, increase our expense and adversely impact our business. Acquisitions may also reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, and could also result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, any of which could harm our business.. Our business is subject to disruption from hazards, natural disasters, terrorism, political unrest and other similar events, which could cause significant delays in the design, development, production or shipment of our solutions.. Our operations and those of our third-party contractors are vulnerable to interruptions caused by technical breakdowns, computer hardware and software malfunctions, software viruses, infrastructure failures, fires, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, wars, political unrest and disputes, Internet failures and other events beyond our control. For example, our sole foundry, TSMC, is located in Taiwan, which has been subject to a number of earthquakes, which has in the past impacted, and may in the future impact, the fabrication of our solutions. In addition, a significant portion of our engineering equipment, servers, storage and networking equipment, and other office equipment is located in our offices in the seismically active San Francisco Bay Area and Taiwan. Another example relates to rising political tensions and the potential for one or more countries to engage in hostilities with North Korea that could adversely affect various locations where we or our customers conduct business. If we suffer a significant hazard or outage to these offices and equipment, our business could experience disruption, which could harm our business and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The average selling prices for our Wi-Fi solutions could decrease over time, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and results of operations.. Products sold in our industry, including our Wi-Fi solutions, have often experienced a decrease in ASPs over time. We anticipate that the ASPs of our solutions may decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, customer expectations for price reduction, increased sales discounts, and new product introductions by our competitors. Our future results of operations may be harmed due to the decrease of our average selling prices.. Additionally, because we use a fabless semiconductor business model and rely on third-party contractors to fabricate, assemble, and test our chipset designs, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own manufacturing processes, and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margins. To maintain our current gross margins or increase our gross margins in the future, we must develop and introduce on a timely basis new solutions and enhancements to existing solutions; continually reduce the costs of manufacturing our solutions; and manage transitions from one solution to another in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to do so would likely cause our revenue and gross margins to decline, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. -. 20. -. Table of Contents. Our international operations expose us to additional business risks, and failure to manage these risks may adversely affect our business.. We have international operations in China, Russia, Taiwan, Australia, Japan, Singapore and parts of Europe, and we derive substantially all of our revenue from shipments delivered outside the United States, particularly in Asia. International operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:. •  differing technical standards, existing or future regulatory and certification requirements and required product features and functionality;. • challenges related to managing and integrating operations in new markets with different languages, cultures and political systems;. • heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain countries and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and lead to restatements of, and irregularities in, our financial statements or violations of law, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. • tariffs and trade barriers, export controls and trade and economic sanctions regulations and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our solutions in certain foreign markets, particularly in China and Russia;. • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing international operations;. • difficulties associated with enforcing and protecting intellectual property rights in some countries;. • requirements or preferences for in-country products, which could reduce demand for our products;. • difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, which may result in longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets;. • potentially adverse tax consequences, including taxes impacting our ability to repatriate profits to the United States;. • added legal compliance obligations and complexity;. • public health emergencies and other disasters, such as earthquakes and tsunamis, that are more common in certain regions;. • increased cost of terminating employees in some countries;. • the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • political and economic instability;. • war between countries; and. • acts of terrorism.. In 2012, we established our Russian subsidiary for research and development activities pursuant to a letter agreement with Joint Stock Company RUSNANO (\"RUSNANO\"). Pursuant to the letter agreement, as amended, we have obligations to periodically fund the subsidiary, and RUSNANO has certain rights regarding the governance and operation of the subsidiary.  While certain of these rights terminated upon completion of our initial public offering, RUSNANO may seek to continue to remain involved with our subsidiary, including its board of directors and use of our subsidiary's funds. We may incur specified penalties under the letter agreement if we fail to meet any applicable funding obligations, and may incur other unanticipated costs if we are required to restructure our operations in Russia.. We expect that we will continue to rely on our international operations, and our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other associated risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and adversely affect our business.. We could be subject to additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local income, sales and other taxes in the United States and foreign income taxes, withholding taxes and value-added and other transaction taxes in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and our worldwide provision for taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many. -. 21. -. Table of Contents. activities and transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our tax obligations and effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations, including those relating to income tax nexus, by challenges to our intercompany arrangements, valuation methodologies and transfer pricing, by recognizing tax losses or lower than anticipated earnings in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into legislation, which contains many significant changes to the U.S. tax laws. The Tax Act, among other changes, reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 34% to 21%, implements a modified territorial tax system that includes a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriation of previously untaxed accumulated earnings and profits of certain foreign subsidiaries, and creates new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. We are still evaluating the impact of the recently enacted Tax Act, including whether and how state, local and foreign jurisdictions will react to such changes. The changes under the Tax Act could have an adverse impact on our tax liabilities. Changes in corporate tax rates, the realizability of the net deferred tax assets relating to our U.S. operations, the taxation of foreign earnings and the deductibility of expenses contained in the Tax Act or other tax reform legislation could result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years and could increase our future U.S. tax expense. Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. The foregoing items could have an adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow or financial condition. We may also be audited in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may challenge our intercompany structures or assess additional taxes, interest and penalties, including sales taxes and value-added taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of any tax audits or litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows in the period or periods for which a determination is made.. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. We currently have a significant amount of net operating losses, or NOLs, which we expect will reduce our overall tax liability for the foreseeable future. However, if we undergo an ownership change our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs, or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheet, even if we attain profitability. See Note 11, \"Income Taxes,\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details.. Our use of open source software in our solutions, processes and technology may expose us to additional risks and compromise our proprietary intellectual property.. We incorporate open source software into our Wi-Fi solutions, including certain open source code governed by the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License and the Common Development and Distribution License. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our solutions, make our proprietary code generally available in source code form (for example, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules), re-engineer our solutions, discontinue the sale of our solutions if re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a cost-effective and timely basis, or become subject to other consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management's attention from managing our business.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), the listing requirements of the securities exchange on which our common stock is traded, and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Our management team and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to compliance. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly, and increased demands on our administrative systems and resources. Among other things,. -. 22. -. Table of Contents. the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations, and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. To maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we have limited internal resources and we may need to hire additional employees to comply with these requirements in the future, which will increase our costs and expenses. We may also not be able to hire additional, qualified resources on a timely basis.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment will increase our general and administrative expense and result in a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations, and standards are unsuccessful, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods and impair our ability to comply with the accounting and reporting requirements applicable to public companies.. During the course of the preparation of our 2015 consolidated financial statements, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as a result of a lack of sufficient qualified personnel within the finance and accounting function who possessed an appropriate level of expertise to effectively perform the following functions commensurate with our  structure and financial reporting requirements: (i) identifying, selecting and applying generally accepted principles in the United States sufficiently to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are being appropriately recorded, and (ii) assessing risk and designing appropriate control activities over financial and reporting processes necessary to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements.. In response to the identified material weakness, although we do not believe it has been fully remediated yet, we have taken a number of steps towards remediating this material weakness and improving our internal control over financial reporting. During the second. third and fourth quarters of 2017, we increased our dedicated finance and accounting personnel, including the addition of two directors of accounting who are certified public accountants. One director of accounting resigned in January 2018 and we are actively working to hire a qualified replacement for this position. We believe these individuals, including the replacement hire, will possess the appropriate knowledge and capacity to help fulfill our obligations to comply with the accounting and reporting requirements. The additional resources added to the finance function (i) allow separate preparation and review of reconciliations and other account analysis, (ii) enable us to develop a more structured close process, including enhancing our existing policies and procedures, to improve the completeness, timeliness and accuracy of our financial reporting, and (iii) identify and review complex or unusual transactions.. While we believe that the foregoing actions will improve our internal control over financial reporting, the implementation of these measures is ongoing and will require validation and testing of the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls over a sustained period of financial reporting cycles. In addition, we may need to implement additional systems and controls, including further segregation of duties, to help ensure that our internal controls are effective. As a result, we determined that the material weaknesses had not been fully remediated as of December 31, 2017, and there is no assurance that these remediation efforts will be successful. If not properly remediated, this material weakness could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods and impair our ability to comply with accounting and reporting requirements.. We also cannot be certain that other material weaknesses and control deficiencies will not be discovered in the future. In addition, if our remediation efforts are not successful or other material weaknesses or control deficiencies occur in the future, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or on a timely basis, which could cause our reported financial results to be materially misstated and result in the loss of investor confidence or delisting and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. As a result of any such failures, we could also become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which. -. 23. -. Table of Contents. our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, and become subject to litigation from investors and stockholders, which could harm our reputation and financial condition, or divert financial and management resources from our core business.. We may not be able to implement an effective system of internal controls and accurately report our financial results on a timely basis, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.. Pursuant to the Exchange Act, we are required to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This assessment includes disclosure of a material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We plan to continue to further document and test our internal controls in order to identify, evaluate and remediate any deficiencies in those internal controls and document the results of our evaluation, testing and remediation, provided, however, we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as we did in preparing our 2015, 2016 and 2017 consolidated financial statements, that we are unable to remediate before the end of the same fiscal year in which the material weakness is identified, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors, when required, are unable to attest to management's report on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline.. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, which has suffered, and may in the future suffer, from cyclical downturns.. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, consolidation and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has historically experienced cyclical downturns, including during global recessions, which have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of ASPs. A significant portion of our operating expense is incurred in connection with developing our Wi-Fi solutions, securing design wins and assisting customers and service providers in the development of their product specifications in advance of anticipated sales. As a result, in the event that such sales do not ultimately materialize due to a cyclical downturn or otherwise, we may not be able to decrease our operating expense rapidly enough to offset any unanticipated shortfall in revenue. There is a risk that future downturns could negatively impact our revenue, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations and financial condition could be seriously impacted by security breaches, including cyber security incidents.. We may not be able to effectively detect, prevent and recover from security breaches, including attacks on information technology and infrastructure by hackers and viruses. Cyber attacks could result in unauthorized parties gaining access to certain confidential business information, and could include unauthorized third parties obtaining trade secrets and proprietary information related to our solutions. For example, we offer a cloud-based Wi-Fi analytics and monitoring platform that collects certain Wi-Fi network and system data. While we utilize Amazon Web Services for this platform, which provides a number of sophisticated technical and physical controls designed to prevent unauthorized access to or disclosure of customer content, we cannot be certain that such controls will be sufficient to prevent a security breach. It can be difficult, if not impossible, to entirely prevent cyber attacks. As these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant resources to enhance our control environment, processes, practices and other protective measures. Despite these efforts, if we experience a cyber security incident, such incident could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to comply with the terms of our loan and security agreements with a financial institution may adversely affect our working capital and financial condition.. Our Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (\"SVB\") contain customary covenants, which could restrict our ability to operate and finance our business and operations, such as nonpayment of amounts due under the revolving line of credit, violation of the restrictive covenants, violation of other contractual provisions, or a material adverse change in our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and breaches of any of these covenants could result in default under the loan agreement. In addition, borrowings under this loan agreement are collateralized by certain of our assets, including our receivables and inventory, subject to customary exceptions and limits.. -. 24. -. Table of Contents. On December 31, 2017, the Company sought to effect the extinguishment of its term loans under the SVB Loan and Security Agreement, of which approximately $3.9 million (including interest and early termination fees) remained outstanding. The payment for the extinguishment of the term loans was processed on January 2, 2018. See Note 7 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.. The loan agreement also contains customary events of default. Defaults, if not waived, could cause all of the outstanding indebtedness under our loan agreement to become immediately due and payable and would permit SVB to exercise remedies against the collateral in which we granted SVB a security interest.. If we are unable to comply with the terms of this agreement, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and our assets may become subject to SVB's security interest. This could materially and adversely affect our working capital, financial condition and our ability to operate.. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. Because a portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time, as international customer mix, business practices and our international footprint evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.. To date, all of our revenue has been denominated in U.S. dollars; however, most of our expenses associated with our international operations are denominated in local currencies. As a result, a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the value of these local currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Conversely, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could result in our Wi-Fi solutions being more expensive to our customers in their local currencies, and could have an adverse impact on our pricing and our business.. To date, we have not used risk management techniques to hedge the risks associated with these fluctuations. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies, not every exposure can be hedged and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign currency exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts that may vary or that may later prove to have been inaccurate. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or our failure to successfully hedge against these fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on business, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline.. Technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. Prior to our initial public offering, there had been no public market for shares of our common stock. Since our initial public offering, the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated from an intra-day high of $25.45 to an intra-day low of $9.60 and may continue to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause an investor to lose all or part of their investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following:. • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;. • changes in how customers perceive the benefits of our Wi-Fi solutions;. • departures of key personnel;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float;. • sales of large blocks of our common stock;. • sales of our common stock by our directors and officers;. -. 25. -. Table of Contents. • actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations;. • whether our results of operations meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors;. • changes in actual or future expectations of investors or securities analysts;. • litigation involving us, our industry, or both;. • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both;. • general economic conditions and trends;. • major catastrophic events in our domestic and foreign markets; and. • \"flash crashes,\" \"freeze flashes\" or other glitches that disrupt trading on the securities exchange on which we are listed.. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price is volatile, we may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our stock, publish negative research or reports or fail to publish reports about our business, our stock price could be adversely affected.. The trading market for our common stock will, to some extent, depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us should downgrade our stock or publish negative research or reports, cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports about our business, such actions could adversely affect our stock price.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could reduce the price that our common stock might otherwise attain.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares of our common stock at a desirable time and price. For example, the lock-up period in connection with our initial public offering expired on April 25, 2017 with respect to shares of our common stock held by stockholders and rights to purchase shares of our common stock held by option holders and warrant holders prior to our initial public offering. Accordingly, such holders are now able to sell their shares in the public market, subject to applicable securities laws. We also previously filed a registration statement to register shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under our employee equity incentive plans. As a result, subject to the satisfaction of applicable exercise periods and securities laws, the shares of our common stock that are issued upon exercise of outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock or vesting of other types of equity awards will be available for immediate resale in the United States in the open market. In addition, our executive officers and directors may wish to sell shares of our common stock held by them, including sales through automatic and non-discretionary written plans, known as \"Rule 10b5-1 Plans.\" Sales made by our executive officers and directors, including sales pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 Plans, regardless of the amount of such sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Certain holders of our common stock also have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Such a transaction could divert management's attention from the Company's core business, require us to incur additional expenses, and could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our stock incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders.. We expect to issue additional capital stock in the future that will result in dilution to all other stockholders. We expect to grant equity awards to employees, directors and consultants under our stock incentive plans. We may also raise capital through. -. 26. -. Table of Contents. equity financings in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products or technologies and issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition or investment. Any such issuances of additional capital stock may cause stockholders to experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock to decline.. A limited number of stockholders will continue to have substantial control over us, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control and other matters requiring stockholder approval.. Our directors, executive officers and each of our stockholders who own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock, in the aggregate, beneficially own a significant portion of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, and limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement and Mezzanine Loan impose restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases.. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable.. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it difficult for stockholders to elect directors who are not nominated by the current members of our board of directors or take other corporate actions, including effecting changes in our management. These provisions include:. • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which could delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors, our chief executive officer or our president (in the absence of a chief executive officer), which could delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least  66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation relating to the management of our business (including our classified board structure) or. -. 27. -. Table of Contents. certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquirer to effect such amendments to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt;. • the ability of our board of directors to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent an unsolicited takeover and inhibit the ability of an acquirer to amend the bylaws to facilitate an unsolicited takeover attempt; and. • advance notice procedures with which stockholders must comply to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a specified period of time.. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws designate a State or Federal court located within the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Pursuant to our Amended and Restated Bylaws, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (4) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, shall be a State or Federal court located within the State of Delaware, in all cases subject to the court's having personal jurisdiction over indispensable parties named as defendants. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to this provision. The forum selection clause in our Amended and Restated Bylaws will limit stockholders' choice in selecting a judicial forum for disputes with our company and may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us or our directors and officers.. We may not be able to obtain capital when desired on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new and enhance our existing Wi-Fi solutions, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we engage in debt financing, the holders of debt would have priority over the holders of common stock, and we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. We may also be required to take other actions that would otherwise be in the interests of the debt holders and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things:. • develop new or enhance our existing Wi-Fi solutions;. • expand our research and development and sales and marketing organizations;. • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements;. • hire, train and retain employees;. • expand our operations, in the United States or internationally; or. • acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses.. Our failure to do any of these things could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. -. 28. -. Table of Contents. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and our election to comply with the reduced disclosure requirements as a public company may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. For so long as we remain an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\") we have taken advantage of certain exemptions from various requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including not being required to comply with the independent auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (ii) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenue is $1.07 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous rolling three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in the Exchange Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we have relied on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile and may decline.. In addition, the JOBS Act also provides that an \"emerging growth company\" can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. However, we have chosen to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable."
