[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see page ii of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Need for Additional Capital. We have incurred losses since we were formed and expect to incur losses in the future. We cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability.. We incurred net losses of $27.0 million, $23.2 million and $15.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $144.4 million. We cannot predict if we will achieve sustained profitability in the near future or at all. We expect that our losses will continue at least through the next 24 months as we plan to invest significant additional funds toward expansion of our commercial organization and the development of our technology and related assays. In addition, as a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. These increased expenses will make it harder for us to achieve and sustain future profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the market acceptance of our products, future product development and our market penetration and margins.. Our quarterly and annual operating results and cash flows have fluctuated in the past and might continue to fluctuate, causing the value of our common stock to decline substantially.. Numerous factors, many of which are outside our control, may cause or contribute to significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. These fluctuations may make financial planning and forecasting difficult. In addition, these fluctuations may result in unanticipated decreases. 36. Table of Contents. in our available cash, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. In addition, one or more of such factors may cause our revenue or operating expenses in one period to be disproportionately higher or lower relative to the others. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis might not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as indicative of our future performance. Moreover, our stock price might be based on expectations of future performance that are unrealistic or that we might not meet and, if our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.. Our operating results have varied in the past. In addition to other risk factors listed in this section, some of the important factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results include:. <U+0095> adoption of our Simoa technology platform and products by customers;    <U+0095> the timing of customer orders to purchase our Simoa instruments;    <U+0095> the rate of utilization of consumables by our customers;    <U+0095> receipt and timing of revenue for services provided in our Simoa Accelerator Laboratory;    <U+0095> the timing of the introduction of new products, product enhancements and services; and    <U+0095> the receipt and timing of revenue from collaborations.. In addition, a significant portion of our operating expense is relatively fixed in nature, and planned expenditures are based in part on expectations regarding future revenue. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls might decrease our gross margins and could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could fall substantially.. We are an early, commercial-stage company and have a limited commercial history, which may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and predict our future performance.. We are an early, commercial-stage company and have a limited commercial history. Our revenues are derived from sales of our instruments, consumables and services, which are all based on our Simoa technology, which we launched commercially in 2014. Our limited commercial history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and make predictions about our future success or viability subject to significant uncertainty. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by early, commercial-stage companies, including scaling up our infrastructure and headcount. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business will suffer.. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth or do not successfully manage such growth, our business and growth prospects will be harmed.. We have experienced significant revenue growth in a short period of time. We may not achieve similar growth rates in future periods. Investors should not rely on our operating results for any prior periods as an indication of our future operating performance. To effectively manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to maintain and enhance our financial, accounting, manufacturing, customer support and sales administration systems, processes and controls. Failure to effectively manage our anticipated growth could lead us to over-invest or under-invest in development, operational, and administrative infrastructure; result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, systems, or controls; give rise to operational mistakes, losses, loss of customers, productivity or business opportunities; and result in loss of employees and reduced productivity of remaining employees.. 37. Table of Contents. Our continued growth could require significant capital expenditures and might divert financial resources from other projects such as the development of new products and services. As additional products are commercialized, we may need to incorporate new equipment, implement new technology systems, or hire new personnel with different qualifications. Failure to manage this growth or transition could result in turnaround time delays, higher product costs, declining product quality, deteriorating customer service, and slower responses to competitive challenges. A failure in any one of these areas could make it difficult for us to meet market expectations for our products, and could damage our reputation and the prospects for our business.. If our management is unable to effectively manage our anticipated growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than expected and we may be unable to implement our business strategy. The quality of our products and services may suffer, which could negatively affect our reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers.. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future.. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2017, together with our cash generated from commercial sales, excluding any future available borrowings under our debt facility, will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 24 months. However, we may need to raise substantial additional capital to:. <U+0095> expand our sales and marketing efforts to further commercialize our products;    <U+0095> expand our research and development efforts to improve our existing products and develop and launch new products, particularly if any of our products are deemed by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, to be medical devices or otherwise subject to additional regulation by the FDA;     <U+0095> seek premarket approval, or PMA, or 510(k) clearance from the FDA for our existing products or new products if or when we decide to market products for use in the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of a disease or other condition (see \"Risk Factors - If the FDA determines that our products are medical devices or if we seek to market our products for clinical diagnostic or health screening use, we will be required to obtain regulatory clearance(s) or approval(s), and may be required to cease or limit sales of our then marketed products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such regulatory process would be expensive, time-consuming and uncertain both in timing and in outcome.\" and \"Business - Government regulation - 501(k) clearance pathway;\" \"Business - Government regulation - Premarket approval pathway\" and \"Business - Government regulation - Clinical trials\" for further information about the FDA approvals that we may be required to seek and obtain in that circumstance);     <U+0095> lease a larger facility or build out our existing facility as we continue to grow our employee headcount;     <U+0095> hire additional personnel;    <U+0095> enter into collaboration arrangements, if any, or in-license other products and technologies;    <U+0095> add operational, financial and management information systems; and    <U+0095> incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company.. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including:. <U+0095> market acceptance of our products, including the recently launched Quanterix SR-X instrument;    <U+0095> the cost and timing of establishing additional sales, marketing and distribution capabilities;. 38. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the cost of our research and development activities;    <U+0095> the success of our existing collaborations and our ability to enter into additional collaborations in the future; and     <U+0095> the effect of competing technological and market developments.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Future debt financing, if available, may involve covenants restricting our operations or our ability to incur additional debt. Any debt or equity financing may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we do not have, or are not able to obtain, sufficient funds, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products or cease operations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and business.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future income may be subject to certain limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carry forwards, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income of approximately $108.4 million, which expire at various dates through 2035, if not utilized. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOLs to offset future taxable income. We have already experienced one or more ownership changes as defined under Section 382 of the Code. Depending on the timing of any future utilization of our NOLs, we may be limited as to the amount that can be utilized each year as a result of such previous ownership changes. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership, including changes that may be outside of our control, could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382 of the Code. Our NOLs may also be impaired under similar provisions of state law. We have recorded a full valuation allowance related to our NOLs and other deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of the future benefits of those assets.. U.S. taxation of international business activities or the adoption of tax reform policies could materially impact our future financial position and results of operations.. Limitations on the ability of taxpayers to claim and utilize foreign tax credits and the deferral of certain tax deductions until earnings outside of the United States are repatriated to the United States, as well as changes to U.S. tax laws that may be enacted in the future, could impact the tax treatment of future foreign earnings. Should the scale of our international business activities expand, any changes in the U.S. taxation of such activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our future financial position and results of operations.. Provisions of our secured term loan facility with Hercules Capital, Inc. may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. In addition, repayment of our outstanding debt and other obligations under our secured term loan facility with Hercules is subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of an event of default, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our secured term loan facility with Hercules Capital, Inc., or Hercules, requires us, and any debt instruments we may enter into in the future may require us, to comply with various covenants that limit our ability to take on new indebtedness, to permit new liens, to pay dividends, to dispose of our property (including to license in certain situations), to engage in mergers or acquisitions and make. 39. Table of Contents. certain other changes in our business. Debt instruments we may enter into in the future may also include financial covenants such as a requirement to maintain a specified minimum liquidity level or achieve a minimum annual revenue level. These restrictions could inhibit our ability to pursue our business strategies, including our ability to raise additional capital and make certain dispositions or investments without the consent of our lenders.. The obligations under our secured term loan facility with Hercules are subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of specified events of default, including our failure to make payments when due, our breach or default in the performance of our covenants and obligations under the facility following a cure period, bankruptcy and similar events, and the occurrence of a circumstance that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on (i) our business, operations, properties, assets or financial condition, (ii) our ability to perform our obligations in accordance with the facility documents, (iii) the lender's ability to enforce any of its rights or remedies with respect to our obligations, or (iv) the collateral, the liens on the collateral or the first priority of the lender's liens. While we do not believe it is probable that the lender would accelerate the obligations under the facility, the definition of a material adverse effect is inherently subjective in nature, and we cannot assure that a material adverse effect will not occur or be deemed to have occurred by the lender.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" or TCJA, that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating loss carryforwards, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and there has been no impact due to the required full valuation allowance against our total deferred tax assets. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform is uncertain and could be adverse. This report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect our stockholders. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Business. If our products fail to achieve and sustain sufficient market acceptance, our revenue will be adversely affected.. Our success depends on our ability to develop and market products that are recognized and accepted as reliable, enabling and cost-effective. Most of the potential customers for our products already use expensive research systems in their laboratories that they have used for many years and may be reluctant to replace those systems with ours. Market acceptance of our Simoa technology will depend on many factors, including our ability to convince potential customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to existing technologies. Compared to some competing technologies, our Simoa technology is new and complex, and many potential customers have limited knowledge of, or experience with, our products. Prior to adopting our systems, some potential customers may need to devote time and effort to testing and validating our systems. Any failure of our systems to meet these customer benchmarks could result in potential customers choosing to retain their existing systems or to purchase systems other than ours. In addition, it is important that our Simoa technology be perceived as accurate and reliable by the scientific and medical research community as a whole. Historically, a significant part of our sales and marketing efforts has been directed at demonstrating the advantages of our technology to industry leaders and encouraging such leaders to publish or present the results of their evaluation of our system. If we are unable to continue to motivate leading researchers to use Simoa technology, or if such researchers are unable to achieve or unwilling to publish or present. 40. Table of Contents. significant experimental results using our systems, acceptance and adoption of our systems will be slowed and our ability to increase our revenue would be adversely affected.. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to further penetrate our existing customer base and attract new customers.. Our current customer base is primarily composed of academic and governmental research institutions, as well as biopharmaceutical and contract research companies. Our success will depend upon our ability to respond to the evolving needs of, and increase our market share among, existing customers and additional potential customers, marketing new products as we develop them. Identifying, engaging and marketing to customers who are unfamiliar with our current products requires substantial time, expertise and expense and involves a number of risks, including:. <U+0095> our ability to attract, retain and manage the sales, marketing and service personnel necessary to expand market acceptance for our Simoa technology;    <U+0095> the time and cost of maintaining and growing a specialized sales, marketing and service force; and    <U+0095> our sales, marketing and service force may be unable to execute successful commercial activities.. We have utilized third parties to assist with sales, distribution and customer support in certain regions of the world. There is no guarantee, when we enter into such arrangements, that we will be successful in attracting desirable sales and distribution partners. There is also no guarantee that we will be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. Any failure of our sales and marketing efforts, or those of any third-party sales and distribution partners, would adversely affect our business.. Some of the reagents used in our products are labeled for \"research use only\" and will have to undergo additional testing before we could use them in a product intended for clinical use.. Some of the materials that are used in our consumable products, including certain reagents, are purchased from suppliers with a restriction that they be used for research use only, or RUO. While we have focused initially on the life sciences research market, part of our business strategy is to expand our product line, either alone or in collaboration with third parties, to encompass systems and products that can be used for clinical purposes. Whether or not we continue to use the same RUO materials that we currently use, or obtain similar materials that are not labeled with the RUO restriction, we will be required to demonstrate that the use of our system and products as a clinical test complies with all applicable requirements. In addition, if we were to change the supplier of any material or component used in a clinical test, we would be required to confirm through additional testing that the change does not adversely affect the reliability of the test. Any such additional testing may be expensive and time-consuming and delay our introduction of new products and systems.. In the near term, our business will depend on levels of research and development spending by academic and governmental research institutions and biopharmaceutical companies, a reduction in which could limit demand for our products and adversely affect our business and operating results.. In the near term, we expect that our revenue will be derived primarily from sales of our instruments and consumables to academic and governmental research institutions, as well as biopharmaceutical and contract research companies worldwide for research applications. The demand for our products will depend in part upon the research and development budgets of these customers, which are impacted by factors beyond our control, such as:. <U+0095> changes in government programs that provide funding to research institutions and companies;    <U+0095> macroeconomic conditions and the political climate;. 41. Table of Contents. <U+0095> changes in the regulatory environment;    <U+0095> differences in budgetary cycles; and    <U+0095> market acceptance of relatively new technologies, such as ours.. For example, in March 2017, the federal government announced the intent to cut federal biomedical research funding by as much as 18%. While there has been significant opposition to these funding cuts, the uncertainty regarding the availability of research funding for potential customers may adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate substantially due to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by these customers. Any decrease in customers' budgets or expenditures, or in the size, scope or frequency of capital or operating expenditures, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. The sales cycle for our Simoa instruments can be lengthy and variable, which makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and other operating results.. The sales process for our Simoa instruments generally involves numerous interactions with multiple individuals within an organization, and often includes in-depth analysis by potential customers of our technology and products and a lengthy review process. Our customers' evaluation processes often involve a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. As a result of these factors, the capital investment required to purchase our systems and the budget cycles of our customers, the time from initial contact with a customer to our receipt of a purchase order can vary significantly. Given the length and uncertainty of our sales cycle, we have in the past experienced, and expect to in the future experience, fluctuations in our sales on a period-to-period basis. In addition, any failure to meet customer expectations could result in customers choosing to retain their existing systems, use existing assays not requiring capital equipment or purchase systems other than ours.. Our long-term results depend upon our ability to improve existing products and introduce and market new products successfully.. Our business is dependent on the continued improvement of our existing Simoa products and our development of new products utilizing our Simoa or other potential future technology. As we introduce new products or refine, improve or upgrade versions of existing products, we cannot predict the level of market acceptance or the amount of market share these products will achieve, if any. We cannot assure you that we will not experience material delays in the introduction of new products in the future. In addition, introducing new products could result in a decrease in revenues from our existing products. For example, introduction of the Quanterix SR-X may result in a decrease in revenue from our existing Simoa HD-1 Analyzer instrument. Consistent with our strategy of offering new products and product refinements, we expect to continue to use a substantial amount of capital for product development and refinement. We may need additional capital for product development and refinement than is available on terms favorable to us, if at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation on a timely basis, our products may become obsolete over time and our revenues, cash flow, profitability and competitive position will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to:. <U+0095> correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;    <U+0095> allocate our research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects;. 42. Table of Contents. <U+0095> anticipate and respond to our competitors' development of new products and technological innovations;     <U+0095> innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in the markets we serve;    <U+0095> successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; and    <U+0095> convince customers to adopt new technologies.. In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product enhancements, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer.. Our ability to develop new products based on innovation can affect our competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may reduce future revenues and adversely affect our competitive position.. If we do not successfully develop and introduce new assays for our technology, we may not generate new sources of revenue and may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy.. Our business strategy includes the development of new assays for our Simoa instruments. New assays require significant research and development and a commitment of significant resources prior to their commercialization. Our technology is complex, and we cannot be sure that any assays we may intend to develop will be developed successfully, be proven to be effective, offer improvements over currently available tests, meet applicable standards, be produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs or be successfully marketed. Moreover, development of particular assays may require licenses or access to third party intellectual property which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and commercialize multiplex assays that can simultaneously measure multiple biomarkers. The most robust multiplex assay that we have commercially launched to date is a 4-plex assay. If we do not successfully develop new assays for our Simoa instruments, including multiplex assays with the ability to detect an increased number of biomarkers in a single sample, we could lose revenue opportunities with existing or future customers.. If we do not successfully manage the development and launch of new products, our financial results could be adversely affected.. We commercially launched our Quanterix SR-X instrument in December 2017. We face risks associated with launching new products such as the Quanterix SR-X. If we encounter development or manufacturing challenges or discover errors during our product development cycle, the product launch dates of new products may be delayed. The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business or financial condition.. Undetected errors or defects in our products could harm our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our products or expose us to product liability claims.. Our Simoa products may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or as new versions or new products are released. Disruptions affecting the introduction or release of, or other performance problems with, our products may damage our customers' businesses and could harm their and our reputation. If that occurs, we may incur significant costs, the attention of our key personnel. 43. Table of Contents. could be diverted, or other significant customer relations problems may arise. We may also be subject to warranty and liability claims for damages related to errors or defects in our products. In addition, if we do not meet industry or quality standards, if applicable, our products may be subject to recall. A material liability claim, recall or other occurrence that harms our reputation or decreases market acceptance of our products could harm our business and operating results.. Although we do not, and cannot currently, promote the use of our products, or services based on our products, for diagnostic purposes, if our customers develop or use them for diagnostic purposes, someone could file a product liability claim alleging that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in the failure to adequately perform, leading to death or injury. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business or financial condition. We cannot assure investors that our product liability insurance would adequately protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future.. We depend on strategic collaborations and licensing arrangements with third parties to develop in vitro diagnostic products. We may not be successful in maintaining these collaborations and licensing arrangements and in establishing or maintaining additional collaborations or license agreements.. We have established strategic collaborations and licensing agreements with third parties to develop products based on our Simoa technology, such as for certain in vitro diagnostic, or IVD, purposes. For example, we have entered into a license agreement with bioMérieux SA, pursuant to which we have granted them an exclusive license to, among other things, develop and sell certain in vitro diagnostic products used in clinical lab applications based on our Simoa technology and a co-exclusive license for certain other in vitro diagnostic products. If bioMérieux or any other partners do not prioritize and commit sufficient resources to develop and sell products based on our Simoa technology, our ability to generate revenue from sales in respect of in vitro diagnostic products may be limited.. We may seek to enter into additional such arrangements; however, there is no assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Moreover, given the exclusive nature of a portion of the license rights granted to bioMérieux, our ability to collaborate with others in the areas of in vitro diagnostics used in clinical lab applications, food quality control testing, and pharmaceutical quality control testing will be limited, in that we may not establish collaborations with others covering these areas while the exclusive license to bioMérieux remains in effect, subject to our right to make and sell the current version of the Simoa HD-1 Analyzer for use in clinical lab applications, either directly or through a partner (but not both). Establishing collaborations and licensing arrangements is difficult and time-consuming. Discussions may not lead to collaborations or licenses on favorable terms, if at all. Even if we establish new relationships, they may never result in the successful development or commercialization of products based on our Simoa technology.. Our reliance on distributors for sales of our products outside of the United States could limit or prevent us from selling our products and could impact our revenue.. We have established exclusive distribution agreements for our Simoa HD-1 Analyzer and related consumable products within Australia, China, India, Japan, Lebanon, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan as well as other foreign countries. We intend to continue to grow our business internationally, and to do so we must attract additional distributors and retain existing distributors to maximize the commercial opportunity for our products. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in attracting or retaining desirable sales and distribution partners or that we will be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations or may choose to favor marketing the products of our. 44. Table of Contents. competitors. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or we are unable to enter into effective arrangements with distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize long-term international revenue growth. In addition, if our distributors fail to comply with applicable laws and ethical standards, including anti-bribery laws, this could damage our reputation and could have a significant adverse effect on our business and our revenues.. We expect to generate a substantial portion of our revenue internationally in the future and can become further subject to various risks relating to our international activities, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, approximately 45% and 36%, respectively, of our product revenue was generated from customers located outside of North America. We believe that a substantial percentage of our future revenue will come from international sources as we expand our overseas operations and develop opportunities in additional areas. We have limited experience operating internationally and engaging in international business involves a number of difficulties and risks, including:. <U+0095> required compliance with existing and changing foreign regulatory requirements and laws;    <U+0095> difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations;    <U+0095> difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property rights;    <U+0095> required compliance with anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations;    <U+0095> export or import restrictions;    <U+0095> laws and business practices favoring local companies;    <U+0095> longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;     <U+0095> political and economic instability; and    <U+0095> potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements and other trade barriers.. Historically, most of our revenue has been denominated in U.S. dollars. In the future, we may sell our products and services in local currency outside of the United States. As our operations in countries outside of the United States grow, our results of operations and cash flows may be subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could harm our business in the future. For example, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, in the absence of a corresponding change in local currency prices, our revenue could be adversely affected as we convert revenue from local currencies to U.S. dollars. If we dedicate significant resources to our international operations and are unable to manage these risks effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition will suffer.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other worldwide anti-bribery laws by us or our agents.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making payments in violation of law to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any other improper advantage. Our reliance on independent distributors to sell our products internationally demands a high degree of vigilance in maintaining our policy against participation in corrupt activity, because these distributors could be deemed to be our agents, and we could be held responsible for their actions. Other U.S. companies in. 45. Table of Contents. the medical device and pharmaceutical fields have faced criminal penalties under the FCPA for allowing their agents to deviate from appropriate practices in doing business with these individuals. We are also subject to similar antibribery laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United Kingdom's Bribery Act of 2010, which also prohibits commercial bribery and makes it a crime for companies to fail to prevent bribery. We have limited experience in complying with these laws and in developing procedures to monitor compliance with these laws by our agents. These laws are complex and far-reaching in nature, and, as a result, we cannot assure you that we would not be required in the future to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws or any changes in these laws or the interpretation thereof. Any violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction, involve significant costs and expenses, including legal fees, and could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, or results of operations. We could also incur severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, and other remedial measures.. If we are unable to attract, recruit, train, retain, motivate and integrate key personnel, we may not achieve our goals.. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, recruit, train, retain, motivate and integrate key personnel, including our recently expanded senior management team, as well as our research and development, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. Our growth depends, in particular, on attracting and retaining highly-trained sales personnel with the necessary scientific background and ability to understand our systems at a technical level to effectively identify and sell to potential new customers and develop new products. Because of the complex and technical nature of our products and the dynamic market in which we compete, any failure to attract, recruit, train, retain, motivate and integrate qualified personnel could materially harm our operating results and growth prospects.. We have limited experience in marketing and selling our products, and if we are unable to successfully commercialize our products, our business and operating results will be adversely affected.. We have limited experience marketing and selling our products. We currently sell all our products for research use only, through our direct field sales and support organizations located in North America and Europe and through a combination of our own sales force and third-party distributors in additional major markets, including Australia, China, India, Japan, Lebanon, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan.. The future sales of our products will depend in large part on our ability to effectively market and sell our products, successfully manage and expand our sales force, and increase the scope of our marketing efforts. We may also enter into additional distribution arrangements in the future. Because we have limited experience in marketing and selling our products, our ability to forecast demand, the infrastructure required to support such demand and the sales cycle to customers is unproven. If we do not build an efficient and effective sales force, our business and operating results will be adversely affected.. We rely on a single contract manufacturer to manufacture and supply our Simoa HD-1 Analyzer and rely on a different single contract manufacturer to manufacture and supply our Quanterix SR-X. If either of these manufacturers should fail or not perform satisfactorily, our ability to supply these instruments would be negatively and adversely affected.. We currently rely on a single contract manufacturer, STRATEC Biomedical AG, or STRATEC, an analytical and diagnostic systems manufacturer located in Germany, to manufacture and supply all of our Simoa HD-1 Analyzer instruments. In addition, we currently rely on a single contract manufacturer, Paramit Corporation, or Paramit, a contract manufacturer located in California, to. 46. Table of Contents. manufacture and supply all of our Quanterix SR-X instruments. Since our contract with STRATEC does not commit them to supply quantities beyond the amounts included in our forecasts and our contract with Paramit does not commit them to carry inventory or make available any particular quantities, these contract manufacturers may give other customers' needs higher priority than ours, and we may not be able to obtain adequate supplies in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. If either of these manufacturers were to be unable to supply instruments, our business would be harmed.. Pursuant to our Supply Agreement with STRATEC, as amended, we are required to purchase a minimum number of commercial units of our Simoa HD-1 Analyzer over a seven-year period ending in May 2021. If we fail to purchase a required minimum number of commercial units, including as a result of the impact of sales of the Quanterix SR-X going forward, we would be obligated to pay a fee based on the shortfall of commercial units purchased compared to the required number. If we fail to purchase a required minimum number of commercial instruments and terminate the arrangement in certain circumstances, we would be obligated to issue a warrant to purchase shares of our common stock. Any amount we may have to pay STRATEC for failing to purchase the minimum number of commercial units of our Simoa HD-1 Analyzer will cause our operating results to suffer.. In the event it becomes necessary to utilize a different contract manufacturer for either the Simoa HD-1 Analyzer or the Quanterix SR-X, we would experience additional costs, delays and difficulties in doing so as a result of identifying and entering into an agreement with a new supplier as well as preparing such new supplier to meet the logistical requirements associated with manufacturing our units, and our business would suffer. We may also experience additional costs and delays in the event we need access to or rights under any intellectual property of STRATEC.. In addition, certain of the components used in our instruments are sourced from limited or sole suppliers. If we were to lose such suppliers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or enter into agreements with alternative suppliers on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. An interruption in our ability to sell and deliver instruments to customers could occur if we encounter delays or difficulties in securing these components, or if the quality of the components supplied do not meet specifications, or if we cannot then obtain an acceptable substitute. If any of these events occur, our business and operating results could be harmed.. We may experience manufacturing problems or delays that could limit the growth of our revenue or increase our losses.. We may encounter unforeseen situations that would result in delays or shortfalls in our production as well as delays or shortfalls caused by our outsourced manufacturing suppliers and by other third-party suppliers who manufacture components for our products. If we are unable to keep up with demand for our products, our revenue could be impaired, market acceptance for our products could be adversely affected and our customers might instead purchase our competitors' products. Our inability to successfully manufacture our products would have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We rely on a limited number of suppliers or, in some cases, one supplier, for some of our materials and components used in our consumable products, and may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. We rely on limited or sole suppliers for certain reagents and other materials and components that are used in our consumable products. While we periodically forecast our needs for such materials and enter into standard purchase orders with them, we do not have long-term contracts with many of these suppliers. If we were to lose such suppliers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify or enter into agreements with alternative suppliers on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. An. 47. Table of Contents. interruption in our operations could occur if we encounter delays or difficulties in securing these materials, or if the quality of the materials supplied do not meet our requirements, or if we cannot then obtain an acceptable substitute. The time and effort required to qualify a new supplier and ensure that the new materials provide the same or better quality results could result in significant additional costs. Any such interruption could significantly affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. If we cannot provide quality technical and applications support, we could lose customers and our business and prospects will suffer.. The placement of our products at new customer sites, the introduction of our technology into our customers' existing laboratory workflows and ongoing customer support can be complex. Accordingly, we need highly trained technical support personnel. Hiring technical support personnel is very competitive in our industry due to the limited number of people available with the necessary scientific and technical backgrounds and ability to understand our Simoa technology at a technical level. To effectively support potential new customers and the expanding needs of current customers, we will need to substantially expand our technical support staff. If we are unable to attract, train or retain the number of highly qualified technical services personnel that our business needs, our business and prospects will suffer.. The life sciences research and diagnostic markets are highly competitive. If we fail to effectively compete, our business, financial condition and operating results will suffer.. We face significant competition in the life sciences research and diagnostic markets. We currently compete with both established and early stage companies that design, manufacture and market systems and consumable supplies. We believe our principal competitors in the life sciences research and diagnostic markets include Bio-Techne, Luminex Corporation, MesoScale Diagnostics, Singulex, Gyros Corporation and Nanostring Technologies, Inc. As we expand the applications for our products to include health screening, we expect to compete with companies such as Siemens, Abbott, Roche, Ortho Clinical Diagnostics and Thermo Fisher Scientific. In addition, there are a number of new market entrants in the process of developing novel technologies for the life sciences research, diagnostic and screening markets.. Many of our current competitors are either publicly traded, or are divisions of publicly-traded companies, and may enjoy a number of competitive advantages over us, including:. <U+0095> greater name and brand recognition;    <U+0095> substantially greater financial and human resources;    <U+0095> broader product lines;    <U+0095> larger sales forces and more established distributor networks;    <U+0095> substantial intellectual property portfolios;    <U+0095> larger and more established customer bases and relationships; and    <U+0095> better established, larger scale, and lower cost manufacturing capabilities.. We believe that the principal competitive factors in all of our target markets include:. <U+0095> cost of instruments and consumables;    <U+0095> accuracy, including sensitivity and specificity, and reproducibility of results;    <U+0095> reputation among customers;. 48. Table of Contents. <U+0095> innovation in product offerings;    <U+0095> flexibility and ease of use; and    <U+0095> compatibility with existing laboratory processes, tools and methods.. We cannot assure investors that our products will compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and technologies introduced by our existing competitors or new companies entering our markets. In addition, we cannot assure investors that our competitors do not have or will not develop products or technologies that currently or in the future will enable them to produce competitive products with greater capabilities or at lower costs than ours. Any failure to compete effectively could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire, including recently acquired Aushon Biosystems, Inc., can be expensive, time consuming and can disrupt and adversely affect our ongoing business, including product sales, and distract our management.. We may acquire other businesses, products or technologies as well as pursue strategic alliances, joint ventures, technology licenses or investments in complementary businesses, such as our recent acquisition of Aushon Biosystems, Inc. Our ability to successfully integrate any business, product or technology we acquire depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to:. <U+0095> minimize the disruption and distraction of our management and other employees, including our sales force, in connection with the integration of any acquired business, product or technology;    <U+0095> minimize disruption in our relationships with customers, distributors or suppliers as a result of such a transaction;     <U+0095> avoid acquisition of unanticipated liabilities related to acquired companies;    <U+0095> maintain and increase sales of our existing products;    <U+0095> establish or manage the transition of the manufacture and supply of any acquired product;    <U+0095> identify and add the necessary sales, marketing, manufacturing, regulatory and other related personnel, capabilities and infrastructure that are required to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology;    <U+0095> manage the transition and migration of acquired personnel and all commercial, financial, legal, regulatory and other pertinent information relating to any acquired business, product or technology;    <U+0095> comply with legal, regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to any acquired business, product or technology; and     <U+0095> maintain and extend intellectual property protection for any acquired product or technology.. If we are unable to perform the above functions or otherwise effectively integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies, our business, financial condition and operating results will suffer.. Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.. Also, the anticipated benefit of any acquisition may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our. 49. Table of Contents. financial condition. We cannot predict the number, timing or size of future joint ventures or acquisitions, or the effect that any such transactions might have on our operating results.. Risks Related to Government Regulation and Diagnostic Product Reimbursement. If the FDA determines that our products are medical devices or if we seek to market our products for clinical diagnostic or health screening use, we will be required to obtain regulatory clearance(s) or approval(s), and may be required to cease or limit sales of our then marketed products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any such regulatory process would be expensive, time-consuming and uncertain both in timing and in outcome.. We have focused initially on the life sciences research market. This includes laboratories associated with academic and governmental research institutions, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology and contract research companies. Accordingly, our products are labeled as \"Research Use Only,\" or RUO, and are not intended for diagnostic use. While we have focused initially on the life sciences research market and RUO products only, our strategy is to expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, either alone or in collaboration with third parties (such as our collaboration with bioMérieux). Such IVD products will be subject to regulation by the FDA as medical devices, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed. If the FDA were to determine that our products are intended for clinical use or if we decided to market our products for such use, we would be required to obtain FDA 510(k) clearance or premarket approval in order to sell our products in a manner consistent with FDA laws and regulations. Such regulatory approval processes or clearances are expensive, time-consuming and uncertain; our efforts may never result in any approved PMA application or 510(k) clearance for our products; and failure by us or a collaborator to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.. IVD products are regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable international agencies and may require either clearance from the FDA following the 510(k) pre-market notification process or PMA from the FDA, in each case prior to marketing. If we or our collaborators are required to obtain a PMA or 510(k) clearance for products based on our technology, we or they would be subject to a substantial number of additional requirements for medical devices, including establishment registration, device listing, Quality Systems Regulations, or QSRs, which cover the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, servicing, sterilization (if required), and storage and shipping of medical devices (among other activities), product labeling, advertising, recordkeeping, post-market surveillance, post-approval studies, adverse event reporting, and correction and removal (recall) regulations. One or more of the products we or a collaborator may develop using our technology may also require clinical trials in order to generate the data required for PMA. Complying with these requirements may be time-consuming and expensive. We or our collaborators may be required to expend significant resources to ensure ongoing compliance with the FDA regulations and/or take satisfactory corrective action in response to enforcement action, which may have a material adverse effect on the ability to design, develop, and commercialize products using our technology as planned. Failure to comply with these requirements may subject us or a collaborator to a range of enforcement actions, such as warning letters, injunctions, civil monetary penalties, criminal prosecution, recall and/or seizure of products, and revocation of marketing authorization, as well as significant adverse publicity. If we or our collaborators fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for IVD products, such products may not be able to be launched or successfully commercialized in a timely manner, or at all.. Laboratory developed tests, or LDTs, are a subset of IVD tests that are designed, manufactured and used within a single laboratory. The FDA maintains that LDTs are medical devices and has for the most part exercised enforcement discretion for most LDTs. A significant change in the way that the. 50. Table of Contents. FDA regulates any LDTs that we, our collaborators or our customers develop using our technology could affect our business. The FDA has considered the appropriate way to regulate such tests, but after publishing several draft guidances and holding a number of public hearings and workshops, no final guidance has been issued. However, if the FDA requires laboratories to undergo premarket review and comply with other applicable FDA requirements in the future, the cost and time required to commercialize an LDT will increase substantially, and may reduce the financial incentive for laboratories to develop LDTs, which could reduce demand for our instruments and our other products.. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements could subject us to misbranding or adulteration allegations under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. We could be subject to a range of enforcement actions, including warning letters, injunctions, civil monetary penalties, criminal prosecution, and recall and/or seizure of products, as well as significant adverse publicity. In addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.. Foreign jurisdictions have laws and regulations similar to those described above, which may adversely affect our ability to market our products as planned in such countries. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing. As in the United States, the cost and time required to comply with regulatory requirements may be substantial, and there is no guarantee that we will obtain the necessary authorization(s) required to make our products commercially viable. As a result, the imposition of foreign requirements may also have a material adverse effect on the commercial viability of our operations.. If we do not comply with governmental regulations applicable to our recently acquired CLIA-certified laboratory, we may not be able to continue our operations.. The operation of our recently acquired CLIA-certified laboratory is subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States. This laboratory holds a CLIA certificate of compliance and is licensed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the State of Maryland, and we intend to obtain other state licenses as may be required in the future. Failure to comply with federal or state regulations or changes in those regulatory requirements, could result in a substantial curtailment or even prohibition of the operations of our laboratory and could have an adverse effect on our business. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on human specimens for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. To maintain CLIA certification, laboratories are subject to survey and inspection every two years. Moreover, CLIA inspectors may make unannounced inspections of these laboratories. If we were to lose our CLIA certification or any required state licenses, whether as a result of a revocation, suspension or limitation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We expect to rely on third parties in conducting any required future studies of diagnostic products that may be required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily.. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials or other studies that may be required to obtain FDA and other regulatory clearance or approval for future diagnostic products. Accordingly, we expect that we would rely on third parties, such as clinical investigators, consultants, and collaborators to conduct such studies if needed. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical and other development activities would reduce our control over these activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised, we may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approval.. 51. Table of Contents. If diagnostic procedures that are enabled by our technology are subject to unfavorable pricing regulations or third-party coverage and reimbursement policies, our business could be harmed.. The ability of our customers to commercialize diagnostic tests based on our technology will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for these tests will be available from government health programs, private health insurers and other third-party payors. In the United States, the principal decisions about reimbursement for new technologies are often made by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS. Private payors often follow CMS to a substantial degree. It is difficult to predict what CMS will decide with respect to reimbursement. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of payments for particular products and procedures. We cannot be sure that coverage will be available for any diagnostic tests based on our technology, and, if coverage is available, the level of payments. Reimbursement may impact the demand for those tests. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, our customers may not be able to successfully commercialize any tests for which they receive marketing authorization.. Current and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize any products based on our technology and affect the prices that may be obtained.. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively, the ACA, became law. The ACA is a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA. Both Congress and President Trump have expressed their intention to repeal or repeal and replace the ACA, and as a result certain sections of the ACA have not been fully implemented or were effectively repealed. The uncertainty around the future of the ACA, and in particular the impact to reimbursement levels and the number of insured individuals, may lead to uncertainty or delay in the purchasing decisions of our customers, which may in turn negatively impact our product sales. If there are not adequate reimbursement levels, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted. We expect that the ACA, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we or our collaborators will receive for any cleared or approved product. Any reduction in payments from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize any of our products for which we receive marketing approval.. In addition, sales of our tests outside of the United States will subject us to foreign regulatory requirements, which may also change over time.. We cannot predict whether future healthcare initiatives will be implemented at the federal or state level or in countries outside of the United States in which we may do business, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us. The expansion in government's effect on the United States healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursements by payors for our products or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 52. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Operations. We depend on our information technology systems, and any failure of these systems could harm our business.. We depend on information technology and telecommunications systems to operate our business. We have installed, and expect to expand, a number of enterprise software systems that affect a broad range of business processes and functional areas, including, for example, systems handling human resources, accounting, manufacturing, inventory control, financial controls and reporting, sales administration, and other infrastructure operations. In addition to the aforementioned business systems, we intend to extend the capabilities of both our preventative and detective security controls by augmenting the monitoring and alerting functions, network design, and automatic countermeasure operations of our technical systems. These information technology and telecommunications systems support a variety of functions, including manufacturing operations, quality control, customer service support, and general administrative activities.. Information technology and telecommunications systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our information technology and telecommunications systems, failures or significant downtime of our information technology or telecommunications systems or those used by our third-party suppliers could prevent us from operating our business and managing the administrative aspects of our business. Any disruption or loss of information technology or telecommunications systems on which critical aspects of our operations depend could have an adverse effect on our business.. Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business or prevent us from accessing critical information and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary business information owned or controlled by ourselves or our customers. This data encompasses a wide variety of business-critical information including research and development information, commercial information, and business and financial information. We face four primary risks relative to protecting this critical information: loss of access; inappropriate disclosure; inappropriate modification; and inadequate monitoring of our controls over the first three risks.. The secure processing, storage, maintenance, and transmission of this critical information is vital to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting such information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or viruses, breaches, interruptions due to employee error, malfeasance, lapses in compliance with privacy and security mandates, or other disruptions. Any such breach or interruption could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, government enforcement actions and regulatory penalties. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also disrupt our operations, including our ability to conduct research and development activities, process and prepare company financial information, manage various general and administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our reputation and our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will promptly detect any such disruption or security breach, if at all. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed.. 53. Table of Contents. We face risks related to handling of hazardous materials and other regulations governing environmental safety.. Our operations are subject to complex and stringent environmental, health, safety and other governmental laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. Our activities that are subject to these regulations include, among other things, our use of hazardous materials and the generation, transportation and storage of waste. Although we have secured clearance from the EPA historically, and currently are operating in compliance with applicable EPA rules and regulations, our business could be adversely affected if we discover that we or an acquired business is not in material compliance with these rules and regulations. In the future, we may pursue the use of other surfactant substances that will require clearance from the EPA, and we may fail to obtain such clearance. Existing laws and regulations may also be revised or reinterpreted, or new laws and regulations may become applicable to us, whether retroactively or prospectively, that may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. It is also impossible to eliminate completely the risk of accidental environmental contamination or injury to individuals. In such an event, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, it may reduce our ability to maintain any technological or competitive advantage over our competitors and potential competitors, and our business may be harmed.. We rely on patent protection as well as trademark, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property rights protection and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technologies, all of which provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. As of March 1, 2018, we owned or exclusively licensed 18 granted U.S. patents and approximately 11 pending U.S. patent applications. We also owned or exclusively licensed approximately 32 pending patent applications and granted patents in particular jurisdictions outside of the United States. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to compete more effectively against us, we may lose our technological or competitive advantage, or we may incur substantial litigation costs in our attempts to recover or restrict use of our intellectual property.. We cannot assure investors that any of our currently pending or future patent applications will result in granted patents, and we cannot predict how long it will take for such patents to be granted. It is possible that, for any of our patents that have granted or that may grant in the future, others will design around our patented technologies. Further, we cannot assure investors that other parties will not challenge any patents granted to us or that courts or regulatory agencies will hold our patents to be valid or enforceable. We cannot guarantee investors that we will be successful in defending challenges made against our patents and patent applications. Any successful third-party challenge to our patents could result in the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents, or to such patents being interpreted narrowly or otherwise in a manner adverse to our interests. Our ability to establish or maintain a technological or competitive advantage over our competitors may be diminished because of these uncertainties. For these and other reasons, our intellectual property may not provide us with any competitive advantage. For example:. <U+0095> We or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or granted patents;     <U+0095> We or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions. To determine the priority of these inventions, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or derivation proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, that could result in substantial cost to us. No assurance can be given that our patent applications or granted patents (or those of our licensors) will have priority over any other patent or patent application involved in such a proceeding;. 54. Table of Contents. <U+0095> Others may independently develop similar or alternative products and technologies or duplicate any of our products and technologies;     <U+0095> It is possible that our owned or licensed pending patent applications will not result in granted patents, and even if such pending patent applications grant as patents, they may not provide a basis for intellectual property protection of commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties;    <U+0095> We may not develop additional proprietary products and technologies that are patentable;    <U+0095> The patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business; and    <U+0095> While we apply for patents covering our products and technologies and uses thereof, as we deem appropriate, we may fail to apply for patents on important products and technologies in a timely fashion or at all, or we may fail to apply for patents in potentially relevant jurisdictions.. To the extent our intellectual property offers inadequate protection, or is found to be invalid or unenforceable, we would be exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property does not provide adequate coverage of our competitors' products, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business.. Software is a critical component of our instruments. To the extent such software is not protected by our patents, we depend on trade secret protection and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, strategic partners and consultants, which may not provide adequate protection.. The measures that we use to protect the security of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate, which could result in the loss of legal protection for, and thereby diminish the value of, such intellectual property and other rights.. In addition to pursuing patents on our technology, we also rely upon trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. In addition, we take steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, corporate partners and, when needed, our advisors. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Moreover, if a party having an agreement with us has an overlapping or conflicting obligation to a third party, our rights in and to certain intellectual property could be undermined. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming, the outcome would be unpredictable, and any remedy may be inadequate. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets.. In addition, competitors could purchase our products and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, willfully infringe our intellectual property rights, design around our protected technology or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property does not adequately protect our market share against competitors' products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business.. 55. Table of Contents. Some of our owned and in-licensed intellectual property has been discovered through government funded programs and thus is subject to federal regulations such as \"march-in\" rights, certain reporting requirements, and a preference for U.S. industry. Compliance with such regulations may limit our exclusive rights, subject us to expenditure of resources with respect to reporting requirements, and limit our ability to contract with non-U.S. manufacturers.. Some of the intellectual property rights we own and have in-licensed have been generated through the use of U.S. government funding and are therefore subject to certain federal regulations. For example, all of the issued U.S. patents we own and all of the intellectual property rights licensed to us under our license agreement with Tufts have been generated using U.S. government funds. As a result, the U.S. government has certain rights to intellectual property embodied in our current or future products pursuant to the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, or Bayh-Dole Act. These U.S. government rights in certain inventions developed under a government-funded program include a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable worldwide license to use inventions for any governmental purpose. In addition, the U.S. government has the right to require us to grant exclusive, partially exclusive, or non-exclusive licenses to any of these inventions to a third party if the government determines that: (i) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize the invention; (ii) government action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; or (iii) government action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations (also referred to as \"march-in rights\"). The U.S. government also has the right to take title to these inventions if we fail, or the applicable licensor fails, to disclose the invention to the government, elect title, and file an application to register the intellectual property within specified time limits. In addition, the U.S. government may acquire title to these inventions in any country in which a patent application is not filed within specified time limits. Intellectual property generated under a government funded program is also subject to certain reporting requirements, compliance with which may require us, or the applicable licensor, to expend substantial resources. In addition, the U.S. government requires that any products embodying the subject invention or produced through the use of the subject invention be manufactured substantially in the U.S. The manufacturing preference requirement can be waived if the owner of the intellectual property can show that reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that would be likely to manufacture substantially in the U.S. or that under the circumstances domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible. This preference for U.S. manufacturing may limit our ability to license the applicable patent rights on an exclusive basis under certain circumstances.. If we enter into future arrangements involving government funding, and we make inventions as a result of such funding, intellectual property rights to such discoveries may be subject to the applicable provisions of the Bayh-Dole Act. To the extent any of our current or future intellectual property is generated through the use of U.S. government funding, the provisions of the Bayh-Dole Act may similarly apply. Any exercise by the government of certain of its rights could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We depend on technology that is licensed to us by Tufts University. Any loss of our rights to this technology could prevent us from selling our products.. Our core Simoa technology is licensed exclusively to us from Tufts University. We do not own the patents that underlie this license. Our rights to use this technology and employ the inventions claimed in the licensed patents are subject to the continuation of and compliance with the terms of the license. Our principal obligations under our license agreement with Tufts are as follows:. <U+0095> royalty payments;    <U+0095> milestone payments;    <U+0095> annual maintenance fees;. 56. Table of Contents. <U+0095> using commercially reasonable efforts to develop and sell a product using the licensed technology and developing a market for such product;     <U+0095> paying and/or reimbursing fees related to prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of patent rights; and     <U+0095> providing certain reports.. If we breach any of these obligations, Tufts may have the right to terminate the license, which could result in our being unable to develop, manufacture and sell our Simoa products or a competitor's gaining access to the Simoa technology. Termination of our license agreement with Tufts would have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, we are a party to a number of other agreements that include licenses to intellectual property, including non-exclusive licenses. We expect that we may need to enter into additional license agreements in the future. Our business could suffer, for example, if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable, or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms.. As we have done previously, we may need or may choose to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our current or future products, and we cannot provide any assurances that third-party patents do not exist that might be enforced against our current or future products in the absence of such a license. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain a license, it may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us. In that event, we may be required to expend significant time and resources to develop or license replacement technology. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to develop or commercialize the affected products, which could materially harm our business and the third parties owning such intellectual property rights could seek either an injunction prohibiting our sales, or, with respect to our sales, an obligation on our part to pay royalties and/or other forms of compensation.. Licensing of intellectual property is important to our business and involves complex legal, business and scientific issues. Disputes may arise between us and our licensors regarding intellectual property subject to a license agreement, including:. <U+0095> the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues;    <U+0095> whether and the extent to which our technology and processes infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement;    <U+0095> our right to sublicense patent and other rights to third parties under collaborative development relationships;     <U+0095> our diligence obligations with respect to the use of the licensed technology in relation to our development and commercialization of our products, and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations; and    <U+0095> the ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our partners.. If disputes over intellectual property that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected product, or the dispute may have an adverse effect on our results of operation.. 57. Table of Contents. In addition to agreements pursuant to which we in-license intellectual property, we have in the past and will continue in the future to grant licenses under our intellectual property. For example, we have granted certain exclusive and co-exclusive licenses in certain fields to bioMérieux and a non-exclusive license to a diagnostic company in certain fields. Like our in-licenses, our out-licenses are complex and disputes may arise between us and our licensees, such as the types of disputes described above. Moreover, our licensees may breach their obligations, or we may be exposed to liability due to our failure or alleged failure to satisfy our obligations. Any such occurrence could have an adverse affect on our business.. If we or any of our partners are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it would be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our success also depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and perform our services without infringing upon the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign-issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in the fields in which we are developing products and services. As part of a business strategy to impede our successful commercialization and entry into new markets, competitors may claim that our products and/or services infringe their intellectual property rights.. We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against claims of infringement made by third parties. Any adverse ruling by a court or administrative body, or perception of an adverse ruling, may have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business and our finances. Moreover, third parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive relief against us, which could block our ability to offer one or more products or services and could result in a substantial award of damages against us. In addition, since we sometimes indemnify customers, collaborators or licensees, we may have additional liability in connection with any infringement or alleged infringement of third party intellectual property.. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be pending applications, some of which are unknown to us, that may result in issued patents upon which our products or proprietary technologies may infringe. Moreover, we may fail to identify issued patents of relevance or incorrectly conclude that an issued patent is invalid or not infringed by our technology or any of our products. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in our industry. If a third-party claims that we or any of our licensors, customers or collaboration partners infringe upon a third-party's intellectual property rights, we may have to:. <U+0095> seek to obtain licenses that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all;    <U+0095> abandon any infringing product or redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement;    <U+0095> pay substantial damages including, in an exceptional case, treble damages and attorneys' fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes upon or violates the third-party's rights;    <U+0095> pay substantial royalties or fees or grant cross-licenses to our technology; or    <U+0095> defend litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources.. 58. Table of Contents. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. In the event of infringement or unauthorized use, we may file one or more infringement lawsuits, which can be expensive and time consuming. An adverse result in any such litigation proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated, being found to be unenforceable or being interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. Most of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater resources. They are, therefore, likely to be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation longer than we could. In addition, the uncertainties associated with litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise any funds necessary to continue our operations, continue our internal research programs, in-license needed technology, or enter into development partnerships that would help us bring our products to market.. In addition, patent litigation can be very costly and time consuming. An adverse outcome in such litigation or proceedings may expose us or any of our future development partners to loss of our proprietary position, expose us to significant liabilities, or require us to seek licenses that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all.. Our issued patents could be found invalid or unenforceable if challenged in court, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. If we or any of our partners were to initiate legal proceedings against a third-party to enforce a patent covering one of our products or services, the defendant in such litigation could counterclaim that our patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement, or failure to claim patent eligible subject matter. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO, or made a misleading statement, during prosecution. Third parties may also raise similar claims before the USPTO even outside the context of litigation. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the challenged patent. Such a loss of patent protection would have a material adverse impact on our business.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers to us, which could subject us to costly litigation.. As is common in the life sciences industry, we engage the services of consultants and independent contractors to assist us in the development of our products. Many of these consultants and independent contractors were previously employed at, or may have previously or may be currently providing consulting or other services to, universities or other technology, biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may become subject to claims that our company, a consultant or an independent contractor inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other information proprietary to their former employers or their former or current. 59. Table of Contents. clients. We may similarly be subject to claims stemming from similar actions of an employee, such as one who was previously employed by another company, including a competitor or potential competitor. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management team. If we were not successful we could lose access or exclusive access to valuable intellectual property.. We may be subject to claims challenging the inventorship or ownership of our patents and other intellectual property.. We generally enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, and contractors. These agreements generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, those agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. For example, even if we have a consulting agreement in place with an academic advisor pursuant to which such academic advisor is required to assign any inventions developed in connection with providing services to us, such academic advisor may not have the right to assign such inventions to us, as it may conflict with his or her obligations to assign all such intellectual property to his or her employing institution.. In addition, we sometimes enter into agreements where we provide services to third parties, such as customers. Under such circumstances, our agreements may provide that certain intellectual property that we conceive in the course of providing those services is assigned to the customer. In those cases, we would not be able to use that particular intellectual property in, for example, our work for other customers without a license.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world, which could materially, negatively affect our business.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on current and future products in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, regardless of whether we are able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in the United States, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our inventions in and into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not pursued and obtained patent protection to develop their own products, and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement is not as strong as it is in the United States. These products may compete with our products and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing. Even if we pursue and obtain issued patents in particular jurisdictions, our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent third parties from so competing. Patent protection must ultimately be sought on a country-by-country basis, which is an expensive and time-consuming process with uncertain outcomes. Accordingly, we may choose not to seek patent protection in certain countries, and we will not have the benefit of patent protection in such countries.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights. 60. Table of Contents. generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we develop or license and may adversely impact our business.. In addition, we and our partners also face the risk that our products are imported or reimported into markets with relatively higher prices from markets with relatively lower prices, which would result in a decrease of sales and any payments we receive from the affected market. Recent developments in U.S. patent law have made it more difficult to stop these and related practices based on theories of patent infringement.. Changes in patent laws or patent jurisprudence could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. As is the case with other life science industry companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents involve both technological complexity and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and enforcing patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the America Invents Act, or the AIA, was signed into law on September 16, 2011, and many of the substantive changes became effective on March 16, 2013.. An important change introduced by the AIA is that, as of March 16, 2013, the United States transitioned to a \"first-to-file\" system for deciding which party should be granted a patent when two or more patent applications are filed by different parties claiming the same invention. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO after that date but before us could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by the third party. This will require us to be cognizant going forward of the time from invention to filing of a patent application, but circumstances could prevent us from promptly filing patent applications on our inventions.. Among some of the other changes introduced by the AIA are changes that limit where a patent holder may file a patent infringement suit and providing additional opportunities for third parties to challenge any issued patent in the USPTO. This applies to all of our owned and in-licensed U.S. patents, even those issued before March 16, 2013. Because of a lower evidentiary standard in USPTO proceedings compared to the evidentiary standard in U.S. federal courts necessary to invalidate a patent claim, a third party could potentially provide evidence in a USPTO proceeding sufficient for the USPTO to hold a claim invalid even though the same evidence would be insufficient to invalidate the claim if first presented in a district court action. Accordingly, a third party may attempt to use the USPTO procedures to invalidate our patent claims that would not have been invalidated if first challenged by the third party as a defendant in a district court action. The AIA and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. Additionally, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, such as Impression Products, Inc. v. Lexmark International, Inc., Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc,, Mayo Collaborative Services v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc. and Alice Corporation Pty. Ltd. v. CLS Bank International, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the. 61. Table of Contents. U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that could weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case. In some cases, our licensors may be responsible for, for example, these payments, thereby decreasing our control over compliance with these requirements.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented or declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks and trade names, which we need to build name recognition by potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. At times, competitors may adopt trade names or trademarks similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks. Over the long term, if we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected.. We may use third-party open source software components in future products, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could restrict our ability to sell such products.. While our current products do not contain any software tools licensed by third-party authors under \"open source\" licenses, we may choose to use open source software in future products. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Some open source licenses may contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar products with less development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales.. Although we intend to monitor any use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that any such licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. Moreover, we cannot assure investors that our processes for controlling our use of open source software in our products will be effective. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our products, to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, or to make generally available,. 62. Table of Contents. in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. We use third-party software that may be difficult to replace or cause errors or failures of our products that could lead to lost customers or harm to our reputation.. We use software licensed from third parties in our products. In the future, this software may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this software could result in delays in the production of our products until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. In addition, any errors or defects in third-party software or other third-party software failures could result in errors, defects or cause our products to fail, which could harm our business and be costly to correct. Many of these providers attempt to impose limitations on their liability for such errors, defects or failures, and if enforceable, we may have additional liability to our customers or third-party providers that could harm our reputation and increase our operating costs.. We will need to maintain our relationships with third-party software providers and to obtain software from such providers that does not contain any errors or defects. Any failure to do so could adversely impact our ability to deliver reliable products to our customers and could harm our results of operations.. Numerous factors may limit any potential competitive advantage provided by our intellectual property rights.. The degree of future protection afforded by our intellectual property rights is uncertain because intellectual property rights have limitations, and may not adequately protect our business, provide a barrier to entry against our competitors or potential competitors, or permit us to maintain our competitive advantage. Moreover, if a third party has intellectual property rights that cover the practice of our technology, we may not be able to fully exercise or extract value from our intellectual property rights. The following examples are illustrative:. <U+0095> others may be able to develop and/or practice technology that is similar to our technology or aspects of our technology but that is not covered by the claims of any patents that have issued, or may issue, from our owned or in-licensed patent applications;    <U+0095> we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by a pending patent application that we own or license;     <U+0095> we might not have been the first to file patent applications covering an invention;    <U+0095> others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies without infringing our intellectual property rights;     <U+0095> pending patent applications that we own or license may not lead to issued patents;    <U+0095> patents, if issued, that we own or license may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable, as a result of legal challenges by our competitors;    <U+0095> third parties may compete with us in jurisdictions where we do not pursue and obtain patent protection;     <U+0095> we may not be able to obtain and/or maintain necessary or useful licenses on reasonable terms or at all;     <U+0095> third parties may assert an ownership interest in our intellectual property and, if successful, such disputes may preclude us from exercising exclusive rights over that intellectual property;. 63. Table of Contents. <U+0095> we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or other proprietary information;     <U+0095> we may not develop or in-license additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; and    <U+0095> the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business.. Should any of these events occur, they could significantly harm our business and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Being a Public Company. We expect that our stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including:. <U+0095> actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results;    <U+0095> announcements by us, our partners or our competitors of new products, significant contracts, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations, commercial relationships or capital commitments;    <U+0095> competition from existing products or new products that may emerge;    <U+0095> failure to meet or exceed financial estimates and projections of the investment community or that we provide to the public;     <U+0095> issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts or recommendations for our stock;     <U+0095> adverse regulatory announcements;    <U+0095> disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;    <U+0095> commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation;    <U+0095> fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;    <U+0095> market conditions in our markets;    <U+0095> manufacturing disputes or delays;    <U+0095> any future sales of our common stock or other securities;    <U+0095> any change to the composition of the board of directors or key personnel;    <U+0095> expiration of the contractual lock-up agreements with our executive officers, directors and security holders entered into in connection with our initial public offering;    <U+0095> general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets;    <U+0095> share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;     <U+0095> announcement or expectation of additional debt or equity financing efforts; and    <U+0095> other factors described in this Risk Factor section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. These and other market and industry factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, regardless of our actual operating performance, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and life. 64. Table of Contents. science companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have on occasion instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, the defense and disposition of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management and harm our operating results.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issues an adverse opinion about our company, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the public markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors and 5% or greater stockholders owned approximately 64% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have significant influence over our operations. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove the board of directors or management.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. Of the 21,937,510 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 1, 2018, approximately 16,991,531 shares are currently subject to restrictions on transfer under lock-up arrangements with the underwriters for our initial public offering. These restrictions are due to expire June 4, 2018, resulting in these shares becoming eligible for public sale on June 5, 2018 if they are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the Securities Act, or if they qualify for an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, including under Rules 144 or 701. Moreover, holders of an aggregate of 14,721,351 shares of our common stock will have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We also intend to register all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity incentive plans or that are issuable upon exercise of outstanding options. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates and the lock-up agreements described above. If any of these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline.. 65. Table of Contents. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, any gains from an investment in our common stock will likely depend on whether the price of our common stock increases.. We have not paid dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of our indebtedness with Hercules prohibit us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Consequently, in the foreseeable future, you will likely only experience a gain from an investment in our common stock if the price of our common stock increases.. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash and cash equivalents, including the net proceeds from our initial public offering, and may not use these financial resources effectively, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. Our management has broad discretion in the application our cash and cash equivalents, including the net proceeds from our initial public offering, and you will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these financial resources. Our management might not apply these financial proceeds in ways that ultimately increase the value of your investment. If we do not invest or apply these financial resources in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated by-laws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. Our restated certificate of incorporation, restated by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:. <U+0095> authorizing our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as our board of directors may determine;    <U+0095> specifying that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors and that our stockholders may not act by written consent;    <U+0095> establishing an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;    <U+0095> providing that directors may be removed only for cause;    <U+0095> providing that our board of directors may create new directorships and that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum;    <U+0095> establishing that our board of directors is divided into three classes - Class I, Class II, and Class III - with each class serving staggered three-year terms;    <U+0095> providing that our board of directors may amend our restated by-laws without stockholder approval; and     <U+0095> requiring a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management.. 66. Table of Contents. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock.. Any provision of our restated certificate of incorporation, restated by-laws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and are able to avail ourselves of reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, and we plan to avail ourselves of the ability to adopt new accounting standards on the timeline permitted for private companies, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors and our financial statements less comparable to other companies who are complying with new accounting standards on public company timelines.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to take advantage of the extended transition period afforded by the JOBS Act for the implementation of new or revised accounting standards and, as a result, will comply with new or revised accounting standards not later than the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-public companies. There are currently accounting standards that are expected to affect the financial reporting of many public companies as early as the first calendar quarter of 2018, including ASC 606, Revenue from contracts with customers. As a result of this election, the timeline to comply with these standards will in many cases be delayed as compared to other public companies who are not eligible to have made or have not made this election. For more information on the effect of this election, including the timing of when we currently plan to adopt certain accounting standards that could materially affect our financial statements, refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, investors may view our financial statements as not comparable to other public companies. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more; (ii) December 31, 2022; (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in nonconvertible debt during the previous three years; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC.. 67. Table of Contents. We incur increased costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, and these expenses may increase even more after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, as well as rules adopted, and to be adopted, by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The increased costs increase our net loss. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the sufficient coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers.. In addition, as a public company we incur additional costs and obligations in order to comply with SEC rules that implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Under these rules, beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2018, we will be required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and once we cease to be an emerging growth company, we will be required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaging in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are designed and operating effectively, and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting."
