[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Our operating results are heavily dependent on sales of our influenza diagnostic tests and if sales or revenues of our influenza tests decline for any reason, our operating results would be materially and adversely affected on a disproportionate basis.. Although we continue to diversify our products, a significant percentage of our total revenues still continue to come from a limited number of our product families. In particular, revenues from the sale of our influenza tests represent a significant portion of our total revenues and are expected to remain so for at least the near future. In addition, the gross margins derived from sales of our influenza tests are significantly higher than the gross margins from many of our other core products. As a result, if sales or revenues of our influenza tests decline for any reason whether as a result of market share loss or price pressure, obsolescence, a mild flu season, regulatory matters or any other reason our operating results would be materially and adversely affected on a disproportionate basis. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, sales of our influenza products accounted for 39%, 37%, and 43% respectively, of total revenue.. Our operating results may fluctuate adversely as a result of many factors that are outside our control, which may negatively impact our stock price.. Fluctuations in customer demand, or operating or integration costs, for any reason, could cause our growth or operating results to fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts.. We base the scope of our operations and related expenses on our estimates of future revenues. A significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed, and we may not be able to rapidly adjust our expenses if our revenues fall short of our expectations. Our revenue estimates for future periods are based, among other factors, on estimated end-user demand for our products. If end-user consumption is less than estimated, revenues from our distribution partners and other distribution channels would be expected to fall short of expectations, and because such a significant portion of our costs are fixed, could result in operating losses.. Factors that are beyond our control and that could affect our operating results in the future include:. • timing of the onset, length and severity of the cold and flu seasons;. • seasonal fluctuations in our sales of influenza disease tests, which are generally highest in fall and winter, thus resulting in generally lower operating results in the second and third calendar quarters and higher operating results in the first and fourth calendar quarters;. • government and media attention focused on influenza and the related potential impact on humans from novel influenza viruses, such as H1N1 and avian flu;. • changes in the level of competition, such as would occur if one of our competitors introduced a new, better performing or lower priced product to compete with one or more of our products;. • changes in the reimbursement systems or reimbursement amounts that end-users may rely upon in choosing to use our products;. • changes in economic conditions in our domestic and international markets, such as economic downturns, decreased healthcare spending, reduced consumer demand, inflation and currency fluctuations and changes in government laws and regulations affecting our business;. • lower than anticipated market penetration of our new or more recently introduced products;. • significant quantities of our products or those of our competitors in our distributors' inventories or distribution channels;. • changes in distributor buying patterns; and. • changes in the healthcare market, including consolidation in our customer base.. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, obtain and protect our proprietary technology rights; otherwise, we may lose market share or need to reduce prices as a result of competitors selling lower priced or technologically superior products that compete with our products.. Our ability to compete successfully in the diagnostic market depends on continued development and introduction of new proprietary technology and the improvement of existing technology. If we cannot continue to improve upon or develop, obtain and protect proprietary technology, we may lose market share or need to reduce prices as a result of competitors selling lower. 16. priced or technologically superior products that compete with our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected.. Our competitive position is heavily dependent on obtaining and protecting our own proprietary technology or obtaining licenses from others. Our ability to obtain patents and licenses, and their benefits, is uncertain.. • We have issued patents both in the U.S. and internationally, with expiration dates ranging from the present through approximately 2035. In addition to our patents in the U.S., we have patents issued in various other countries including, among others, Australia, Canada, Japan, various European countries, including France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, and South Africa. Additionally, we have patent applications pending in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. These pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, or if issued, may not have priority over others' applications or may not offer meaningful protection against competitors with similar technology or may not otherwise provide commercial value. Moreover, any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, found unenforceable or circumvented in the future. Third parties can make, use and sell products covered by our patents in any country in which we do not have patent protection.. • We also license the right to use our products to our customers under label licenses that are for research purposes only. These licenses could be contested and, because we cannot monitor all potential unauthorized uses of our proprietary technology around the world, we might not be aware of an unauthorized use or might not be able to enforce the license restrictions in a cost-effective manner.. • Our current and future licenses may not be adequate for the operation of our business. In the future, we expect that we will require or desire additional licenses from other parties in order to refine our products further and to allow us to develop, manufacture and market commercially viable or superior products. We may not be able to obtain licenses for technology patented by others and required to produce our products on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. To protect or enforce our patent rights, it may be necessary for us to initiate patent litigation proceedings against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. These lawsuits would be expensive, take significant time and could divert management's attention from other business concerns. In the event that we seek to enforce any of our patents against an infringing party, it is likely that the party defending the claim will seek to invalidate the patents we assert, which could put our patents at risk of being invalidated, held unenforceable, or interpreted narrowly, and our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Further, these lawsuits may provoke the defendants to assert claims against us. If we pursue any such claim, there will be no assurance that will prevail in any of such suits or proceedings or that the damages or other remedies awarded to us, if any, will be economically valuable.. In addition to our patents, we rely on confidentiality agreements and other similar arrangements with our employees and other persons who have access to our proprietary and confidential information, together with trade secrets and other common law rights, to protect our proprietary and confidential technology. These agreements and laws may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information or in the event that our competitors independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Moreover, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those in the U.S. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information, if we encounter difficulties or are otherwise unable to effectively protect our intellectual property rights domestically or in foreign jurisdictions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. In order to remain competitive and profitable, we must expend considerable resources to research new technologies and products and develop new markets, and there is no assurance our efforts to develop new technologies, products or markets will be successful or such technologies, products or markets will be commercially viable.. We devote a significant amount of financial and other resources to researching and developing new technologies, new products and new markets. The development, manufacture and sale of diagnostic products and new technologies require a significant investment of resources. The development of new markets also requires a substantial investment of resources, such as new employees, offices and manufacturing facilities. No assurances can be given that our efforts to develop new technologies or products will be successful, that such technologies and products will be commercially viable, or our expansion into new markets will be profitable.. We expect to incur significant operating expenses as a result of continued investment in sales and marketing activities, manufacturing scale-up and new product development associated with our efforts to accomplish our business strategies discussed in \"Business - Business Strategy\" in Part I of this Annual Report. No assurance can be given that we will be successful in implementing our operational, growth and other strategic efforts. In addition, the funds for our strategic. 17. development projects have in the past come primarily from our business operations, borrowings under available lines of credit and the sale of equity or debt securities. If our business slows and we become less profitable, and as a result have less money available to fund research and development, we may have to reduce or eliminate programs. Similarly, if adequate financial, personnel, equipment or other resources are not available, we may be required to delay or scale back our strategic efforts.. Our operations will be adversely affected if our operating results do not correspondingly increase with our increased expenditures or if our technology, product and market development efforts are unsuccessful or delayed. Furthermore, our failure to successfully introduce new technologies or products and develop new markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. We rely on a limited number of key distributors that account for a significant portion of our total revenue. The loss of any key distributor or an unsuccessful effort by us to directly distribute our products could lead to reduced sales.. Although we have many distributor relationships in the U.S., the market is dominated by a small number of these distributors. Three of our distributors, which are considered to be among the market leaders, collectively accounted (each individually in excess of 10%) for approximately 54%, 44%, and 48% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, we rely on a few key distributors for a majority of our international sales, and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. The loss or termination of our relationship with any of these key distributors could significantly disrupt our business unless suitable alternatives are timely found or lost sales to one distributor are absorbed by another distributor. Finding a suitable alternative to a lost or terminated distributor may pose challenges in our industry's competitive environment, and another suitable distributor may not be found on satisfactory terms, if at all. For instance, some distributors already have exclusive arrangements with our competitors, and others do not have the same level of penetration into our target markets as our existing distributors. If total revenue from these or any of our other significant distributors were to decrease in any material amount in the future or we are not successful in timely transitioning business to new distributors, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Intellectual property risks and third-party claims of infringement, misappropriation of proprietary rights or other claims against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign our products or attempt to seek licenses from third parties, and materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the defense of such claims could result in significant costs and divert the attention of our management and other key employees.. Companies in or related to our industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. In developing and producing new products and entering new markets, we may not be able to obtain, at reasonable cost or upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all, licenses to intellectual property of others that is alleged to be part of such new or existing products. From time to time, we have received, and may continue to receive, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused other parties' proprietary rights. Moreover, in the past we have been engaged in litigation with parties that claim, among other matters, that we infringed their patents.. We have hired and will continue to hire individuals or contractors who have experience in medical diagnostics and these individuals or contractors may have confidential trade secret or proprietary information of third parties. We cannot assure you that these individuals or contractors will not use this third-party information in connection with performing services for us or otherwise reveal this third-party information to us. Thus, we could be sued for misappropriation of proprietary information and trade secrets. Such claims are expensive to defend and could divert our attention and result in substantial damage awards and injunctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, to the extent that individuals or contractors apply technical or scientific information independently developed by them to our projects, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such data and may result in litigation.. The defense and prosecution of patent and trade secret claims are both costly and time consuming. We or our customers may be sued by other parties that claim that our products have infringed their patents or misappropriated their proprietary rights or that may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. An adverse determination in any of these types of disputes could prevent us from manufacturing or selling some of our products, limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved with such products may perform for us, increase our costs and expose us to significant liability.. As a general matter, our involvement in litigation or in any claims to determine proprietary rights, as may arise from time to time, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations for reasons such as:. • it may of itself cause our distributors or end-users to reduce or terminate purchases of our products;. • it may consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources;. • the outcome of such litigation would be uncertain and a court may find any third-party patent claims valid and infringed by our products (issuing a preliminary or permanent injunction) that would require us to procure costly. 18. licensing arrangements from third parties or withdraw or recall such products from the market, redesign such products offered for sale or under development or restrict employees from performing work in their areas of expertise;. • governmental agencies may commence investigations or criminal proceedings against our employees, former employees and us relating to claims of misappropriation or misuse of another party's proprietary rights;. • an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liability in the form of past royalty payments, penalties, special and punitive damages, the opposing party's attorneys' fees, and future royalty payments significantly affecting our future earnings; and. • failure to obtain a necessary license (upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all) upon an adverse outcome could prevent us from selling our current products or other products we may develop.. Even if licenses to intellectual property rights are available, they can be costly. We have entered into various licensing agreements, which largely require payments based on specified product sales as well as the achievement of specific milestones. Royalty and license expenses under these arrangements collectively totaled $0.6 million, $0.8 million and $1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. In addition to the foregoing, we may also be required to indemnify certain customers, distributors and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if a third party alleges or if a court finds that our products or activities have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another person's proprietary rights. Further, our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties such as contractors, suppliers or customers. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. Our contractors, suppliers and licensors may not be required or financially able to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages.. We may need to raise additional funds to finance our future capital or operating needs, which could have adverse consequences on our operations and the interests of our stockholders.. Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results could limit the cash we have available for research and development and other operating needs. As a result, we may need to seek to raise funds through the issuance of public or private debt or the sale of equity to achieve our business strategy. In addition, we may need funds to complete acquisitions, or may issue equity in connection with acquisitions. If we raise funds or acquire other technologies or businesses through issuance of equity, this could dilute the interests of our stockholders. Moreover, the availability of additional capital, whether debt or equity from private capital sources (including banks) or the public capital markets, fluctuates as our financial condition and industry or market conditions in general change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we would not be able to access capital from these sources on favorable terms, if at all. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital.. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers.. If our customers' or suppliers' operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, our customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us, and our suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms or reduce or terminate production of products they supply to us. Any inability of customers to pay us for our products and services, or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, both state and federal government sponsored and private payers, as a result of budget deficits or reductions, may seek to reduce their healthcare expenditures by renegotiating their contracts with us. Any reduction in payments by such government sponsored or private payers may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.. We may not achieve market acceptance of our products among healthcare providers and physicians, and this would have a negative effect on future sales.. A large part of our business is based on the sale of rapid POC diagnostic tests. Our future sales depend on, among other matters, capture of sales from central laboratories by achieving market acceptance of POC testing from physicians and other healthcare providers. If we do not capture sales at the levels anticipated in our budget, our total revenue will not be at the levels that we expect and the costs we incur or have incurred will be disproportionate to our sales levels. We expect that clinical reference and hospital-based laboratories will continue to compete vigorously against our POC diagnostic products in order to. 19. maintain and expand their existing dominance of the overall diagnostic testing market. Moreover, even if we can demonstrate that our products are more cost-effective, save time, or have better performance, physicians and other healthcare providers may resist changing to POC tests. Our failure to achieve market acceptance from physicians and healthcare providers with respect to the use of our POC diagnostic products would have a negative effect on our future sales.. The industry and market segment in which we operate are highly competitive, and intense competition with other providers of diagnostic products may reduce our sales and margins.. Our diagnostic tests compete with similar products made by our competitors. There are a large number of multinational and regional competitors making investments in competing technologies and products, including several large pharmaceutical and diversified healthcare companies. We also face competition from our distributors as some have created, and others may decide to create, their own products to compete with ours. A number of our competitors have competitive advantages, such as substantially greater financial, technical, research and other resources, and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution and service organizations than we have. Moreover, some competitors offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than we have. Our operating results could be materially and adversely affected if:. • our competitors' products are more effective than ours or take market share from our products through more effective marketing or competitive pricing;. • our competitors obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that prevent us from offering competing products or services; or. • our competitors are able to obtain regulatory approvals for products or services or otherwise bring competing products to market earlier than us.. In addition, there has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets over the last few years. We may not be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated industry. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations.. Our business and products are highly regulated by various governmental agencies. Our results of operations would be negatively affected by failures or delays in the receipt of regulatory approvals or clearances, the loss of previously received approvals or other changes to existing laws and regulations that adversely impact our ability to manufacture and market our products.. The testing, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S., principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates most of our products, which are currently all Class I or II devices. The U.S. Department of Agriculture regulates our veterinary products. Our future performance depends on, among other matters, if, when and at what cost we will receive regulatory approval or clearances for new products. Regulatory review can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, making the timing and costs of clearances and approvals difficult to predict. Similarly, conducting clinical studies that may be required for regulatory approvals or clearances is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process, requiring months or years to complete, and our studies are not guaranteed to generate data that demonstrate safety and effectiveness or substantial equivalence of the evaluated product.. In addition, after we obtain necessary clearances or approvals to market our products, the FDA and other regulatory agencies may require post-market testing and additional surveillance to monitor the performance and use of approved products or may place conditions on any product approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of those products. Our results of operations would be negatively affected by failures or delays in the receipt of regulatory approvals or clearances, changes in laws and regulations, the loss of previously received approvals or clearances or the placement of limits on the manufacture, marketing and use of our products. For example, prior to our acquisition of the Triage products, the Summers Ridge, San Diego facility was subject to a 2012 FDA inspection that resulted in recalls of Triage products and revised release specifications for certain Triage meter-based products, which has not formally been closed-out with the FDA until after a future inspection. We cannot assure you that the government will find efforts to resolve the FDA warning letter to be satisfactory. We cannot predict whether other governments' regulatory authorities will require additional remedial or corrective actions in the future, and the issues arising out of the FDA inspection may be expanded to cover other matters.. Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business, we must frequently make subjective judgments with respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If regulators subsequently disagree with the manner in which we have sought to comply with these regulations, we could be subjected to substantial civil and criminal penalties, as well as field corrective actions, product recalls, seizures or injunctions with respect to the sale of our products. The assessment of any civil and criminal penalties against us could severely impair our reputation within the industry and affect our operating results, and any limitation on our ability to manufacture and market our products could also have a material adverse effect on our business.. 20. Changes in government policy could adversely affect our business and profitability.. Changes in government policy could have a significant impact on our business by increasing the cost of doing business, affecting our ability to sell our products and negatively impacting our profitability. Such changes could include modifications to existing legislation, such as U.S. tax policy, or entirely new legislation, such as the Affordable Healthcare Act (\"AHA\") in the U.S. Although we cannot fully predict the many ways that healthcare reform might affect our business, the AHA imposed a 2.3% medical device excise tax (\"MDET\") on certain transactions, including many U.S. sales of medical devices, which includes the majority of our U.S. product sales. This tax took effect January 1, 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2015, we incurred $2.1 million related to the MDET, and although the MDET was suspended for 2016, 2017 and a two-year moratorium was recently implemented for 2018 and 2019, it may be reinstated. It is unclear whether and to what extent, if at all, other anticipated developments, including changes due to governmental administrative priorities, or changes resulting from healthcare reform, such as a change in the number of people with health insurance, may impact us.. We are subject to, and may in the future become subject to, claims and litigation that could result in significant expenses and could ultimately result in an unfavorable outcome for us.. From time to time, we are involved in litigation and other proceedings, including matters related to product liability claims, commercial disputes and intellectual property claims, as well as  regulatory, employment, and other claims related to our business. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse decision could result in significant settlement amounts, monetary damages, fines or injunctive relief that could affect our financial condition or results of operations. Even if lawsuits do not result in an unfavorable outcome, the costs of defending such lawsuits may be material to our business and our operations. Moreover, these lawsuits may divert management's attention from the operation of our business, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. For example, as further described in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, Beckman Coulter, Inc. (\"Beckman\") filed a lawsuit against us in November 2017, relating to a contractual arrangement with Beckman we acquired in October 2017 for the supply of antibodies and other inputs related to, and distribution of, the Triage® BNP Test for the Beckman Coulter Access Family of Immunoassay Systems and the outcome of such lawsuit may affect the value of the assets and liabilities we acquired and expose us to monetary liability.  While we believe that the claims in the lawsuit are without merit, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in defending the claims. If this lawsuit, or any other lawsuit filed against us, is resolved against us, we may be liable for significant damages and restraints on our business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to numerous government regulations in addition to FDA regulation, and compliance with laws, including changed or new laws, could increase our costs and adversely affect our operations.. In addition to FDA and other regulations referred to above, numerous laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, employment practices, data privacy, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances impact our business or operations. If these laws or their interpretation change or new laws regulating any of our businesses or operations are adopted, the costs of compliance with these laws could substantially increase our overall costs. Failure to comply with any laws, including laws regulating the manufacture and marketing of our products, could result in substantial costs and loss of sales or customers. Because of the number and extent of the laws and regulations affecting our industry, and the number of governmental agencies whose actions could affect our operations, it is impossible to reliably predict the full nature and impact of future legislation or regulatory developments relating to our industry and our products. To the extent the costs and procedures associated with meeting new or changing requirements are substantial, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We use hazardous materials in our business that may result in unexpected and substantial claims against us relating to handling, storage or disposal.. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. These regulations include federal statutes commonly known as CERCLA, RCRA and the Clean Water Act. Compliance with these laws and regulations is already expensive. If any governmental authorities impose new environmental regulations requiring compliance in addition to that required by existing regulations, or alter their interpretation of the requirements of such existing regulations, such environmental regulations could impair our research, development or production efforts by imposing additional, and possibly substantial, costs, restrictions or compliance procedures on our business or operations. In addition, because of the nature of the penalties provided for in some of these environmental regulations, we could be required to pay sizable fines, penalties or damages in the event of noncompliance with environmental laws. Any environmental violation or remediation requirement could also partially or completely shut down our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these. 21. hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated and exposure of individuals to these materials could result in substantial fines, penalties or damages that are not covered by insurance.. Our total revenue could be affected by third-party reimbursement policies and potential cost constraints.. The end-users of our products are primarily physicians and other healthcare providers. In the U.S., healthcare providers such as hospitals and physicians who purchase diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payers, principally private health insurance plans, federal Medicare and state Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the procedure. Use of our products would be adversely impacted if physicians and other healthcare providers do not receive adequate reimbursement for the cost of our products by their patients' third-party payers. Our total revenue could also be adversely affected by changes or trends in reimbursement policies of these governmental or private healthcare payers. We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both foreign and domestic, to reduce the cost of products and services. Given the efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs in the U.S. in recent years, currently available levels of reimbursement may not continue to be available in the future for our existing products or products under development. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available or adequate in either the U.S. or foreign markets, current reimbursement amounts may be decreased in the future and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers may reduce the demand for our products or adversely impact our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis.. Billing and payment for healthcare services are highly regulated, and the failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in civil or criminal sanctions, including exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs.. A portion of our healthcare products and services are paid for by private and governmental third-party payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These third-party payers typically have different and complex billing and documentation requirements that we must satisfy in order to receive payment, and they carefully audit and monitor our compliance with these requirements. Such audits may lead to determinations that certain claims should not have been paid, and payors may seek to recoup or offset amounts they assert have been paid in error.. We must also comply with numerous other laws applicable to billing and payment for healthcare services, including privacy laws. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in non-payment, refunds, exclusion from government healthcare programs and civil or criminal liabilities, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings. and cash flows. In addition, failure by third-party payers to properly process our payment claims in a timely manner could delay our receipt of payment for our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows.. Unexpected increases in, or inability to meet, demand for our products could require us to spend considerable resources to meet the demand or harm our reputation and customer relationships if we are unable to meet demand.. Our inability to meet customer demand for our products, whether as a result of manufacturing problems or supply shortfalls, could harm our customer relationships and impair our reputation within the industry. In addition, our product manufacturing of certain product lines is concentrated in one or more of our manufacturing sites. Weather, natural disasters (including pandemics), fires, terrorism, political change, failure to follow specific internal protocols and procedures, equipment malfunction, environmental factors or damage to one or more of our facilities could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we experience unexpected increases in the demand for our products or supply shortfalls, we may be required to expend additional capital resources to meet these demands. These capital resources could involve the cost of new machinery or even the cost of new manufacturing facilities. This would increase our capital costs, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash resources. If we are unable to develop or obtain necessary manufacturing capabilities in a timely manner, our total revenue could be adversely affected. Failure to cost-effectively increase production volumes, if required, or lower than anticipated yields or production problems, including those encountered as a result of changes that we may make in our manufacturing processes to meet increased demand or changes in applicable laws and regulations, could result in shipment delays as well as increased manufacturing costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition.. Unexpected increases in demand for our products or supply shortfalls could also require us to obtain additional raw materials in order to manufacture products to meet the demand. Some raw materials require significant ordering lead time and we may not be able to timely access sufficient raw materials in the event of an unexpected increase in demand or supply shortfall, particularly those obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers.. 22. Interruptions in the supply of raw materials and other products and services could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. We depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or components and materials used in our products. Some of our raw materials, equipment and components are currently obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We have long-term supply agreements with many of these suppliers, but these long-term agreements involve risks for us, such as our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of quality raw materials, equipment or components and our reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. It is also possible that one or more of these suppliers may become unwilling or unable to deliver materials or components to us. In addition, due to regulatory requirements relating to the qualification of suppliers, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement sources on a timely basis or without excessive cost. Any shortfall in our supply of raw materials, equipment or components, or our inability to quickly and cost-effectively obtain alternative sources for this supply, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. In addition, we use third party packaging companies to ship our products to customers. An interruption in the businesses of these third party packaging companies could result in a delay of shipments to customers.. If one or more of our products is claimed to be defective, we could be subject to claims of liability and harm to our reputation that could adversely affect our business.. Our business involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. Our product development and production processes are complex and could expose our products to claims of defectiveness. Alleged manufacturing and design defects could lead to recalls (either voluntary or required by the FDA or other government authorities) and could result in the removal of one or more of our products from the market. Similarly, a defect in one of our diagnostic products could lead to a false positive or false negative result, affecting the eventual diagnosis or treatment. Any such defects may require the payment of significant amounts in damages in connection with lawsuits. A defect or claim of a defect in the design or manufacture of our products could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry. Moreover, any product liability or other claim brought against us regardless of merit, could be costly to defend.. We are exposed to business risk which, if not covered by insurance, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We face a number of business risks, including exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain insurance for a number of these risks, we may face claims for types of damages, or for amounts of damages, that are not covered by our insurance. For example, although we currently carry product liability insurance for liability losses, there is a risk that product liability or other claims may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of our policy. Also, our existing insurance may not be renewed at the same cost and level of coverage as currently in effect, or may not be renewed at all. Further, we do not currently have insurance against many environmental risks we confront in our business. If we are held liable for a claim against which we are not insured or for damages exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage, whether arising out of product liability matters, cybersecurity matters, or from some other matter, that claim could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Failures in our information technology and storage systems could significantly disrupt our business or force us to expend excessive costs.. We utilize complex information technology systems to support our business and process, transmit, and store information, including sensitive personal information and proprietary or confidential information. We cannot be sure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that necessary upgrades will operate as designed, which could result in excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business. In particular, any disruptions, delays or deficiencies caused by our enterprise resource planning system could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our systems, sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, could result in a material disruption in our operations.. Our ability to protect our information systems and electronic transmissions of sensitive data from data corruption, cyber-based attacks, security breaches or privacy violations is critical to the success of our business.. Although we invest in security technology designed to protect our data against risks of data security breaches and cyber-attacks, and we have implemented solutions, processes and procedures to help mitigate these risks at various locations, such as encryption, virus protection, security firewalls and information security and privacy policies, our information technology and. 23. infrastructure are subject to attacks by hackers and may be breached due to inadequacy or ineffectiveness of the protective measures undertaken, employee errors or omissions, malfeasance or other disruptions. A security breach or privacy violation that leads to disclosure of consumer information (including personally identifiable information or protected health information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate state and foreign breach notification laws and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.. Despite our efforts to protect against cyber-attacks and security breaches, hackers and other cyber criminals are using increasingly sophisticated and constantly evolving techniques, and we may need to expend substantial additional resources to continue to protect against potential security breaches or to address problems caused by such attacks or any breach of our safeguards. In addition, a data security breach could distract management or other key personnel from performing their primary operational duties.. The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. Among other things, foreign privacy laws impose significant obligations on U.S. companies to protect the personal information of foreign citizens. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Our business could be negatively affected by the loss of or the inability to hire key personnel.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to retain our key technical, sales, marketing and executive personnel and our ability to identify and hire additional qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, both in the industry in which we operate and where our operations are located. Further, we expect to grow our operations, and our needs for additional management and other key personnel are expected to increase. If we are not able to retain existing key personnel, or timely identify and hire replacement or additional qualified personnel to meet expected growth, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, the loss of any of our key personnel, particularly key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operation or strategic objectives.. We face risks relating to our international sales, including inherent economic, political and regulatory risks, that could impact our financial performance, cause interruptions in our current business operations and impede our growth strategy.. Our products are sold internationally, with the majority of our international sales to our customers in Europe and Asia-Pacific. We currently sell and market our products through direct sales, distributor organizations and sales agents. Sales to foreign customers accounted for 18%, 17%, and 14% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. and are expected to increase as a percentage of our total revenue in 2018 and beyond as a result of our acquisition of the Triage and BNP Businesses in the fourth quarter of 2017. Our international operations are subject to inherent economic, political and regulatory risks, which could impact our financial performance, cause interruptions in our current business operations and impede our international growth. These foreign risks include, among others:. • compliance with multiple different registration requirements and new and changing registration requirements, our inability to benefit from registration for our products inasmuch as registrations may be controlled by a distributor, and the difficulty in transitioning our product registrations;. • compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including U.S. laws such as import/export limitations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, could expose us or our employees to fines and criminal sanctions and damage our reputation;. • tariffs or other barriers as we continue to expand into new countries and geographic regions;. • exposure to currency exchange fluctuations against the U.S. dollar;. • longer payment cycles, generally lower average selling prices and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and enforcing agreements with foreign entities;. • reduced, or lack of, protection for, and enforcement of, intellectual property rights;. • social, political and economic instability in some of the regions where we currently sell our products or that we may expand into in the future;. • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. • complex and potentially adverse tax consequences; and. 24. • diversion to the U.S. of our products sold into international markets at lower prices.. Our international operations are governed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption laws outside the U.S. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws has increased substantially in recent years, with more enforcement proceedings by U.S. and foreign governmental agencies and the imposition of significant fines and penalties. While we have. implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws, our international operations, which may involve customer relationships with foreign governments, create the risk that there may be unauthorized payments or offers of payments made by employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors. Any alleged or actual violations of these laws may subject us to government investigations, significant criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, and negatively affect our reputation.. Currently, the majority of our international sales are negotiated for and paid in U.S. dollars. Nonetheless, these sales are subject to currency risks, since changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar can render our products comparatively more expensive. These exchange rate fluctuations could negatively impact international sales of our products, as could changes in the general economic conditions in those markets. In order to maintain a competitive price for our products internationally, we may have to continue to provide discounts or otherwise effectively reduce our prices, resulting in a lower margin on products sold internationally. Continued change in the values of the Euro, the Chinese Renminbi, the Japanese Yen and other foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we have certain supply agreements with foreign vendors whereby we share the foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. We may, in the future, enter into similar arrangements.. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities or assessments could affect our profitability.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. Due to the potential for changes to tax laws (or changes to the interpretation thereof) and the ambiguity of tax laws, the subjectivity of factual interpretations, the complexity of our intercompany arrangements and other factors, our estimates of income tax assets or liabilities may differ from actual payments, assessments or receipts. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities and our financial statements could be adversely affected. If we determine to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions that have been considered permanently re-invested under existing accounting standards, it could also increase our effective tax rate. In addition, any significant change to the tax system in the United States or in other jurisdictions (including changes in the taxation of international income as further described below) could adversely affect our financial statements.. Risks Related to Our Acquisitions. Our acquisition of Alere's Triage® and BNP Businesses presents certain risks to our business and operations. On October 6, 2017, we acquired the Triage and BNP Businesses from Alere. See Note 12 in this Annual Report for additional information concerning these acquisitions. The acquisition of these businesses, and the transition and integration process related thereto, present certain risks to our business and operations, including, among other things, risks that:. • we may be unable to successfully transition and integrate the businesses, and we may experience business interruptions during transition and integration;. • we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions, including those anticipated to arise from reducing costs, making product and process improvements and developing new products;. • we may lose management personnel and other key employees and be unable to attract and retain personnel and employees;. • management's attention and our other resources may be focused on integration activities instead of on day-to-day management activities, including pursuing other beneficial opportunities;. • we may incur substantial unexpected integration or transition related costs;. • the deferred consideration payable to Alere for the BNP Business will be payable even if BNP sales are significantly reduced, or even terminate, whether as a result of the introduction of a competing product, a determination that provisions of the contractual arrangement with Beckman are unenforceable or otherwise, and such payment obligations may significantly exceed the revenues from such business;. • we may not be able to successfully or efficiently manage our foreign expansion, and the acquired businesses will increase our exposure and risks related to foreign markets;. • we may be subject to claims, litigation, other legal proceedings and liabilities and damages in connection with the businesses and assets acquired in the acquisitions, some of which may not be covered in full, if at all, by the. 25. indemnification provisions provided for in the acquisition agreements, and even if indemnified, may be disruptive to our business;. • we may not be able to receive required regulatory approvals or clearances relating to the acquired businesses and the acquired products, or may lose previously received regulatory approvals or clearances;. • in certain international markets, the marketing authorizations to sell the acquired products will continue to be held by Alere post-closing until the authorizations can be transferred to us through the applicable regulatory process, and such deferred transfers have additional risks, including:. <U+25E6> we may not timely receive such authorizations, if at all, or may encounter unexpected difficulties and costs in receiving the authorizations;. <U+25E6> we may have less control over the acquired businesses until the deferred transfers occur;. <U+25E6> completion of the acquisitions may trigger assignment or other provisions in certain commercial contracts to which Alere was a party, such that counterparties may potentially have the right to terminate the contracts; and. <U+25E6> launching branding or rebranding initiatives may involve substantial costs and may not be favorably received by customers.. Alere may fail to perform under various transition agreements that were entered into as part of our acquisition of the Triage and BNP Businesses and we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transition services expire.. In connection with the acquisition of the Triage and BNP Businesses, we entered into a number of agreements with Alere, including transition services agreements and a manufacturing and supply agreement. Certain of these agreements will provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the closing of the acquisitions of the Triage and BNP Businesses. If Alere is unable or unwilling to satisfy its payment or performance obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and business. In addition, if the costs that we must pay for the services under these agreements significantly increase this could affect our profitability. Moreover, if we do not have our own systems and services in place, or if we do not have agreements in place with other providers of these services when the term of a particular transition service terminates (whether at the end of the term or as a result of an early termination), we may not be able to operate our business effectively, and the cost of such systems and services may be greater than what is provided under the transition services.. As we build our information technology infrastructure and transition the Triage and BNP Businesses to our own systems, we could incur substantial additional costs and experience temporary business interruptions.. We are installing and implementing information technology infrastructure to support critical business functions relating to the Triage and BNP Businesses, including accounting and reporting, customer service, inventory control and distribution, billing and receivables collection, as well as order entry, warehousing and other administrative services. Under the transition services agreements with Alere, Alere is required to provide services both inside and outside the United States, including back office services, for up to two years following the closings of the acquisitions of the Triage and BNP Businesses. The services provided include information technology, billing and receivables collection, as well as order entry, warehousing, and certain other administrative services. These transition services agreements allow us to operate the Triage and BNP Businesses prior to establishing our back office infrastructure and information technology systems to accommodate the Triage and BNP Businesses. Our failure to avoid operational interruptions as we implement the new systems and information technology could disrupt our integration of the Triage and BNP Businesses and have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions of other businesses become impaired, we may be required to take significant charges against earnings.. As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded, and may continue to record, a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under current accounting standards, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against earnings, which could materially reduce our reported results of operations in future periods.. If we are not able to manage our growth strategy or if we experience difficulties identifying or integrating companies or technologies we may acquire, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our business strategy contemplates further growth, which we expect to result in expanding the scope of operating and financial systems and the geographical area of our operations, including further expansion outside the U.S., as new products. 26. and technologies are developed and commercialized or new geographical markets are entered. Because we have a relatively small executive staff, acquisitions and other future growth may divert management's attention from other aspects of our business, and place a strain on existing management and our operational, financial and management information systems. Furthermore, we may expand into markets in which we have less experience or incur higher costs. Some of our growth is expected to come from acquisitions of businesses and technologies. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully identify and acquire attractive targets.  Other risks associated with acquiring other technologies or businesses, include: inability to obtain financing for acquisitions on satisfactory terms or at all; difficulties integrating the operations of companies or technologies that we acquire with our own operations; diversion of the attention of management and key personnel from our core business; adverse effects on our existing business relationships; potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; write-downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated with the acquisitions; and we may not realize our anticipated benefits and cost savings within our expected time frame, or at all, or may experience unexpected costs. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify, complete and integrate strategic acquisitions. Should we encounter difficulties in managing these tasks and risks, our growth strategy may suffer and our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected.. Risk Factors Related to our Indebtedness. Our substantial debt could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. On October 6, 2017, we entered into a $270.0 million five-year senior secured credit facility (the \"Senior Credit Facility\"), consisting of a $245.0 million Term Loan, all of which was borrowed at the closing, and a $25.0 million Revolving Credit Facility, $10.0 million of which was borrowed at the closing. The Senior Credit Facility includes an accordion feature that allows the borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility to be increased by $50 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed description of the Credit Agreement. We also have outstanding indebtedness under our Convertible Senior Notes described in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and may incur other indebtedness from time to time.. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences to our business and operating results, including:. • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes may be impaired;. • a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities must be dedicated to the payment of our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests;. • some of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in market interest rates;. • our debt agreements contain, and any agreements to refinance our debt likely will contain, financial and other restrictive covenants, and our failure to comply with them may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us;. • our level of indebtedness will increase our vulnerability to, and reduce our flexibility to respond to, general economic downturns and adverse industry and business conditions;. • as our long-term debt ages, we may need to renegotiate or repay such debt or seek additional financing;. • to the extent the debt we incur requires collateral to secure such indebtedness, our assets could be at risk and our flexibility related to such assets could be limited;. • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and. • our level of indebtedness may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, and any inability to repay our debt when due would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to make scheduled or other required payments on our debt obligations and maintain a desired level of capital expenditures depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to undertake these activities may also be restricted by the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. In addition, our ability to refinance our indebtedness or. 27. issue additional equity capital will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. Any such default on our debt obligations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Senior Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiary guarantors.. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain of our material domestic subsidiaries and are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets and those of the guarantor subsidiaries, other than real property and certain other types of excluded assets. If we default under our secured indebtedness, including our Senior Credit Facility, the holders of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Senior Credit Facility contains certain prepayment requirements that will limit our ability to use our cash flow from operations and the proceeds of certain assets sales or other monies for other corporate purposes.. Subject to certain limitations, we are required to prepay loans outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility out of excess cash flow and out of the net cash proceeds of property dispositions and certain other amounts received not in the ordinary course of business, such as certain insurance proceeds and condemnation awards. For example, we were required to use a substantial portion of the proceeds of the Summers Ridge Sale Leaseback to repay amounts under the Senior Credit Facility. These requirements to prepay the Senior Credit Facility with excess monies will limit our flexibility to utilize those monies for other purposes that may be in our best interests.. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility will be accelerated if certain conditions are not met prior to the maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes.. Although the regular maturity date for the Senior Credit Facility is October 6, 2022, the maturity will be accelerated and all borrowings under the Senior Credit Facility will become due and payable on the date that is 91 days prior to the maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes, if any of the Convertible Senior Notes remain outstanding on that date and certain liquidity and refinancing conditions are not satisfied. If the Senior Credit Facility is accelerated under this provision, we may not be able to refinance the facility on acceptable terms, and could be forced to sell assets or issue stock in order to obtain capital to repay the Senior Credit Facility. Any failure to repay the Senior Credit Facility when due could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position.. The agreements relating to our indebtedness contain terms that restrict our ability to operate our business, and as a result, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our Senior Credit Facility contains, and other of our debt agreements may include from time to time, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictive covenants significantly limit our ability to:. • incur additional debt, including guarantees;. • allow other liens on our property;. • make certain investments and acquisitions;. • sell or otherwise dispose of assets;. • engage in mergers or consolidations or allow a change in control to occur;. • make distributions to our stockholders;. • engage in restructuring activities;. • enter into transaction with affiliates;. • prepay or amend other indebtedness;. • engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions; and. • issue or repurchase stock or other securities.. Such agreements also require us to satisfy other requirements, including maintaining certain financial ratios. Our ability to meet these requirements can be affected by events beyond our control and we may be unable to meet them. To the extent we fail to meet any such requirements and are in default under our debt obligations, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. These restrictions may also limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit us. To the extent that we are unable to engage in activities that support the growth, profitability and competitiveness of our business, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. 28. An event of default under any agreement relating to our outstanding indebtedness or other event that could require outstanding debt to be prepaid or purchased by us could cross default other indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If there were an event of default under any of the agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately, which default or acceleration of debt could cross default other indebtedness. Our Senior Credit Facility could also be cross defaulted as a result of other events that could require us to prepay or purchase outstanding indebtedness. Any cross default with respect to any of our indebtedness would put immediate pressure on our liquidity and financial condition and would amplify the risks described above with regards to being unable to repay our indebtedness when due and payable. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, and, as described above, any inability to repay our debt when due could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our Convertible Senior Notes, purchase the Convertible Senior Notes as required upon a fundamental change or service or repay the Convertible Notes at maturity, and potential future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or purchase of our Convertible Senior Notes.. Following a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture to our Convertible Senior Notes), the holders of our Convertible Senior Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their notes for cash. In addition, upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes, unless we settle our conversion obligation solely in shares of our common stock (other than cash in lieu of any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Convertible Senior Notes being surrendered for conversion. We may not have sufficient financial resources, or be able to arrange financing, to pay the fundamental change purchase price in cash with respect to any Convertible Senior Notes surrendered by holders for purchase upon a fundamental change or make cash payments upon conversions. Our failure to purchase the Convertible Senior Notes upon a fundamental change or make cash payments upon conversions thereof when required would result in an event of default with respect to the Convertible Senior Notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other then-existing indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and purchase the Convertible Senior Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof.. The conditional conversion feature of our Convertible Senior Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Senior Notes is triggered, holders of Convertible Senior Notes will be entitled to convert their Convertible Senior Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more Convertible Senior Note holders elects to convert their notes, unless we satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to settle all or a portion of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Furthermore, even if Convertible Senior Note holders did not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Senior Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. We will continue to have the ability to incur debt and our levels of debt may affect our operations and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future. Our indebtedness could be costly or have adverse consequences, such as:. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt;. • limiting our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt obligations and other general corporate requirements;. • making us more vulnerable to adverse conditions in the general economy or our industry and to fluctuations in our operating results, including affecting our ability to comply with and maintain any financial tests and ratios required under our indebtedness;. • limiting our flexibility to engage in certain transactions or to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the diagnostics industry;. • putting us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that have less relative and/or less restrictive debt; and. • subjecting us to additional restrictive financial and other covenants.. 29. If we incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, these higher levels of indebtedness may affect our ability to pay the principal of and interest on existing indebtedness and our creditworthiness generally. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service or repay our debt. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations under our variable rate indebtedness could increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Borrowings under certain of our facilities from time to time, including under our Senior Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest and as a result expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows will correspondingly decrease. To the extent the risk materializes and is not fully mitigated, the resulting increase in interest expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of our securities.. We may need to seek additional capital. If this additional financing is obtained through the issuance of equity securities, debt convertible into equity or options or warrants to acquire equity securities, our existing stockholders could experience significant dilution upon the issuance, conversion or exercise of such securities. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes, exercise of stock options and vesting of other equity awards.. In addition, we may issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a debt refinancing or replacement, acquisition, or other transaction. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or issuances of additional securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock or other equity linked securities, including, convertible debt, preferred stock or warrants, could dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders and could depress the market price of shares of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock.. We also have a number of institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of our common stock. If one or more of these stockholders were to sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock could be negatively affected.. The price of our stock may fluctuate unpredictably in response to factors unrelated to our operating performance.. The stock market periodically experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to drop. In particular, the market price of securities of smaller medical device companies, like ours, has been very unpredictable and may vary in response to:. • announcements by us or our competitors concerning technological innovations;. • introductions of new products;. • FDA and foreign regulatory actions;. • developments or disputes relating to patents or proprietary rights;. • failure to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors;. • changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock;. • changes in healthcare policy in the U.S. or other countries; and. • general stock market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance.. 30. Some provisions of our charter documents, Delaware law, and our Convertible Senior Notes may make takeover attempts difficult, which could depress the price of our stock and inhibit our stockholders' ability to receive a premium price for their shares.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our business, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows our board of directors to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights and preferences of such shares without stockholder approval. Any such issuance could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire our business and may adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Our amended and restated bylaws include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that require stockholders to give written notice of any proposal or director nomination to us within a specified period of time prior to any stockholder meeting and do not permit stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders, unless such stockholders hold not less than 50% of our stock entitled to vote at the meeting.. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Together these provisions may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us, adversely affecting the market price of our common stock.. In addition, the terms of our Convertible Senior Notes require us to offer to purchase the notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change. A non-stock takeover of our company may trigger the requirement that we purchase the Convertible Senior Notes. This feature may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of us that would otherwise be beneficial to investors.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the near future. Our current policy is to retain all funds and any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business."
