[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the information in this Annual Report, including the matters addressed under \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" and the following risks before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks or uncertainties or any other risks or uncertainties of which we are currently unaware actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely effected. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our business depends on domestic capital spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and reductions in capital spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is cyclical and directly affected by our customers' capital spending to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices that began in late 2014 has caused a reduction in the exploration, development and production activities of most of our customers and their spending on our services. These cuts in spending have curtailed drilling programs, which has resulted in a reduction in the demand for our services as compared to activity levels in late 2014, as well as the prices we can charge. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their vendors and service providers, including us, as a result of the decline in commodity prices. Reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our areas of operation as a result of decreased capital spending may also have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results. If the recent recovery does not continue or our customers fail to further increase their capital spending, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:. <U+0095>   expected economic returns to E&P companies of new well completions;. <U+0095>   domestic and foreign economic conditions and supply of and demand for oil and natural gas;. <U+0095>   the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas;. <U+0095>   the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. <U+0095>   the level of global oil and natural gas E&P;. <U+0095>   the level of domestic and global oil and natural gas inventories;. <U+0095>   federal, state and local regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities, as well as oil and natural gas E&P activities, including public pressure on governmental bodies and regulatory agencies to regulate our industry;. 19. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. governmental taxes and regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves;. <U+0095>   political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries;. <U+0095>   actions by the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") and certain non-OPEC producers, including Russia, with respect to oil production levels and announcements of potential changes in such levels;. <U+0095>   moratoriums on drilling activity resulting in a cessation of operation or a failure to expand operations;. <U+0095>   global weather conditions and natural disasters;. <U+0095>   worldwide political, military and economic conditions;. <U+0095>   lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of qualified personnel;. <U+0095>   the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;. <U+0095>   stockholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of funding for the energy sector or restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas;. <U+0095>   the availability of water resources, suitable proppant and chemical additives in sufficient quantities for use in hydraulic fracturing fluids;. <U+0095>   advances in exploration, development and production technologies or in technologies affecting energy consumption;. <U+0095>   the potential acceleration of development of alternative fuels;. <U+0095>   the price and availability of alternative fuels;. <U+0095>   merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers and drilling contractors; and. <U+0095>   uncertainty in capital and commodities markets and the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise equity capital and debt financing.. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of oil and natural gas E&P activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could adversely impact us in many ways by negatively affecting:. <U+0095>   our utilization, revenues, cash flows and profitability;. <U+0095>   our ability to maintain or increase borrowing capacity;. <U+0095>   our ability to obtain additional capital to finance our business and the cost of that capital; and. <U+0095>   our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel.. The volatility of oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect the demand for our services and negatively impact our results of operations.. The demand for our services is primarily determined by current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices and the related levels of capital spending and drilling activity in the areas in which we have operations. Volatility or weakness in oil prices or natural gas prices (or the perception that oil prices or natural gas prices will decrease) affects the. 20. Table of Contents. spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells. This, in turn, could lead to lower demand for our services and may cause lower utilization of our assets. We have, and may in the future, experience significant fluctuations in operating results as a result of the reactions of our customers to changes in oil and natural gas prices. For example, prolonged low commodity prices experienced by the oil and natural gas industry beginning in late 2014 and uncertainty about future prices even when prices increased, combined with adverse changes in the capital and credit markets, caused many E&P companies to significantly reduce their capital budgets and drilling activity. This resulted in a significant decline in demand for oilfield services and adversely impacted the prices oilfield services companies could charge for their services.. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been extremely volatile and are expected to continue to be volatile. During the past four years, the posted West Texas Intermediate Spot Oil Price (\"WTI\") price for oil has ranged from a low of $26.21 per Bbl in February 2016 to a high of $107.26 per Bbl in June 2014. During 2016, WTI prices ranged from $26.21 to $54.06 per Bbl. In June 2017, WTI prices fell below $43.00 per Bbl but had risen to $60.42 per Bbl by the end of 2017. If the prices of oil and natural gas continue to be volatile, reverse their recent increases or decline, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. We have operated at a loss in the past, and there is no assurance of our profitability in the future.. Historically, we have experienced periods of low demand for our services and have incurred operating losses. For example, in 2015 we had a net loss of $59.0 million, in 2016 we had a net loss of $154.7 million and in 2017, we had a net loss of $21.2 million. In the future, we may not be able to reduce our costs, increase our revenues or reduce our debt service obligations sufficient to achieve or maintain profitability and generate positive operating income. Under such circumstances, we may incur further operating losses and experience negative operating cash flow.. Restrictions in our New Credit Facility could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. Concurrently with the closing of our IPO, we entered into a new asset-based revolving credit facility, which we refer to as our \"New Credit Facility,\" borrowing $13.0 million. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our New Credit Facility and any future financing agreements restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our New Credit Facility restricts or limits our ability to:. <U+0095>   pay dividends and move cash;. <U+0095>   incur additional liens;. <U+0095>   incur additional indebtedness;. <U+0095>   hedge interest rates;. <U+0095>   engage in a merger, consolidation or dissolution;. <U+0095>   enter into transactions with affiliates;. <U+0095>   sell or otherwise dispose of assets, businesses and operations;. <U+0095>   materially alter the character of our business as conducted at the closing of our IPO; and. <U+0095>   make acquisitions, investments and capital expenditures.. Furthermore, our New Credit Facility contains a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio financial covenant tested from time to time. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our New Credit Facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with such covenants may be impaired. Any violation of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our New Credit Facility could result in an event of default, which may cause indebtedness under our New Credit Facility to become immediately due and payable, and our lenders'. 21. Table of Contents. commitment to provide further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Any subsequent replacement of our New Credit Facility or any new indebtedness could have similar or more restrictive covenants and conditions. For more information about our New Credit Facility, please see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Our New Credit Facility.\". Our operations are subject to inherent risks, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may be self-insured, or may not be fully covered under our insurance policies.. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, craterings, fires, natural gas leaks, oil and produced water spills and releases of gases, hydraulic fracturing fluids or wastewater into the environment. These conditions can cause:. <U+0095>   disruption in operations;. <U+0095>   substantial repair or remediation costs;. <U+0095>   personal injury or loss of human life;. <U+0095>   significant damage to or destruction of property and equipment;. <U+0095>   environmental pollution, including groundwater contamination;. <U+0095>   unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures and industrial accidents;. <U+0095>   impairment or suspension of operations; and. <U+0095>   substantial revenue loss.. In addition, our operations are subject to, and exposed to, employee/employer liabilities and risks such as wrongful termination, discrimination, labor organizing, retaliation claims and general human resource related matters.. The occurrence of a significant event or adverse claim in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims.. We do not have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. The occurrence of an event not fully insured against or the failure of an insurer to meet its insurance obligations could result in substantial losses. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, it may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could rise significantly in the future so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive.. We face intense competition that may cause us to lose market share and could negatively affect our ability to market our services and expand our operations.. The oilfield services business is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have a broader geographic scope, greater financial and other resources, or other cost efficiencies. Additionally, there may be new companies that enter our business, or re-enter our business with significantly reduced indebtedness following emergence from bankruptcy, or our existing and potential customers may develop their own service businesses. Our ability to maintain current revenue and cash flows and our ability to market our services and expand our operations could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, we may be unable to effectively compete. All of these competitive pressures could have a material. 22. Table of Contents. adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our larger competitors provide a broader range of services on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may have a greater ability to continue oilfield service activities during periods of low commodity prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations.. We may be unable to implement price increases or maintain existing prices on our core services.. We generate revenue from our core service lines, the majority of which is provided on a spot market basis. Pressure on pricing for our core services, including due to competition and industry and/or economic conditions, may impact, among other things, our ability to implement price increases or maintain pricing on our core services. We operate in a very competitive industry and, as a result, we may not always be successful in raising or maintaining our existing prices. Additionally, during periods of increased market demand, a significant amount of new service capacity, including hydraulic fracturing equipment, may enter the market, which also puts pressure on the pricing of our services and limits our ability to increase or maintain prices. Furthermore, during periods of declining pricing for our services, we may not be able to reduce our costs accordingly, which could further adversely affect our profitability.. Even when we are able to increase our prices, we may not be able to do so at a rate that is sufficient to offset such rising costs. Also, we may not be able to successfully increase prices without adversely affecting our activity levels. The inability to maintain our prices or to increase our prices as costs increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on a limited number of third parties for sand, proppant and chemicals, and delays in deliveries of such materials increases in the cost of such materials or our contractual obligations to pay for materials that we ultimately do not require could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have established relationships with a limited number of suppliers of our raw materials (such as sand, proppant and chemical additives). Should any of our current suppliers be unable to provide the necessary materials or otherwise fail to deliver the materials in a timely manner and in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, increasing costs of such materials may negatively impact demand for our services or the profitability of our business operations. In the past, our industry faced sporadic proppant shortages associated with hydraulic fracturing operations requiring work stoppages, which adversely impacted the operating results of several competitors. We may not be able to mitigate any future shortages of materials, including proppant. Furthermore, to the extent our contracts require us to purchase more materials, including proppant, than we ultimately require, we may be forced to pay for the excess amount under \"take or pay\" contract provisions.. We have multi-year proppant supply contracts for approximately 167,000 average annual tons through 2020. The proppant market remains highly competitive and relatively volatile. An increase in the cost of proppant as a result of increased demand or a decrease in the number of proppant providers as a result of consolidation could increase our cost of an essential raw material in hydraulic stimulation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our assets require significant amounts of capital for maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment and may require significant capital expenditures for new equipment.. Our pressure pumping and pressure control fleets and other drilling and completion service-related equipment require significant capital investment in maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment to maintain their competitiveness. The costs of components and labor have increased in the past and may increase in the future with increases in demand, which will require us to incur additional costs to upgrade any fleets we may acquire in the future. Our fleets and other equipment typically do not generate revenue while they are undergoing maintenance, upgrades or refurbishment. Any maintenance, upgrade or refurbishment project for our assets could increase our indebtedness or reduce cash available for other opportunities. Furthermore, such projects may require proportionally greater capital investments as a percentage of total asset value, which may make such projects difficult to finance on acceptable terms. To the extent we are unable to fund such projects, we may have less equipment available for service or our equipment may not be attractive to potential or current customers. Additionally, competition or advances in technology within our industry may require us to update or replace existing fleets or build or acquire new fleets and equipment. Such demands on our capital or reductions in demand for our hydraulic fracturing fleets and the increase in cost of labor necessary for such maintenance and improvement, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may increase our costs.. 23. Table of Contents. Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits by us for our operations or by our customers for their operations could impair our business.. In most states, our operations and the operations of our oil and natural gas E&P customers require permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities, secure water rights, or other regulated activities. Such permits are typically issued by state agencies, but federal and local governmental permits may also be required. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where such regulated activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued and the conditions that may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. In addition, some of our customers' drilling and completion activities may take place on federal land or Native American lands, requiring leases and other approvals from the federal government or Native American tribes to conduct such drilling and completion activities or other regulated activities. Under certain circumstances, federal agencies may cancel proposed leases for federal lands and refuse to grant or otherwise delay required approvals. Therefore, our E&P customers' operations in certain areas of the United States may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue to us and adversely affecting our results of operations in support of those customers.. Federal or state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to induced seismicity could result in operating restrictions or delays in the drilling and completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our oil and natural gas E&P customers dispose of flowback and produced water or certain other oilfield fluids gathered from oil and natural gas E&P operations in accordance with permits issued by government authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. One such concern relates to recent seismic events near underground disposal wells that are used for the disposal by injection of flowback and produced water or certain other oilfield fluids resulting from oil and natural gas activities. When caused by human activity, such events are called induced seismicity. Developing research suggests that the link between seismic activity and wastewater disposal may vary by region, and that only a very small fraction of the tens of thousands of injection wells have been suspected to be, or may have been, the likely cause of induced seismicity. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arkansas. In response to concerns regarding induced seismicity, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the use of such wells. For example, Oklahoma issued rules for wastewater disposal wells that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, is developing and implementing plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. The Texas Railroad Commission adopted similar rules. More recently, in December 2016, the OCC's Oil and Gas Conservation Division and the Oklahoma Geological Survey released well completion seismicity guidance, which requires operators to take certain prescriptive actions, including an operator's planned mitigation practices, following certain unusual seismic activity within 1.25 miles of hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, in February 2017, the OCC's Oil and Gas Conservation Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of oil and natural gas wastewater injected belowground into the Arbuckle formation in an effort to reduce the number of earthquakes in the state and imposed further reductions in the Edmond area in August 2017. Another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by our customers to dispose of flowback and produced water and certain other oilfield fluids. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity also could lead to greater opposition to, and litigation concerning, oil and natural gas activities utilizing injection wells for waste disposal. Any one or more of these developments may result in our customers having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates or locations, or require our customers or third party disposal well operators that are used to dispose of customers' wastewater to shut down disposal wells, which developments could adversely affect our customers' business and result in a corresponding decrease in the need for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities may serve to limit future oil and natural gas E&P activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Currently, hydraulic fracturing is generally exempt from regulation under the SDWA's Underground Injection Control (\"UIC\") program and is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar agencies.. However, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA has asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA's UIC program over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities. In addition, in June 2016, the EPA published an effluent limit guideline final rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants and, in May 2014, published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Also, the BLM published a final rule in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and Native American lands. However, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this March 2015 final rule in June 2016, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulgate the rule. The BLM appealed the decision in July 2016 and the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the 2015 rule in response to the BLM's issuance of a proposed rule-making to rescind the 2015. On December 29, 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule. In January 2018, litigation challenging the BLM's rescission of the 2015 rule was brought in federal court. From time to time, legislation has been introduced, but not enacted, in Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In the event that new federal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we or our E&P customers conduct business, we or our customers may incur additional costs or permitting requirements to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant and, in the case of our customers, also could result in added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, which would in turn reduce the demand for our services.. Moreover, some states and local governments have adopted, and other governmental entities are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations, including states where we or our customers operate. For example, Texas, Colorado and North Dakota, among others, have adopted regulations that impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. States could also elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular.. In December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local- or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas of low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water; injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits.. Furthermore, certain interest groups in Colorado opposed to oil and natural gas development generally, and hydraulic fracturing in particular, have from time to time advanced various options for ballot initiatives that, if approved, would allow revisions to the state constitution in a manner that would make such E&P activities in the state more difficult in the future. However, during the November 2016 voting process, voters passed an amendment to the state constitution making it relatively more difficult to place an initiative on the state ballot. As a result, there are more stringent procedures in place for placing an initiative on a state ballot.. 25. Table of Contents. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to, and litigation concerning, oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays for our customers or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult for us and our customers to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our services and increased compliance costs and time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in transportation regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to various transportation regulations including as a motor carrier by the DOT and by various federal, state and tribal agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over our trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing, driver requirements and specifications and insurance requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact our operations, such as changes in fuel emissions limits, hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, onboard ELD requirements and limits on vehicle weight and size. As the federal government continues to develop and propose regulations relating to fuel quality, engine efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions, we may experience an increase in costs related to truck purchases and maintenance, impairment of equipment productivity, a decrease in the residual value of vehicles, unpredictable fluctuations in fuel prices and an increase in operating expenses. Increased truck traffic may contribute to deteriorating road conditions in some areas where our operations are performed. Our operations, including routing and weight restrictions, could be affected by road construction, road repairs, detours and state and local regulations and ordinances restricting access to certain roads. Proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, are also made from time to time, and any such increase would increase our operating costs. Also, state and local regulation of permitted routes and times on specific roadways could adversely affect our operations. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislative or regulatory changes or municipal ordinances applicable to our logistics operations will be enacted and to what extent any such legislation or regulations could increase our costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations and the operations of our oil and natural gas E&P customers are subject to numerous federal, tribal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, including natural resources, health and safety aspects of our operations and waste management, including the transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations and the operations of our E&P customers, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the imposition of restrictions on the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that can be released into the environment or injected in non-producing formations in connection with E&P activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to mitigate or prevent releases of materials from our equipment, facilities or from customer locations where we are providing services, the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations, and the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Any failure on our part or the part of our E&P customers to comply with these laws and regulations could result in prohibitions or restrictions on operations, assessment of sanctions including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, issuance of corrective action orders requiring the performance of investigatory, remedial or curative activities or enjoining performance of some or all of our operations in a particular area and the occurrence of delays in the permitting or performance of projects.. Our business activities present risks of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities, including costs and liabilities resulting from our handling of oilfield and other wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and due to historical oilfield industry operations and waste disposal practices. In addition, private parties, including the owners of properties upon which we perform services and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or environmental natural resource damages. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability,. 26. Table of Contents. which means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Remedial costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and costs associated with changes in environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Laws and regulations protecting the environment generally have become more stringent in recent years and are expected to continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could delay or curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas and could limit well servicing opportunities. We may not be able to recover some or any of our costs of compliance with these laws and regulations from insurance.. The occurrence of explosive incidents could disrupt our operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations involve the storage and handling of explosive materials for our wireline services provided to our oil and natural gas E&P customers. Despite our use of specialized facilities to store explosive materials and intensive employee training programs, the handling of explosive materials could result in incidents that temporarily shut down or otherwise disrupt our or our E&P customers' operations or could cause delays in the delivery of our services. It is possible that an explosion could result in death or significant injuries to employees and other persons. Material property damage to us, our E&P customers and other third parties could also occur. Any explosive incident could expose us to adverse publicity or liability for damages or cause production delays, any of which developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Silica-related legislation, health issues and litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and reputation.. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to human exposure to crystalline silica. In March 2016, the OSHA amended its legal requirements, publishing a final rule that established a more stringent permissible exposure to respirable crystalline silica and provided other provisions to protect employees. This final rule became effective in June 2016 and will require compliance with the most applicable requirements in June 2018. Several industry groups had filed suit in the federal Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit to halt implementation of the rule, but on December 22, 2017, the court dismissed the challenges to the rule. Historically, our environmental employee costs with respect to existing crystalline silica requirements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations; however, federal and state regulatory authorities, including OSHA, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica. We may not be able to comply with any new laws and regulations that are adopted, and any new laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by requiring us to modify or cease our operations. In addition, the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica is associated with the lung disease silicosis. There is recent evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders such as scleroderma. These health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the hydraulic fracturing industry. Concerns over silicosis and other potential adverse health effects, as well as concerns regarding potential liability from the use of hydraulic fracture sand, may have the effect of discouraging our oil and natural gas E&P customers' use of hydraulic fracture sand. The actual or perceived health risks of handling hydraulic fracture sand could materially and adversely affect hydraulic fracturing service providers, including us, through reduced use of hydraulic fracture sand, the threat of product liability or employee or third party lawsuits, increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities of us and our E&P customers or reduced financing sources available to the hydraulic fracturing industry.. We are exposed to potential liabilities arising from our business operations and, if realized, such liabilities will affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Our operations are subject to equipment malfunctions and failures, equipment misuse and defects, explosions and uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids and natural disasters that can cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment, the environment or facilities and the suspension of operations. Any fluctuations in operating efficiencies affect our ability to deliver services to our customers on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Despite our quality assurance measures,. 27. Table of Contents. errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial, reputational or other losses, including personal injury liability, costs of repair and clean-up and potential criminal and civil penalties and damages. The frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. Any errors, defects or other performance problems could adversely affect our reputation.. Generally, our oil and natural gas E&P customers agree to indemnify us against claims arising from their employees' personal injury or death to the extent that, in the case of our well site services, their employees are injured or their properties are damaged by such operations, unless, in most instances, resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. Similarly, we generally agree to indemnify our E&P customers for liabilities arising from personal injury to or death of any of our employees, unless, in most instances, resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct of the E&P customer. In addition, our E&P customers generally agree to indemnify us for loss or destruction of customer-owned property or equipment and in turn, we agree to indemnify our customers for loss or destruction of property or equipment we own. Losses due to catastrophic events, such as blowouts, are generally the responsibility of the E&P customer. However, despite this general allocation of risk, we might not succeed in enforcing such contractual allocation, might incur an unforeseen liability falling outside the scope of such allocation or may be required to enter into a service agreement with terms that vary from the above allocations of risk. As a result, we may incur substantial losses which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although either we or our affiliates expect to maintain insurance at a level that we believe is consistent with that of similarly situated companies in our industry, we cannot guarantee that this insurance will be adequate to cover all liabilities. Further, insurance may not be generally available in the future or, if available, insurance premiums may make such insurance commercially unjustifiable.. Anti-indemnity provisions enacted by many states may restrict or prohibit a party's indemnification of us.. We typically enter into agreements with our customers governing the provision of our services, which agreements usually include certain indemnification provisions for losses resulting from operations (see the preceding risk factor). Such agreements may require each party to indemnify the other against certain claims regardless of the negligence or other fault of the indemnified party; however, many states place limitations on contractual indemnity agreements, particularly agreements that indemnify a party against the consequences of its own negligence. Furthermore, certain states, including Texas, Louisiana, New Mexico and Wyoming, have enacted statutes generally referred to as \"oilfield anti-indemnity acts\" expressly prohibiting certain indemnity agreements contained in or related to oilfield services agreements. Such anti-indemnity acts may restrict or void a party's indemnification of us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Oil and natural gas companies' operations using hydraulic fracturing are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on the ability to obtain water for E&P activities and the disposal of flowback and produced water may impact their operations and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Water is an essential component of shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Our oil and natural gas E&P customers' access to water to be used in these processes may be adversely affected due to reasons such as periods of extended drought, private, third party competition for water in localized areas or the implementation of local or state governmental programs to monitor or restrict the beneficial use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to assure adequate local water supplies. The occurrence of these or similar developments may result in limitations being placed on allocations of water due to needs by third party businesses with more senior contractual or permitting rights to the water. Our customers' inability to locate or contractually acquire and sustain the receipt of sufficient amounts of water could adversely impact their E&P operations and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental regulations and other regulatory initiatives could include increased restrictions on our E&P customers' ability to dispose of flowback and produced water generated in hydraulic fracturing or other fluids resulting from E&P activities. Applicable laws, including the Clean Water Act, impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States and require that permits or other approvals be obtained to discharge pollutants to such waters. In June 2015, the EPA and the Corps. 28. Table of Contents. published a final rule outlining their position on the federal jurisdictional reach over waters of the United States, including wetlands, but legal challenges to this rule followed, and the rule was stayed nationwide by the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in October 2015, pending resolution of the court challenges. In January 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court accepted review of the rule to determine whether jurisdiction rested with the federal district or appellate courts and, in a decision issued on January 22, 2018, held that legal challenges of the rule must be heard at the district rather than appellate court level, Additionally, following the issuance of a presidential executive order to review the rule, the EPA and Corps proposed a rule in June 2017 to repeal the 2015 rule. The EPA and Corps also announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the Clean Water Act's jurisdiction. On February 6, 2018, the EPA and Corps published a final rule specifying that the contested June 2015 rule would not take effect until February 6, 2020. As a result, future implementation of the June 2015 rule is uncertain at this time. Also, in June 2016, the EPA published final regulations prohibiting wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants. The Clean Water Act and analogous state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and hazardous substances. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells and any inability to secure transportation and access to disposal wells with sufficient capacity to accept all of the flowback and produced water on economic terms may increase our customers' operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our E&P customers' operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted.. Any future indebtedness could restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition.. We may incur indebtedness to fund capital expenditures and for working capital needs. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our operations and limit our growth, and we may have difficulty making debt service payments on our indebtedness as such payments become due. Our indebtedness may affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. <U+0095>   our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+0095>   the covenants contained in the agreements that will govern our indebtedness limit our ability to borrow funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments;. <U+0095>   our debt covenants will also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industry;. <U+0095>   any failure to comply with the financial or other covenants of our indebtedness could result in an event of default, which could result in some or all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable;. <U+0095>   our indebtedness could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and. <U+0095>   our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations to enable us to meet our obligations under our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund any debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our shares, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes.. Interest rates on future borrowings, credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. A rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes.. 29. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the global financial markets and the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers.. Our future results may be impacted by the uncertainty caused by an economic downturn, volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions that may negatively affect us or parties with whom we do business resulting in a reduction in our customers' spending and their non-payment or inability to perform obligations owed to us, such as the failure of customers to honor their commitments or the failure of major suppliers to complete orders. Additionally, during times when the natural gas or crude oil markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience financial difficulties, including being unable to access debt or equity financing, which could result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our services. In addition, in the course of our business we hold accounts receivable from our customers. In the event of the financial distress or bankruptcy of a customer, we could lose all or a portion of such outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. Further, if a customer was to enter into bankruptcy, it could also result in the cancellation of all or a portion of our service contracts with such customer at significant expense or loss of expected revenues to us.. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could adversely affect our business.. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The loss of their services could adversely affect our business. In particular, the loss of the services of one or more members of our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Compliance Officer, Divisional Presidents, and certain of our Vice Presidents, could disrupt our operations. We do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees.. Our industry overall has experienced a high rate of employee turnover. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent upon the available labor pool of skilled employees and may not be able to find enough skilled labor to meet our needs, which could have a negative effect on our growth. We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. Our services require skilled workers who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of our industry volatility, including the recent and pronounced decline in drilling activity, as well as the demanding nature of the work, many workers have left the hydraulic fracturing industry to pursue employment in different fields. Though our historical turnover rates have been significantly lower than those of our competitors, if we are unable to retain or meet growing demand for skilled technical personnel, our operating results and our ability to execute our growth strategies may be adversely affected.. The growth of our business through acquisitions may expose us to various risks, including those relating to difficulties in identifying suitable, accretive acquisition opportunities, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing for targeted acquisitions and the potential for increased leverage or debt service requirements.. As a component of our business strategy, we intend to pursue selected, accretive acquisitions of complementary assets, businesses and technologies. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including:. <U+0095>   unanticipated costs and assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities;. <U+0095>   limitations on our ability to properly assess and maintain an effective internal control environment over an acquired business, in order to comply with public reporting requirements;. <U+0095>   potential losses of key employees and customers of the acquired business;. <U+0095>   inability to commercially develop acquired technologies;. <U+0095>   risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and. <U+0095>   increases in our expenses and working capital requirements.. 30. Table of Contents. In addition, we may not have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity or debt securities in connection with such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. Even if we have access to the necessary capital, we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause use to refrain from, completing acquisitions.. Our ability to grow through acquisitions and manage growth will require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, based on whether or not significant acquisitions are completed in particular quarters.. Integrating acquisitions may be time-consuming and create costs that could reduce our net income and cash flows.. Part of our strategy includes pursuing acquisitions that we believe will be accretive to our business. If we consummate an acquisition, the process of integrating the acquired business may be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to the business and may cause an interruption of, or a distraction of management's attention from, the business as a result of a number of obstacles, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095>   a failure of our due diligence process to identify significant risks or issues;. <U+0095>   the loss of customers of the acquired company or our company;. <U+0095>   negative impact on the brands or banners of the acquired company or our company;. <U+0095>   a failure to maintain or improve the quality of customer service;. <U+0095>   difficulties assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company;. <U+0095>   our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired company;. <U+0095>   the incurrence of unexpected expenses and working capital requirements;. <U+0095>   our inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals, including synergies, for the combined businesses;. <U+0095>   difficulty in maintaining internal controls, procedures and policies;. <U+0095>   mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; and. <U+0095>   unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas.. Any of the foregoing obstacles, or a combination of them, could decrease gross profit margins or increase selling, general and administrative expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales, which could in turn negatively impact our financial condition.. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions are accompanied by the risk that the obligations and liabilities of an acquired company may not be adequately reflected in the historical financial statements of that company and the risk that those historical financial statements may be based on assumptions which are incorrect or inconsistent with our assumptions or approach to accounting policies. Any of these material obligations, liabilities or incorrect or inconsistent assumptions could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 31. Table of Contents. If our intended expansion of our business is not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and we may not achieve the increases in revenue and profitability that we hope to realize.. A key element of our business strategy involves the expansion of our services, geographic presence and customer base. These aspects of our strategy are subject to numerous tasks and uncertainties, including:. <U+0095>   an inability to retain or hire experienced crews and other personnel;. <U+0095>   a lack of customer demand for the services we intend to provide;. <U+0095>   an inability to secure necessary equipment, raw materials or technology to successfully execute our expansion objective;. <U+0095>   shortages of water used in our hydraulic fracturing operations;. <U+0095>   unanticipated delays that could limit or defer the provision of services by us and jeopardize our relationships with existing customers and adversely affect our ability to obtain new customers for such services; and. <U+0095>   competition from new and existing service providers.. Encountering any of these or any unforeseen problems in implementing our planned expansion could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and could prevent us from achieving the increases in revenues and profitability that we hope to realize.. New technology may hurt our competitive position.. The oilfield services industry is subject to the introduction of new completion techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies or technologies comparable to ours in the future, we may lose market share or be placed a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do, which may allow them to gain technological advantages or implement new technologies before we can. Additionally, we may be unable to implement new technologies or products at all, on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Limits on our ability to effectively use or implement new technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fuel conservation measures could reduce demand for oil and natural gas which would in turn reduce the demand for our services.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements and increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources (such as wind, solar geothermal, tidal and biofuels) could reduce demand for hydrocarbons and therefore for our services, which would lead to a reduction in our revenues.. Unsatisfactory safety performance may negatively affect our customer relationships and, to the extent we fail to retain existing customers or attract new customers, adversely impact our revenues.. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new business is dependent on many factors, including our ability to demonstrate that we can reliably and safely operate our business in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules and permits, which legal requirements are subject to change. Existing and potential customers consider the safety record of their third-party service providers to be of high importance in their decision to engage such providers. If one or more accidents were to occur at one of our operating sites, the affected customer may seek to terminate or cancel its use of our facilities or services and may be less likely to continue to use our services, which could cause us. 32. Table of Contents. to lose substantial revenues. Furthermore, our ability to attract new customers may be impaired if they elect not to engage us because they view our safety record as unacceptable. In addition, it is possible that we will experience multiple or particularly severe accidents in the future, causing our safety record to deteriorate. This may be more likely as we continue to grow, if we experience high employee turnover or labor shortage, or hire inexperienced personnel to bolster our staffing needs.. Climate change legislation and regulations restricting or regulating emissions of GHGs could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our hydraulic fracturing services.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public, governmental and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources.. At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. The EPA has, however, adopted rules under authority of the CAA that, among other things, establish Potential for Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions, which reviews could require securing PSD permits at covered facilities emitting GHGs and meeting \"best available control technology\" standards for those GHG emissions. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the United States, including, among others, onshore and offshore production facilities, which include certain of our E&P customers' operations. The EPA has expanded the GHG reporting requirements to all segments of the oil and natural gas industry, including gathering and boosting facilities as well as completions and workovers from hydraulically fractured oil wells.. Federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a GHG, from oil and natural gas operations. In June 2016, the EPA published NSPS, known as Subpart OOOOa, that requires certain new, modified or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas and VOC emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards expand previously issued NSPS published by the EPA in 2012 and known as Subpart OOOO, by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of these Subpart OOOOa standards for two years and reconsider the entirety of the 2016 standards but has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the 2016 standards are currently in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. Furthermore, in November 2016, the BLM published a final rule that established, among other things, requirements to reduce methane emissions arising from venting, flaring and leaks from oil and natural gas production activities on onshore federal and Native American lands. However, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule to temporarily suspend or delay certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019, including those requirements relating to the venting, flaring and leakage from oil and natural gas production activities. The suspension of the November 2016 final rule is being challenged in court. Additionally, in December 2015, the United States joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that prepared an agreement requiring member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. This \"Paris Agreement\" was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered in force in November 2016; however, this agreement does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their GHG emissions, but rather includes pledges to voluntarily limit or reduce future emissions. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, demand for our services and results of operations. Moreover, recent activism directed at shifting funds away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector.. 33. Table of Contents. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climate events that could have an adverse effect on our operations and the operations of our customers.. The ESA and MBTA laws and other restrictions intended to protect certain species of wildlife govern our and our customers' operations and additional restrictions may be imposed in the future, which constraints could have an adverse impact on our ability to expand some of our existing operations or limit our customers' ability to develop new oil and natural gas wells.. Oil and natural gas E&P operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife, which may limit our ability to operate in protected areas. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures.. For example, the ESA restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the MBTA. To the extent species that are listed under the ESA or similar state laws, or are protected under the MBTA, live in the areas where we or our oil and natural gas E&P customers operate, our and our customers' abilities to conduct or expand operations and construct facilities could be limited or be forced to incur material additional costs. Moreover, our customer's drilling activities may be delayed, restricted or precluded in protected habitat areas or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons. Some of our operations and the operations of our customers are located in areas that are designated as habitats for protected species.. Moreover, as a result of one or more settlements approved by the federal government, FWS must make determinations on the listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA pursuant to specific timelines. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could indirectly cause us to incur additional costs, cause our or our customers' operations to become subject to operating restrictions or bans, and limit future development activity in affected areas. The FWS and similar state agencies may designate critical or suitable habitat areas that they believe are necessary for the survival of threatened or endangered species. Such a designation could materially restrict use of or access to federal, state and private lands.. Technology advancements in well service technologies, including those involving hydraulic fracturing, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The hydraulic fracturing industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies or technologies comparable to ours in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do, which may allow them to gain technological advantages or implement new technologies before we can. Additionally, we may be unable to implement new technologies or services at all, on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. New technology could also make it easier for our oil and natural gas E&P customers to vertically integrate their operations, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for our services. Limits on our ability to effectively use or implement new technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Seasonal weather conditions and natural disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business.. Our operations are located in different regions of the United States. Some of these areas are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, we may be unable to move our equipment between locations, thereby reducing our ability to provide services and generate revenues. The exploration activities of our customers may also be affected during such periods of adverse weather conditions. Additionally, extended drought conditions in our operating regions could impact our ability or our customers' ability to source sufficient water or increase the cost for such water. As a result, a natural disaster or inclement weather conditions could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. Certain of our business segments may be concentrated in particular geographic regions, which could exacerbate any negative performance of those companies to the extent those companies perform poorly.. We have historically focused our pressure pumping services in the Mid-Continent and Rocky Mountain regions. During periods of adverse weather, difficult market conditions or slowdowns in oil and natural gas exploration in these geographic regions, the decreased revenues, difficulty in obtaining access to financing and increased funding costs we experience may be exacerbated by the geographic concentration of our completion and production operations. We could experience any of these conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have more geographically diversified operations. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to interruptions or failures in our information technology systems.. We rely on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to support our business, including process control technology. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunication failures, usage errors by employees, computer viruses, cyber-attacks or other security breaches or similar events. The failure of any of our information technology systems may cause disruptions in our operations, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain processing activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to perform many of our services and to process and record financial and operating data. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks, have increased. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Our technologies, systems and networks, and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we will likely be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Our insurance coverage for cyberattacks may not be sufficient to cover all the losses we may experience as a result of such cyberattacks.. If we are unable to fully protect our intellectual property rights, we may suffer a loss in our competitive advantage or market share.. We do not have patents or patent applications relating to any of our key processes and technology. If we are not able to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets, or if our competitors are able to replicate our technology or services, our competitive advantage would be diminished. We also cannot assure you that any patents we may obtain in the future would provide us with any significant commercial benefit or would allow us to prevent our competitors from employing comparable technologies or processes.. We may be adversely affected by disputes regarding intellectual property rights of third parties.. Third parties from time to time may initiate litigation against us by asserting that the conduct of our business infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates intellectual property rights. We may not prevail in any such legal proceedings related to such claims, and our products and services may be found to infringe, impair, misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. If we are sued for infringement and lose, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Any legal proceeding concerning intellectual property could be protracted and costly regardless of the merits of any claim and is inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, regardless of its outcome.. 35. Table of Contents. If we were to discover that our technologies or products infringe valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially re-engineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. If our inability to obtain required licenses for our technologies or products prevents us from selling our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.. The occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries, including continued hostilities in the Middle East, may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers' operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all.. We engage in transactions with related parties and such transactions present possible conflicts of interest that could have an adverse effect on us.. We have entered into a significant number of transactions with related parties. The details of certain of these transactions are set forth in the section \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.\" Related party transactions create the possibility of conflicts of interest with regard to our management, including that:. <U+0095>   we may enter into contracts between us, on the one hand, and related parties, on the other, that are not as a result of arm's-length transactions;. <U+0095>   our executive officers and directors that hold positions of responsibility with related parties may be aware of certain business opportunities that are appropriate for presentation to us as well as to such other related parties and may present such business opportunities to such other parties; and. <U+0095>   our executive officers and directors that hold positions of responsibility with related parties may have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, other entities and may have conflicts of interest in allocating time.. Such conflicts could cause an individual in our management to seek to advance his or her economic interests or the economic interests of certain related parties above ours. Further, the appearance of conflicts of interest created by related party transactions could impair the confidence of our investors. Our board of directors regularly reviews these transactions. Notwithstanding this, it is possible that a conflict of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may record losses or impairment charges related to idle assets or assets that we sell.. Prolonged periods of low utilization, changes in technology or the sale of assets below their carrying value may cause us to experience losses. These events could result in the recognition of impairment charges that negatively impact our financial results. Significant impairment charges as a result of a decline in market conditions or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.. 36. Table of Contents. We may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our long-lived assets.. We evaluate our long-lived assets, such as property and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by a comparison of their carrying amount to the estimated undiscounted cash flows to be generated by those assets. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews and the continuing evaluation of development plans, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our long-lived and other intangible assets. There was no impairment on our long-lived assets for the year ended December 31, 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2016 the Company recognized $1.4 million in impairment expenses related to write-downs of assets held for sale.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), and the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. As a public company, we are required to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE\"), with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and significantly increases our costs and expenses. We are required to:. <U+0095>   institute a more comprehensive compliance function;. <U+0095>   comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE;. <U+0095>   continue to prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws;. <U+0095>   establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading; and. <U+0095>   involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities.. Furthermore, while we generally must comply with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2018, we are not required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until our first annual report subsequent to our ceasing to be an \"emerging growth company\" within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act. Accordingly, we may not be required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls until as late as our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2023. Once it is required to do so, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. In addition, we expect that being a public company subject to these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.. If we fail to remediate material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or experience any additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. 37. Table of Contents. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. As a result of being a public company, we will be required, under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual and interim financial statements will not be detected or prevented on a timely basis.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, which may result in material misstatements of our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations.. As a public company, we will be required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in those internal controls, subject to any exemptions that we avail ourselves to under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the \"JOBS Act\"). For example, we will be required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. We are in the process of designing, implementing, and testing internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation. We and our independent registered public accounting firm have identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. To facilitate the ongoing maintenance and period end closing of the Company books, at certain QES entities, certain individuals are not prevented from both initiating and recording (\"creating and posting\") journal entries into the general ledger without proper monitoring or manual approval of the journal entries. Additionally, within two of the QES entities' accounting systems, members of management have access to and use a 'super user' account without monitoring, which grants users significant conflicting capabilities and does not allow for tracking of the user's activities. Therefore, individuals have the ability to record and/or alter entries within the Company's general ledger without appropriate review, leading to a reasonable possibility of a material misstatement of the financial statements. Additionally, these material weaknesses could result in misstatements to our financial statements or disclosures that would result in material misstatements to our annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We are enhancing our internal controls, processes and related documentation necessary to remediate our material weakness and to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our remediation, evaluation and testing in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, such as the one we identified as described above, we will be unable to conclude that our internal controls are effective. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of factors, including:. <U+0095>   faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes;. <U+0095>   fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people;. <U+0095>   inappropriate management override of procedures; and. <U+0095>   the possibility that any enhancements to controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial control.. When we cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" under the federal securities laws, our registered public accounting firm will be required to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we are unable to confirm that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our registered public accounting firm are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. 38. Table of Contents. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the event of a drop in the market price of our common stock, you could lose a substantial part or all of your investment in our common stock. The following factors could affect our stock price:. <U+0095>   quarterly variations in our financial and operating results;. <U+0095>   the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. <U+0095>   strategic actions by our competitors;. <U+0095>   changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts;. <U+0095>   speculation in the press or investment community;. <U+0095>   the failure of research analysts to cover our common stock;. <U+0095>   sales of our common stock by us, our Principal Stockholders (as defined below) or other stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur;. <U+0095>   changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations or standards;. <U+0095>   additions or departures of key management personnel;. <U+0095>   actions by our stockholders;. <U+0095>   general market conditions, including fluctuations in commodity prices;. <U+0095>   domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; and. <U+0095>   the realization of any risks described under this \"Risk Factors\" section.. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Principal Stockholders have the ability to direct the voting of a majority of our voting stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.. Upon completion of our IPO, investment funds managed by Quintana Capital Group (\"Quintana\"), Archer, Geveran Investments Limited and its affiliates (\"Geveran\"), Robertson QES Investment LLC (\"Robertson QES\") and Corbin J. Robertson, Jr. (\"Mr Robertson\" and, together with Quintana, Archer, Geveran, and Robertson QES, the \"Principal Stockholders\"), own, on a combined basis, approximately 76.3% of our voting stock as of March 27, 2018. As a result, on a combined basis, the Principal Stockholders are able to control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our organizational documents and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our common stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. The interests of the Principal Stockholders with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.. 39. Table of Contents. Given this concentrated ownership, the Principal Stockholders would have to approve any potential acquisition of us. The existence of significant stockholders may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. Moreover, the Principal Stockholders' concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with significant stockholders.. In addition, our second amended and restated equity rights agreement (the \"Equity Rights Agreement\"), provides Quintana with the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors, provides Archer with the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors and provides Geveran with the right to appoint one director to our board of directors. Due to the Equity Rights Agreement, the Principal Stockholders are also be deemed a \"group\" for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the SEC. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. See \"Management - Status as a Controlled Company.\". Certain of our directors have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that may compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities. Certain of our directors, who are responsible for managing the direction of our operations, hold positions of responsibility with other entities (including affiliated entities) that are in the oil and natural gas industry. These directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to other entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated, and as a result, they may elect not to present those opportunities to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. For additional discussion of our directors' business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest of which our stockholders should be aware, see \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.\". Quintana and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, Archer and its affiliates will not be limited in their ability to compete with us in the future, and the corporate opportunity provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could enable Quintana or Archer to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us.. Although pursuant to the Archer Acquisition, Archer agreed to certain limited noncompetition provisions relating to the businesses we acquired for a period of up to three years (depending on the type of competitive activity), our governing documents provide (a) that we renounce any interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to Quintana or Archer or their respective affiliates, and (b) that Quintana and Archer and their respective affiliates (including their portfolio investments) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation does, among other things:. <U+0095>   permit Quintana and Archer, after the expiration of Archer's contractual noncompetition agreements, and their respective affiliates to conduct business that competes with us and to make investments in any kind of property in which we may make investments; and. <U+0095>   provide that if Quintana or Archer or their respective affiliates, or any employee, partner, member, manager, officer or director of Quintana or Archer or their respective affiliates who is also one of our directors or officers, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us.. Quintana or Archer or their respective affiliates may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Furthermore, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities, possibly causing these opportunities to not be available to us or causing them to be more expensive for us to pursue. In addition, Quintana and Archer and their respective affiliates may dispose of oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to Quintana and Archer and their respective affiliates could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.. 40. Table of Contents. A significant reduction by Quintana or Archer of their ownership interests in us could adversely affect us.. We believe that Quintana's and Archer's ownership interests in us provide them with an economic incentive to assist us to be successful. Upon the expiration of the lock-up restrictions on transfers or sales of our securities signed in connection with our IPO, Quintana and Archer will no longer be subject to any obligation to maintain their ownership interest in us and may elect at any time thereafter to sell all or a substantial portion of or otherwise reduce their ownership interest in us. If Quintana or Archer sells all or a substantial portion of its ownership interest in us, it may have less incentive to assist in our success and its affiliate(s) that are expected to serve as members of our board of directors may resign. Such actions could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval in one or more series, designate the number of shares constituting any series, and fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include:. <U+0095>   after we cease to be a controlled company, dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving staggered three-year terms, other than directors which may be elected by holders of our preferred stock, if any;. <U+0095>   after we cease to be a controlled company, providing that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law or, if applicable, the rights of holders of one or more series of our preferred stock, be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum (prior to such time, vacancies may also be filled by stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares);. <U+0095>   providing that, after we cease to be a controlled company, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing in lieu of a meeting of such stockholders, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of our preferred stock with respect to such series;. <U+0095>   providing that, after we cease to be a controlled company, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 66% of our then outstanding common stock;. <U+0095>   providing that, after we cease to be a controlled company, permitting any action by stockholders to be taken only at an annual meeting or special meeting rather than by a written consent of the stockholders, subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock with respect to such rights;. <U+0095>   providing that, after we cease to be a controlled company, permitting special meetings of our stockholders to be called only by our board of directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the board of directors serving at the time of such vote (prior to such time, a special meeting may also be called at the request of stockholders holding a majority of the then outstanding shares entitled to vote);. 41. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   providing that, after we cease to be a controlled company, the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 66% in voting power of all then outstanding common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, is required to remove any or all of the directors from office at any time, and directors will be removable only for \"cause\";. <U+0095>   prohibiting cumulative voting by our stockholders on all matters;. <U+0095>   establishing advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders;. <U+0095>   providing that our board of directors has the ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock;. <U+0095>   providing that the authorized number of directors constituting our board of directors may be changed only by a resolution of the board of directors; and. <U+0095>   providing that our board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, alter or repeal our bylaws.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also contains a provision that provides us with protections similar to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), and prevents us from engaging in a business combination, such as a merger, with a person or group who acquires at least 15% of our voting stock for a period of three years from the date such person became an interested stockholder, unless (with certain exceptions) the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved as prescribed in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation also provides that our Principal Stockholders and any persons to whom our Principal Stockholders sell their common stock will be excluded from the definition of \"interested stockholder\".. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates.. We do not plan to declare cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, our New Credit Facility places certain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if you sell your common stock at a price greater than you paid for it. There is no guarantee that the price of our common stock that will prevail in the market will ever exceed the price at which you purchased your shares of common stock.. 42. Table of Contents. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.. After the expiration or waiver of the lock-up provision contained in the underwriting agreement entered into in connection with our IPO, we may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings or may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities. We have 33,630,934 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 27, 2018.. In connection with our IPO, on February 14, 2018, we filed a registration statement with the SEC on Form S-8 providing for the registration of 5,257,215 shares of our common stock issued or reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plan. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions, the expiration of lock-up agreements and the requirements of Rule 144, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 may be made available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and/or sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. The underwriters of our IPO may release parties to the lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our IPO, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. In connection with our IPO, we, all of our directors and executive officers, and certain of our Principal Stockholders entered into lock-up agreements pursuant to which we and they are subject to certain restrictions with respect to the sale or other disposition of our common stock for a period of 180 days following the date of our Registration Statement (as defined below). The underwriters, at any time and without notice, may release all or any portion of the common stock subject to the foregoing lock-up agreements. If shares subject to the lock-up agreements are released, then the common stock, subject to compliance with the Securities Act or exceptions therefrom, will be available for sale into the public markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and impair our ability to raise capital.. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of our preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of a class or series of our preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and intend to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. The Principal Stockholders own, on a combined basis, a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our outstanding voting stock. Additionally, the Principal Stockholders are deemed a group for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the SEC as a result of the Equity Rights Agreement. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or. 43. Table of Contents. group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. <U+0095>   a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors as defined under the rules of the NYSE;. <U+0095>   the nominating and governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. <U+0095>   the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. These requirements will not apply to us as long as we remain a controlled company. We intend to utilize some or all of these exemptions. For example, while not currently mandatory given our controlled company status, we have voluntarily established a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors as of the closing of our IPO. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. See \"Management - Status as a Controlled Company.\". For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. We are classified as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things: (i) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley; (ii) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (\"PCAOB\") requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; (iii) provide certain disclosures regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or (iv) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.07 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700.0 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.07 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common stock to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline."
