[1] "Item 1A.Risk Factors. Our company faces a variety of risks. Many of these risks are beyond our control and could cause our actual operating results and financial performance to be materially different from our expectations. Some of these risks are described below, including risks related to our business, the Spin-off, the U.S. healthcare industry, laws and regulations governing our industry, the securities markets and ownership of our common stock. Others risk factors, such as those related to our markets, operations, liquidity and interest rates, are described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, such as in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" If any of the events or circumstances described in any of the following risk factors or those contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our shareholders could lose all or part of their investment. Furthermore, our actual operating and financial results may differ materially from those predicted in any forward-looking statements we make in any public disclosures, including those summarized in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness, raise additional capital, finance operations and capital expenditures, pursue desirable business opportunities or successfully operate our business in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, our total debt, excluding unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts, was $1.3 billion.. Our overall leverage, terms of our financing arrangements and debt service obligations could have important consequences to us, including the following:. •  limits our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital and capital expenditures, to fund growth or to fund general corporate purposes, even when necessary for us to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies were revised downward;. •  subjects us to higher levels of indebtedness than our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce our flexibility in responding to increased competition;. •  requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our operating cash flow to make interest payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our operating cash flow to fund future investments, capital expenditures, working capital, business activities, financial obligations and other general corporate expenditures;. •  limits our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;. •  limits our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions in the industry in which we operate, and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions and governmental regulations; and. •  result in the market value of our stock being more volatile, potentially resulting in larger investment gains or losses for our shareholders, than the market value of the common stock of other companies that have a relatively smaller amount of indebtedness.. Our ability to meet expenses and debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in patient preferences, the success of responding to changing payment models, the success in negotiating the termination of certain agreements with CHS and regulatory issues and pressure from competitors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell our assets, borrow more money or raise equity. We may be limited in our ability to pursue any of these options, if at all, in an instance of need, and any proceeds we receive may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations as due.. Our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, this variable rate debt will create higher debt service requirements from us, which could adversely affect our available cash flow.. The agreements governing our debt, including our credit facilities and the indenture governing our Senior Notes, contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business.. The agreements and indenture governing our credit facilities and Senior Notes contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to:. •  borrow money or guarantee debt;. •  create liens on our assets;. •  pay dividends or make distributions on, or redeem or repurchase our common stock;. •  make specified types of investments and acquisitions;. •  enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends;. 28. •  enter into new lines of business;. •  engage in transactions with affiliates; and. •  sell assets or merge with other companies.. In addition, our credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these restrictive covenants and financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests.. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities.. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions.. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our obligations under the Senior Notes. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.. Our financial statements have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern.. On December 31, 2016, the Company adopted FASB's ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements  -  Going Concern, which requires management to evaluate if there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern. On April 11, 2017, we amended our Senior Credit Facility (the \"CS Amendment\") to, among other things, raise the maximum Secured Net Leverage Ratio (as defined in our credit agreement (\"CS Agreement\"), among us, the lenders party thereto and Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch (\"Credit Suisse\"), as administrative agent and collateral agent) to 4.75x from 4.25x for the period July 1, 2017 to December 31, 2018 (which was previously 4.25x for the period July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018), at which point it was to drop to 4.00x for the remainder of the agreement. On March 14, 2018, we amended our Senior Credit Facility (the \"CS Second Amendment\") to, among other things, raise the maximum Secured Net Leverage Ratio to 4.75x for the period July 1, 2017 to July 30, 2018 and 5.00x for the period July 1, 2018 through December 31, 2019, at which point it will drop to 4.50x for the remainder of the agreement. Management has concluded that the CS Amendment and the CS Second Amendment alleviate any substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern for the one year period following the issuance of the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. However, we cannot predict, with certainty, the outcome of our actions. Our ability to fund capital requirements, service our existing debt and comply with our debt covenants will depend on our future operating performance and will be impacted by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. If we do not generate enough cash to pay our debt service obligations or our operating performance does not comply with our amended debt covenants, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing indebtedness, sell assets, borrow additional money or raise equity. Breach of covenants included in our debt agreements, which could result in the lenders demanding payment of the unpaid principal and interest balances, would have an adverse effect upon our business and would likely require us to do any or all of the following: seek to renegotiate these debt arrangements with the lenders, seek waivers from the lenders, or seek to raise additional capital and increase revenues. If such negotiations and capital raising attempts proved unsuccessful, we may be required to seek protection from creditors through bankruptcy proceedings.. If we are unable to complete divestitures or closures that are currently contemplated, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. As noted above, we have been implementing a portfolio refinement strategy by divesting underperforming hospitals and outpatient service facilities. In addition, on January 5, 2018 the Company announced the planned closure of Affinity Medical Center in Massillon, Ohio. Generally, we believe these divestitures and closures will allow us to reduce our corporate indebtedness and refine our hospital portfolio to a sustainable group of hospitals and outpatient service facilities with higher operating margins. However, there is no assurance that these contemplated divestitures or closures will be completed, will be completed within our contemplated timeframe, or will be completed on terms favorable to us or on terms sufficient to allow us to achieve our strategy. Additionally, the results of operations for these hospitals we plan to divest and the potential gains or losses on the sales of these businesses may adversely affect our profitability. Moreover, we may incur asset impairment charges related to divestitures or closures that reduce our profitability.. In addition, after entering into a definitive agreement, we may be subject to the satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the sale. Divestitures or closures may also involve continued financial exposure related to the divested business, such as through indemnities or retained obligations, that present risk to us.. 29. Our planned divestiture and closure activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks. Those risks include diversion of management attention from improving existing operations; additional restructuring charges and the related impact from separating personnel, renegotiating contracts, and restructuring financial and other systems; adverse effects on existing business relationships with patients and third-party payors; and the potential that the collectability of any patient accounts receivable retained from any divested hospital may be adversely impacted. Any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If reimbursement rates paid by federal or state healthcare programs or commercial insurance and other managed care payors are reduced, if we are unable to maintain favorable contract terms with payors or comply with our payor contract obligations, if insured individuals move to insurance programs or plans with greater coverage exclusions or narrower networks, or if insurance coverage is otherwise restricted, our net operating revenues may decline.. Our net patient revenues, before the provision for bad debts, from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including Medicare and Medicaid managed care plans, were 46.5%, 46.3% and 45.0% for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and were 39.6%, 39.4% and 40.3% from managed care and commercial payors for these respective periods. Healthcare expenditures continue to increase and state governments continue to face budgetary shortfalls. Driven by these financial factors and ongoing health reform efforts, federal and state governments have made, and continue to make, significant changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including reductions in reimbursement payment levels and reductions to payments made to providers under state supplemental payment programs. Some of these changes have already decreased, and could further decrease in the future, the amount of payments we receive for our services.. In addition, governmental and commercial payors, as well as other third parties from whom we receive payment for our services, attempt to control healthcare costs by, for example, requiring hospitals to discount payments for their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plan networks, restricting coverage through utilization reviews, reducing coverage of inpatient services and shifting coverage of care to outpatient settings when possible, requiring prior authorizations for non-emergency services and implementing alternative payment models. The ability of commercial payors to control healthcare costs using these measures may be enhanced by the increasing consolidation of private health insurance companies and managed care companies and vertical integration of health insurers with healthcare providers. Cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups and their affiliates may also limit our ability to negotiate favorable terms in our contracts and otherwise intensify competitive pressure. Furthermore, our contracts with payors require us to comply with a number of terms related to the provision of services and billing for services. If we are unable to negotiate increased reimbursement rates, maintain existing reimbursement rates or other favorable contract terms, effectively respond to payor cost controls or comply with the terms of our payor contracts, the payments we receive for our services may be reduced or we may be involved in disputes with payors and experience payment denials, both prospectively and retroactively.. In recent years, the percentage of the population with health insurance has increased, driven primarily by various provisions of the Affordable Care Act, including the requirement that individuals purchase health insurance or pay a penalty. However, in 2017, Congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the individual mandate, effective January 1, 2019. This change may result in fewer individuals electing to purchase health insurance. In addition, the president signed an executive order directing agencies to relax limits on certain health plans, potentially allowing for fewer plans that adhere to specific Affordable Care Act coverage mandates. Further, individuals are increasingly enrolling in high-deductible health plans, which tend to have lower reimbursement rates for providers along with higher co-payments and deductibles due from the patient in comparison to traditional plans. These plans, sometimes referred to as consumer directed plans, may even exclude our hospitals and employed physicians from coverage.. Changes to Medicaid supplemental payment programs may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and cash flows.. Medicaid state supplemental payments to providers are separate from and in addition to those made under a state's standard Medicaid program. For example, federal law requires state Medicaid programs to make DSH payments to hospitals that serve significant numbers of Medicaid and uninsured patients. The Affordable Care Act and subsequent legislation provide for reductions in Medicaid DSH payments. Under the budget bill signed into law in February 2018, Medicaid DSH payments will be reduced by $4 billion in 2020 and by $8 billion per year from 2021 through 2025. Reductions in Medicaid DSH payments and the funding of similar programs could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. Supplemental payment programs are being reviewed by certain state agencies, and some states have made or may make waiver requests to CMS to replace existing supplemental payment programs. These reviews and waiver requests may result in restructuring of such programs and could cause reductions in or elimination of the payments. In December 2017, CMS announced that it will phase out funding for Designated State Health Programs under Medicaid waivers granted pursuant to section 1115 of the Social Security Act. The Texas Healthcare Transformation and Quality Improvement Program is an example of such a waiver. The program offsets some costs of providing uncompensated care and incentivizes delivery system reform under a waiver granted by CMS. In December 2017, CMS has approved an extension of the Texas Medicaid waiver through September 30, 2022, but indicated that it will phase out the federal funding related to delivery system reform, eliminating those federal payments beginning October 1, 2021. In addition, Texas will not receive any federal financial participation for uncompensated care pool payments until CMS approves revised uncompensated care protocol policies for the state.. 30. In December 2017, CMS approved Phase V of California's HQAF program, with a program period of January 1, 2017, through June 30, 2019. The HQAF program provides funding for supplemental payments to hospitals that serve Medi-Cal and uninsured patients. The supplemental payments are funded in part by the federal government. The CMS approval process can be lengthy and, in some cases, the state must seek approval each fiscal year. In addition, changes to the Medi-Cal program may affect the availability of funding for supplemental payments.. As a result of the increase in reviews of claims filed for Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, we may experience delayed payments or incur additional costs and may be required to repay amounts already paid to us under these programs.. We are subject to routine post-payment inquiries, investigations and audits of the claims we submit to Medicare and Medicaid for reimbursement for our healthcare services provided to covered patients. The number and parameters of claims subject to these post-payment reviews may increase as a result of federal and state governmental healthcare cost-containment initiatives, including enhanced medical necessity reviews for Medicare patients admitted as inpatients to hospitals for certain procedures. Furthermore, CMS contracts with RACs to perform post-payment targeted review process that employs data analysis techniques in order to identify Medicare and Medicaid claims most likely to contain overpayments, such as incorrectly coded services, short stay admissions, incorrect payment amounts, non-covered services and duplicate payments. The claims review strategies used by RACs generally include a review of high dollar claims, including inpatient hospital claims. As a result, a large majority of the total payment adjustments determined by RACs relate to hospital claims. In addition, CMS employs MICs to perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims to identify potential overpayments. State Medicaid agencies and other private third-party contractors have also increased their review activities. Third-party audits or investigations of Medicare or Medicaid claims could result in increases or decreases in our revenues to be recognized in periods subsequent to when the related healthcare services were performed, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Payment recoveries resulting from post-payment reviews and denials are appealable. However, there are significant delays in the assignment of new Medicare appeals to Administrative Law Judges. According to the Office of Medicare Hearings and Appeals, the average processing time in fiscal year 2017 was over three years. Depending upon the growth of RAC programs and our success in appealing claims, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. A material portion of our revenues are concentrated in a single state which makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in that state.. Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in the state of Illinois where we generate a significant portion of our patient revenues. We currently operate nine hospitals in Illinois, which collectively accounted for 37.2%, 35.1% and 35.3% of our net patient revenues, before the provision for bad debts, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our accounts receivable due from Illinois continue to be delayed due to state budgetary and funding pressures. Accordingly, any change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in this state could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Recently, Illinois announced the 2018 launch of HealthChoice Illinois, an expansion of its Medicaid managed care program to all counties in the state. Changes to the state Medicaid and other governmental payor programs in Illinois, including reductions in reimbursement rates or delays in timing of reimbursement payments, could also have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are unable to predict the ultimate impact of healthcare reform initiatives, including the Affordable Care Act, and our business may be adversely affected if the Affordable Care Act is repealed entirely or if provisions benefitting our operations are significantly modified.. In recent years, the U.S. Congress and certain state legislatures have introduced and passed a large number of proposals and legislation designed to make major changes in the healthcare system, including changes that increased access to health insurance. The most prominent of these efforts, the Affordable Care Act, affects how healthcare services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed. As currently structured, the Affordable Care Act, expands health insurance coverage through a combination of public program expansion and private sector health insurance reforms, reduces Medicare reimbursement to hospitals, and promotes value-based purchasing. There are currently several public and private initiatives that aim to transition payment models from passive volume-based reimbursement to models that are tied to the quality and value of services. We are limited in our ability to reduce the direct costs of providing care to patients. We are unable to predict the nature and success of future financial or delivery system reforms, whether such reforms are implemented by government or other industry participants, such as private payors and large employer groups, or the potential impact of such changes to our operations.. The Trump administration and certain members of Congress have stated their intent to repeal or make significant changes to the Affordable Care Act, its implementation and/or its interpretation. For example, in 2017, Congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the individual mandate, effective January 1, 2019, which may result in fewer individuals electing to purchase health insurance. In addition, a presidential executive order has been signed that directs agencies to minimize \"economic and regulatory burdens\" of the Affordable Care Act. CMS administrators have indicated that they intend to grant states additional flexibility in the administration of state Medicaid programs, including by expanding the scope of waivers under which states may impose different eligibility or enrollment restrictions or otherwise implement programs that vary from federal standards. There is uncertainty regarding whether, when, and how the Affordable Care Act will be further changed, what alternative provisions, if any, will be enacted, the. 31. timing of enactment and implementation of alternative provisions, and the impact of alternative provisions on providers as well as other healthcare industry participants. Further, Congress could eliminate or alter provisions beneficial to us while leaving in place provisions reducing our reimbursement. Efforts to repeal or change the Affordable Care Act or implement other initiatives intended to reform healthcare delivery and financial systems may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity.. If we experience growth in self-pay revenues, or if we experience deterioration in the collectability of patient responsibility accounts, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. The primary uncertainty in collectability of our revenues relates to uninsured patients and the patient financial responsibility portion of payments due from insured patients. Collections on account balances are impacted by the economic ability of patients to pay, the effectiveness of CHS' collection efforts pursuant to our transition services agreements with them, and our own collection efforts. Significant changes in payor mix, centralized business office operations, in-market or overall U.S. economic conditions, or new and changing laws and regulations related to federal and state governmental healthcare coverage, among other things, could adversely impact our estimates of accounts receivable collectability. See \"Item 1. Business  -  Agreements with CHS Related to the Spin-off\" for additional information on the transition services agreements.. In recent years, our self-pay revenues have decreased, primarily due to the insurance expansion provisions of the Affordable Care Act. In particular, we have experienced increasing numbers of individuals covered by Medicaid or commercial insurance plans. However, efforts to repeal or revise the Affordable Care Act have caused uncertainty with regard to the future of this statute and its effects on the size of the uninsured population of U.S. citizens. In 2017, Congress eliminated the financial penalty associated with the individual mandate, effective January 1, 2019. This may result in fewer individuals electing to purchase health insurance. There is also uncertainty regarding the number and identity of states that will ultimately expand their Medicaid programs, and on what terms. These factors, among others, make it difficult to predict changes to the percentage of our revenues comprised of self-pay revenues.. Moreover, we may be adversely affected by growth in the patient financial responsibility portion of payments for services or other conditions or restrictions associated with governmental and non-governmental healthcare plans and programs. Individuals are increasingly using healthcare savings accounts and participating in more narrow or tiered network programs. Our ability to improve collections of our patient accounts (as well as the ability of those collecting patient accounts of our behalf) may be limited by statutory, regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. In addition, a deterioration of economic conditions in the United States could lead to higher levels of uninsured patients, result in higher levels of patients covered by lower-paying governmental programs, result in fiscal uncertainties related to both governmental and non-governmental payors and could limit the economic ability of patients to make payments for which they are responsible. If we experience growth in self-pay revenues volume or deterioration in collectability of patient accounts, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to effectively compete for patients, local residents in the markets where we operate hospitals may choose to use other hospitals and healthcare providers for medical treatment.. The U.S. healthcare industry is highly competitive among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients and physician affiliations. We are the sole provider of general and acute hospital healthcare services in 20 of our markets, which we generally define as the county where our hospital is located, which means we typically have less direct competition for our hospital services. Our hospitals face competition for patients from out-of-market hospitals, including hospitals in urban areas that may have more comprehensive specialty care service lines, more advanced medical equipment and technology, more extensive medical research capabilities and greater access to medical education programs. Patients who receive medical treatment from an out-of-market hospital may subsequently shift their preferences to that hospital for future healthcare services. We also face competition from other specialty care providers, including outpatient surgery, orthopedic, oncology and diagnostic centers that are not affiliated with us. Our hospitals and many of the hospitals with which we compete engage in physician alignment strategies, which may include employing physicians, acquiring physician practice groups, participating in ACOs and, to the extent permitted by law, physician ownership of healthcare facilities.. We face competition from municipal and not-for-profit hospitals. In our markets where we are not the sole provider of general and acute hospital healthcare services, our primary competitor is generally a not-for-profit hospital. Not-for-profit hospitals are typically owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities which are financially supported by endowments and charitable contributions. Not-for-profit hospitals do not pay income or property taxes and can make capital investments without paying sales tax. These financial advantages may better position such hospitals to maintain more modern and technologically upgraded facilities and equipment and to offer more specialized services than those available at our hospitals. If our competitors are better able to attract patients with these offerings, we may experience an overall decline in our patient volumes and operating revenues. Recent consolidations of not-for-profit hospital entities may intensify this competitive pressure.. Our ability to effectively compete for patients is impacted by commercial and managed care payor programs that influence patient choice related to both physicians and hospitals by offering health insurance plans that restrict patient choice of provider. For example, plans with narrow network structures restrict the number of participating in-network provider plans with tiered network structures impose higher cost-sharing obligations on patients that obtain services from providers in a disfavored tier. If we are unable to. 32. participate in plan networks or favorable tiers or are otherwise unable retain or maintain favorable contracts with health plans, our patient volumes may decrease and our revenues may be reduced. In addition, healthcare industry participants are increasingly pursuing alignment initiatives, such as the proposed acquisition of Aetna by CVS Health. Integration among insurers and providers and cost-reduction strategies by large employer groups and their affiliates may shift costs, accelerate further change, and impact our ability to compete in ways that are difficult to predict.. Trends toward increasing clinical transparency and value-based purchasing may have an adverse impact on our competitive position and patient volumes. The CMS Hospital Compare website makes available to the public certain data that hospitals submit in connection with Medicare reimbursement claims, including performance data related to quality measures and patient satisfaction surveys. In addition, hospitals are required to publish their standard charges for healthcare items and services or their policy for allowing the public to review a list of their standard charges for healthcare services. If any of our hospitals achieve poor results on quality of care measures or patient satisfaction surveys, if our results are lower than the results of our competitors, or if our standard charges are higher than our competitors, we may attract fewer patients.. We expect these competitive trends to continue. If we are unable to compete effectively with other healthcare providers, local residents may seek healthcare services from providers other than our hospitals and affiliated outpatient service facilities.. A significant decline in operating results or other indicators of impairment at one or more of our facilities, including outpatient ancillary affiliated entities, could result in a material, non-cash charge to earnings to impair the value of long-lived assets.. Our operations are capital intensive and require significant investment in long-lived assets, including property, equipment, software and other long-lived intangible assets. If one of our hospitals or other healthcare facilities experiences declining operating results or is adversely impacted by one or more of the risk factors related to our business, we may not be able to recover the carrying value of those assets through our future operating cash flows. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether changes in future undiscounted cash flows reflect any potential impairment in the fair value of our long-lived assets. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded impairment of $47.3 million, $166.9 million and $13.0 million because of declining operating results and projections of future cash flows at certain of our hospitals. See Note 3  -  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill in the accompanying financial statements.. If the fair value of one or both of our reporting units declines, it could result in a material, non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill.. The testing of goodwill for impairment requires us to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions related to our cost of capital and other factors impacting our fair value models. Future estimates of fair value could be adversely affected if the actual outcome of one or more of these assumptions changes materially in the future, including lower than expected hospital patient volumes, reduced reimbursement or increased operating costs. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired when events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may not be recoverable.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded $1.9 million of impairment to goodwill related to certain hospitals we classified as held for sale or sold during 2017. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a total of $125.0 million of impairment to the goodwill associated with our hospital operations reporting unit. The fiscal year 2016 impairment charge consisted of two components, a $5.0 million write-down of goodwill related to certain hospitals that we reclassified as held for sale in the second quarter of 2016 and $120.0 million of goodwill impairment resulting from a step two goodwill impairment evaluation as a result of certain indicators of impairment. The primary indicators were our declining market capitalization, as compared to the carrying value of equity, and a decrease in estimated future earnings.. If competition decreases our ability to acquire additional hospitals on favorable terms, we may be unable to execute our acquisition strategy.. An important part of our long-term business strategy is to acquire additional hospitals. However, not-for-profit hospital systems and other for-profit hospital companies generally attempt to acquire the same type of hospitals as we do. Some of our competitors for acquisitions have greater financial resources than we have. Furthermore, some hospitals are sold through an auction process, which may result in higher purchase prices than we believe are reasonable. Therefore, we may not be able to acquire additional hospitals on terms favorable to us.. If we fail to improve the financial and operating performance of acquired and existing hospitals, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy.. Some of our existing hospitals are experiencing lower operating margins than other hospitals in our portfolio. While we do not intend to acquire hospitals that are not accretive to our net operating revenues, it is possible that one or more hospitals we acquire may have lower operating margins than we do or have incurred operating losses prior to the time we acquire them. We may occasionally experience delays in improving the operating margins or effectively integrating the operations of acquired hospitals. In the future, if we are unable to improve the operating margins of these existing hospitals or any acquired hospitals, operate them profitably or. 33. effectively integrate their operations, as applicable, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. To the extent that our operating margins were to decline as a result of financial and operating performance at our hospitals, we could be unable to comply with the covenants contained in our credit agreements or be limited or precluded from obtaining future borrowings by the terms of our credit agreements and the indenture governing our Senior Notes.. The failure or downsizing of large employers, or the closure of manufacturing or other major facilities in our markets, could have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals.. The economies in the markets in which most of our hospitals operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers, especially manufacturing or other major facilities. These employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals and outpatient service facilities for their medical care. The failure of one or more large employers, or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at manufacturing or other facilities located in or near the markets in which we operate hospitals, could cause affected residents to move elsewhere for employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events may cause a reduction in our revenues and adversely impact our results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of operational, legal and financial risks associated with outsourcing functions to third parties.. We have outsourced to CHS, through various transition services agreements, certain services including, among others, services related to patient eligibility screening, billing, accounts receivable collections and other revenue management services and support, as well as information technology, payroll processing and other human resources functions. We take steps to monitor and regulate the performance of any parties in which we delegate services; however, the transition services agreements with CHS were executed in connection with the Spin-off, based upon certain business and financial assumptions. To the extent that any of the transition services agreements are determined not to benefit us in their current form, our ability to renegotiate, rescind or reform any or all of the agreements may be limited or non-existent, and our business could be adversely affected.. Arrangements with third-party service providers may make our operations vulnerable if these vendors fail to satisfy their obligations to us as a result of their performance, changes in their own operations, financial condition or other matters outside of our control. We may also face legal, financial or reputational harm for the actions or omissions of such providers, and we may not have effective recourse against the providers. Effective management, development and implementation of our outsourcing strategies are important to our business strategy. If there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes or our third-party service providers do not perform, we may not be able to fully realize on a timely basis the economic and other benefits of the outsourcing services or other relationships we enter into with key vendors, which could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention from other strategic activities, negatively affect employee morale or create other operational or financial problems for us. Terminating or transitioning arrangements with key vendors, including the transition services agreements with CHS, could result in additional costs and a risk of operational problems, delays in collections from payors, potential errors and possible control issues during the termination and transition processes, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The failure to obtain our medical supplies and drugs at favorable prices could cause our operating results to be adversely affected.. In connection with the Spin-off, we renegotiated and entered into a separate participation agreement with the group purchasing organization (\"GPO\") that we used prior to the Spin-off date. GPOs attempt to obtain favorable pricing on medical supplies and drugs with manufacturers and vendors, sometimes by negotiating exclusive supply arrangements in exchange for discounts. To the extent these exclusive supply arrangements are challenged or deemed unenforceable, we could incur higher costs than anticipated for our medical supplies obtained through the GPO. Also, there can be no assurance that our arrangement with the GPO will provide the expected discounts on a long-term basis. Furthermore, costs of medical supplies and drugs may continue to increase due to market pressure from pharmaceutical companies and new product drug releases. Higher costs could cause our operating results to be adversely affected.. A pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease in the markets in which we operate hospitals, or which otherwise impacts our healthcare facilities, could adversely impact our business.. If a pandemic, epidemic, outbreak of an infectious disease or other public health crisis were to affect any or all of the markets in which we operate hospitals, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Such a crisis could diminish the public's trust in healthcare facilities, especially hospitals that fail to accurately or timely diagnose or that are treating or have treated patients affected by contagious diseases. If any of our healthcare facilities were involved in treating patients for such a contagious disease, other patients might cancel elective procedures or fail to seek needed care from our healthcare facilities. Further, a pandemic might adversely impact our business by causing a temporary shutdown or diversion of patients, by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in the supply chain or by causing staffing shortages in our healthcare facilities. Although we have disaster plans in place and operate pursuant to infectious disease protocols, the potential impact of a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease, with respect to our markets or our healthcare facilities is difficult to predict and could adversely impact our business.. 34. Our performance depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians.. Although we employ some physicians, physicians are often not employees of the healthcare facilities at which they practice. The success of our healthcare facilities depends in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals and other healthcare facilities, our ability to employ or contract with quality physicians, the admitting and utilization practices of employed and non-employee physicians, maintaining good relations with physicians and controlling costs related to the employment of physicians. In many of the markets we serve, many physicians have admitting privileges at other healthcare facilities in addition to our healthcare facilities. Such physicians may terminate their affiliation or employment with our healthcare facilities at any time. If we are unable to provide adequate supporting medical staff or technologically advanced medical equipment and facilities that meet the needs or expectations of those physicians and their patients, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline.. Our labor costs could be adversely affected by competition for medical staff, a shortage of experienced nurses and labor union activity.. In addition to our physicians, the operations of our healthcare facilities are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our hospital management teams and other medical staff, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and medical staff responsible for the daily operations of our healthcare facilities. In some markets across the United States, the availability of nurses and other medical support personnel has been a significant operating issue for healthcare providers. We may be required to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire more expensive temporary or contract medical staff. In addition, some states have, and others could adopt, mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse-staffing ratios already in place. State-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues at hospitals where admissions must be limited in order to meet the required ratios.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 2,400 employees, including approximately 980 part-time employees, at our eight hospitals represented by labor unions. Increased or ongoing labor union activity is another factor that could adversely affect our labor costs or otherwise adversely impact us. To the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, our labor costs could increase significantly. In addition, when negotiating collective bargaining agreements with unions, whether such agreements are renewals or first contracts, there is the possibility that strikes could occur during the negotiation process, and our continued operations during any strike periods could increase our labor costs and otherwise adversely impact our business and results of operations.. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise the standard charges for our healthcare services to offset these increased costs. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenues are subject to fixed reimbursement rates, which constrains our ability to pass along the impact of these increased costs to the patient or other third-party payors. In the event we are not effective at recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical staff, or we are unable to control our labor costs in relation to certain events and circumstances, the increase in our labor costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our hospitals and other healthcare facilities may be negatively impacted by severe weather, earthquakes and other factors beyond our control, which could restrict patient access to care or cause one or more of our facilities to close temporarily.. The results of operations of our hospitals and outpatient service facilities may be adversely impacted by severe weather conditions, including earthquakes, hurricanes and widespread winter storms, or other factors beyond our control that could cause disruption to patient scheduling or displacement of our patients, employees, physicians and clinical staff, and may force certain of our facilities to close temporarily. In certain geographic areas, we have a concentration of hospitals and outpatient service facilities that may be simultaneously affected by adverse weather conditions or events. These types of disruptions due to severe weather could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 35. If our adoption and utilization of electronic health record systems fails to satisfy CMS standards, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Under the HITECH Act, MACRA and other laws, HHS has established Medicare and Medicaid incentive programs to encourage hospitals and healthcare professionals to adopt EHR technology. Eligible hospitals can receive Medicaid incentive payments for their adoption and meaningful use of certified EHR technology; Medicare incentive payments are no longer available. Eligible hospitals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use are subject to Medicare payment reductions. Under the OPP, eligible healthcare professionals are also subject to positive or negative payment adjustments based, in part, on their use of EHR technology. If our hospitals and healthcare professionals are unable to properly adopt, maintain, and utilize certified EHR technology, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments and we could be subject to penalties that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Excluding payment adjustments under the OPP, we expect our EHR incentive payments earned will be approximately $1.5 million for 2018.. If there are delays in regulatory updates by governmental agencies to federal and state healthcare programs, we may experience increased volatility in our operating results as such delays may result in a timing difference between when such program revenues are earned and when they become known or estimable for purposes of accounting recognition.. Our net patient revenues, before the provision for bad debts, from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including Medicare and Medicaid managed care plans, were 46.5%, 46.3% and 45.0% for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The reimbursement payments related to these programs are subject to ongoing legislative and regulatory changes that can have a significant impact on our operating results. When delays occur in the passage of legislation, funding authorizations or the implementation of regulations, we could experience material increases or decreases in our revenues to be recognized in periods subsequent to when the related healthcare services were performed. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recorded net favorable (unfavorable) contractual allowance adjustments in net operating revenues of $2.0 million, $(5.8) million and $(15.1) million, respectively, related to previous program reimbursement estimates and final cost report settlements. The volatility in the timing of recognition as revenues of adjustments to reimbursement payments under these programs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Controls designed by third-party payors to reduce utilization of inpatient services may reduce our revenues.. Over the last several years, third-party payors, including both governmental and non-governmental payors, have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit coverage of inpatient healthcare services. Payors have implemented controls and procedures designed to monitor and reduce patient admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as \"utilization review,\" which have impacted and are expected to continue to impact inpatient admission volumes at our hospitals. Federal laws contain numerous provisions designed to ensure that services rendered by hospitals to Medicare and Medicaid patients meet professionally recognized standards and are medically necessary and that claims for reimbursement are properly filed. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and hospital occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required pre-admission authorization requirements, payor-required post-admission utilization reviews and payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative delivery options for healthcare services for less acutely ill patients. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates by governmental and non-governmental third-party payors could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. If we fail to comply with the extensive laws and governmental regulations that apply to the U.S. healthcare industry, including anti-fraud and abuse laws, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations.. The U.S. healthcare industry is governed by extensive laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations include standards that address, among other issues, the following:. •  the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, and operating policies and procedures;. •  billing and coding for services;. •  proper handling of overpayments;. •  classification of levels of care provided;. •  preparing and filing of cost reports;. •  relationships with referral sources and referral recipients;. •  maintenance of adequate records;. •  compliance with building codes;. •  environmental protection;. •  privacy and security; and. •  debt collection and communications with patients and consumers.. 36. Examples of these laws include, but are not limited to, HIPAA, the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the False Claims Act, EMTALA and similar state laws. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil sanctions and criminal penalties, including the loss of our operating licenses and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. There are heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state governmental agencies relating to the U.S. healthcare industry. Recent enforcement actions have focused on financial arrangements between hospitals and physicians, billing for services without adequately documenting medical necessity and billing for services outside the coverage guidelines for such services. Specific to our hospitals, we have received inquiries and subpoenas from various governmental agencies regarding these and other matters, and we are also subject to various claims and lawsuits relating to such matters. See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" for a further discussion of these matters.. In the future, evolving interpretations or enforcement of the laws and regulations applicable to the U.S. healthcare industry could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes to our healthcare facilities, equipment, personnel, healthcare service offerings, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses.. We could be subject to increased monetary penalties and other sanctions, including exclusion from federal healthcare programs, if we fail to comply with the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement.. On August 4, 2014, CHS became subject to the terms of a five-year CIA with the OIG arising from a civil settlement with the DOJ, other federal agencies and identified relators that concluded previously announced investigations and litigation related to short stay admissions through emergency departments at certain of their hospitals. The OIG has required us to be bound by the terms of the CHS CIA commencing on the Spin-off date and applying to us for the remainder of the five-year compliance term required of CHS, which terminates on August 4, 2019. See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" for additional information on the terms of the CIA.. Material, uncorrected violations of the CIA could lead to our suspension or exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs and subject us to repayment obligations. In addition, we are subject to possible civil penalties for failure to substantially comply with the terms of the CIA, including stipulated penalties ranging between $1,000 and $2,500 per day. We are also subject to a stipulated penalty of $50,000 for each false certification made by us or on our behalf, pursuant to the reporting provisions of the CIA. The CIA increases the amount of information we must provide to the federal government regarding our practices at our healthcare facilities and our compliance with federal regulations. The reports we provide in connection with the CIA could result in greater scrutiny by other regulatory agencies.. We may be adversely affected by consolidation among health insurers and other industry participants.. In recent years, a number of private health insurers have merged or increased efforts to consolidate with other non-governmental payors. Insurers are also increasingly pursuing alignment initiatives with healthcare providers, such as the proposed acquisition of Aetna by CVS. Consolidation within the health insurance industry may result in insurers having increased negotiating leverage and competitive advantages, such as greater access to performance and pricing data. In addition, the trend within the U.S. healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing programs could be accelerated if the large private health insurance companies, including those engaging in consolidation activity, find these programs to be financially beneficial. Other industry participants, such as large employer groups and their affiliates, may intensify competitive pressure and affect the industry in ways that are difficult to predict.. These trends result, in part, from health care reform efforts, including the medical loss ratio (\"MLR\") requirements. The MLR represents the percentage of premiums used to pay patient medical claims and used for programs or activities that improve the quality of patient care. Under the Affordable Care Act, health insurance payors that do not meet minimum MLR requirements must pay premium rebates on group and individual health insurance plan products and, for certain Medicare program products, may be subject to additional penalties. Our ability to negotiate prices and favorable terms with health insurance providers could be negatively impacted by their efforts to satisfy the MLR requirements. We cannot predict whether we will be able to negotiate favorable terms and otherwise respond effectively to the impact of increased consolidation within the payor industry or vertical integration efforts.. We may from time to time become the subject of legal, regulatory and governmental proceedings that, if resolved unfavorably, could have an adverse effect on us, and we may be subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown.. We may from time to time become a party to various legal, regulatory and governmental proceedings and other related matters. Those proceedings include, among other things, governmental investigations. In addition, we may become subject to other loss contingencies, both known and unknown, which may relate to past, present and future facts, events, circumstances and occurrences. Addressing any investigations, lawsuits or other claims may distract management and divert resources, even if we ultimately prevail. Should an unfavorable outcome occur in some or all of any such current or future legal, regulatory or governmental proceedings or other such loss contingencies, or if successful claims and other actions are brought against us in the future, there could be an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. For example, on October 25, 2017, a shareholder (R2 Investments LDC) filed an action in the Circuit Court of Williamson County, Tennessee against us and certain of our officers and directors and CHS and certain its officers and directors. The complaint alleges that the defendants violated the Tennessee Securities Act and common law by, among other things, making alleged false and/or misleading statements and failing to disclose certain information regarding aspects of our business, operations and financial condition. Plaintiff is seeking recessionary, compensatory, and punitive damages. Defending ourselves against these allegations or. 37. other shareholder activities, activism or lawsuits and any related publicity could potentially entail significant costs and could require significant attention from our management. We are unable to predict the outcome of this matter. However, it is reasonably possible that we may incur a loss in connection with this matter. We are unable to reasonably estimate the amount or range of such reasonably possible loss. Under some circumstances, any losses incurred in connection with adverse outcomes in this matter could be material.. Governmental investigations, as well as qui tam lawsuits, may lead to significant fines, penalties, settlements or other sanctions, including exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Settlements of lawsuits involving Medicare and Medicaid issues routinely require both monetary payments and corporate integrity agreements, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. While CHS has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities relating to outcomes or events occurring prior to the closing of the Spin-off, we cannot guarantee that any such legal proceedings or loss contingencies will be covered by such indemnities or that CHS will fully indemnify us thereunder. See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" for additional information on legal proceedings to which we are subject.. We could be subject to substantial uninsured liabilities or increased insurance costs as a result of significant legal actions.. Physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice and other liability claims or legal theories. Even in states that have imposed caps on damage awards, plaintiffs are seeking recoveries under new theories of liability that might not be subject to the caps on damages. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant costs for legal defense. To protect us from the vulnerability to the potentially significant costs arising from these claims, we maintain claims-made professional and general liability insurance coverage in excess of those amounts for which we are self-insured. We believe the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient to cover potential losses of our operations. Our insurance coverage, however, may not continue to be available in the future at a reasonable cost for us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. Additionally, our insurance coverage does not cover all claims against us, such as fines, penalties, or other damage and legal expense payments resulting from qui tam lawsuits. We cannot predict the outcome of current or future legal actions against us or the effect that judgments or settlements in such matters may have on us or on our insurance costs. Additionally, all professional and general liability insurance we purchase is subject to policy limitations. If the aggregate limit of any of our professional and general liability policies is exhausted, in whole or in part, it could deplete or reduce the limits available to pay any other material claims applicable to that policy period. Furthermore, one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill its or their obligations to defend, pay or reimburse us when those obligations become due. In that case, or if payments of claims exceed our estimates or are not covered by our insurance, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although CHS has agreed to indemnify us for certain legal proceedings and our loss contingencies relating to outcomes or events occurring prior to the closing of the Spin-off, we cannot guarantee that any such legal proceedings or loss contingencies will be covered by such indemnities or that CHS will fully indemnify us thereunder.. Our operations could be impaired by a failure of our information systems.. The operation of our information systems is critical to our business operations. We entered into various transition services agreements with CHS that define agreed upon services to be provided by CHS to us. The transition services agreements generally have terms of five years and include, among others, services related to information technology, payroll processing, certain human resources functions, patient eligibility screening, billing, collections and other revenue management services. The majority of our information systems are managed by CHS under the terms of these agreements. In general, information systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, human acts and natural disasters. We believe that CHS takes precautionary measures to prevent problems that could affect our business operations as a result of failure or disruption to their information systems. It is possible that we may be impacted by information system failures. The occurrence of any information system failures could result in interruptions, delays, loss or corruption of data and cessations or interruptions in the availability of these systems. All of these events or circumstances, among others, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and they could harm our business reputation.. A cyber-attack or security breach could result in the compromise of our facilities, confidential patient data or critical systems and give rise to potential harm to patients, remediation and other expenses, expose us to liability under HIPAA, consumer protection laws, common law or other legal theories, subject us to litigation and federal and state governmental inquiries, damage our reputation, and otherwise be disruptive to our business.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage clinical and financial data, to communicate with our patients, payors, vendors and other third parties, and to summarize and analyze our operating results. We have made significant investments in technology to protect our systems and information from cyber-security risks. During the second quarter of 2014, the computer network of CHS was the target of an external, criminal cyber-attack in which the attacker successfully copied and transferred certain data outside CHS. This data included certain non-medical patient identification data (such as patient names, addresses, birthdates, telephone numbers and social security numbers) considered protected under HIPAA, but did not include patient credit card, medical or clinical information. The remediation efforts in response to the attack included continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access.. 38. We have implemented security measures to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of this data and the systems and devices that store and transmit such data. We utilize current security technologies, and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. Despite these efforts, threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities and advanced new attacks against information systems create risk of cyber-security incidents. There can be no assurance that we, or our third-party vendors, will not be subject to cyber-attacks or security breaches in the future. Such attacks or breaches could impact the integrity, availability or privacy of protected patient medical data or other information subject to privacy laws or disrupt our information technology systems, medical devices or business, including our ability to provide various healthcare services. Additionally, growing cyber-security threats related to the use of ransomware and other malicious software threaten the access and utilization of critical information technology and data. As a result, cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, process and practices designed to protect our information systems and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. Our ability to recover from a ransomware or other cyber-attack is dependent on these practices, including successful backup systems and other recovery procedures. As cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest in significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. If we are subject to cyber-attacks or security breaches in the future, this could result in harm to patients; business interruptions and delays; the loss, misappropriation, corruption or unauthorized access of data; litigation and potential liability under privacy, security and consumer protection laws or other applicable laws; reputational damage and federal and state governmental inquiries, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. The industry trend toward value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues.. The trend toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services is gaining momentum across the U.S. healthcare industry among both governmental and commercial payors. Generally, value-based purchasing initiatives tie reimbursement payments to the quality and efficiency of patient care. For example, hospitals that fall into the lowest-performing 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year are subject to a 1% reduction in their total Medicare reimbursement payments. Further, hospitals do not receive Medicare reimbursement payments for care related to HACs. In addition, HHS reduces Medicare inpatient hospital reimbursement payments for all discharges by a required percentage, set at 2% for federal fiscal year 2017 and for subsequent years, and pools the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards. Hospitals are also required to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates under both the Medicare and Medicaid programs.. HHS has indicated that it is particularly focused on tying Medicare payments to quality or value through alternative payment models, which generally aim to make providers attentive to the quality and cost of care they deliver to patients. Examples of alternative payment models include ACOs and bundled payment arrangements. While participation in bundled payment programs is voluntary, CMS has indicated that it is developing more bundled payment models, although it is unclear whether they will successfully lead to increased coordination of care and cost containment. It is possible that the adoption of alternative payment models will decrease the aggregate reimbursements under federal and state healthcare programs.. Several of the largest commercial insurance payors in the United States have also expressed the intent to increase reliance on value-based purchasing. Furthermore, many large commercial insurance payors require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payors do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events.. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement rates on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement payment amounts under both governmental and non-governmental programs and plans. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues, operating costs, or both.. Certificate of need laws and regulations regarding licenses, ownership and operation may impair our future expansion or divestiture opportunities in some states. In states without certificate of need laws, our providers may face lower barriers to entry, but could also face increased competition from other providers.. Some states require prior approval for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities based on the state's determination of need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. In addition, certain states in which we operate hospitals require a CON for, among other things, capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount and changes in bed capacity or healthcare service lines. We may not be able to obtain CONs required for expansion activities that we want to pursue in the future. In addition, we are required to maintain one or more licenses in all of the states in which we operate hospitals. If we fail to obtain a required CON or license, our ability to operate or expand our operations in those states could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, if a CON or other prior approval upon which we relied to invest in construction of a replacement or expanded healthcare facility were to be revoked or lost through an appeal process, we may not be able to recover the value of our investment.. Some states in which we operate do not require CONs for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities or services. Additionally, from time to time, states with existing requirements may repeal or limit the scope of their CON programs for future entry. In these cases, our competing healthcare providers could face lower barriers to entry and expansion into certain states where we operate hospitals. We could face decreased market share and revenues if competing healthcare providers are able to. 39. purchase, construct or expand healthcare facilities, without being subject to regulatory approval, into markets that are in close proximity to those in which we operate hospitals.. If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations.. Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although we plan to generally seek indemnification from sellers covering these matters, we may nevertheless have material liabilities for past activities of acquired hospitals.. State efforts to regulate the sale of hospitals operated by municipal or not-for-profit entities could prevent us from acquiring these types of hospitals and executing on our business strategy.. Many states have adopted legislation regarding the sale or other disposition of hospitals operated by municipalities or not-for-profit entities. In some states that do not have specific legislation, the attorneys general have demonstrated an interest in these transactions under their general obligation to protect the use of charitable assets. These legislative and administrative efforts focus primarily on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller. The review and, in some instances, approval processes can add additional time to the closing of a hospital acquisition. In addition, future state actions could delay or even prevent our ability to acquire these types of hospitals.. Quorum Health Resources, while subject to various risk factors affecting its hospital industry clients, is subject to additional risks related to its unique business model.. The various risk factors stated herein that could result in adverse impacts on the results of operations of our hospitals could similarly affect the hospital and other healthcare clients of our QHR business. Any negative impact on our QHR clients could result in defaults under or terminations of one or more of our contracts, or could result in our inability to attract new management advisory and consulting business. Furthermore, QHR could be subject to allegations of mismanagement, as well as assertions of participation in incidents of alleged malpractice in its position as a management advisor to certain hospital clients. It is possible that resolutions of these actions could require settlements from us that exceed the revenues received from the related hospital client, and this could have a negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or becoming subject to additional federal, state or local taxes, could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding, and ad valorem taxes. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the amount of revenues we receive, the value of any tax loss carryforwards and tax credits recorded on our balance sheet and the amount of our cash flow, and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authority which could increase our tax liabilities. If we are required to pay additional taxes, our costs would increase and our net income would be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law H.R.1, originally known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,\" which includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, a reduction in the corporate income tax rate. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of this tax reform is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, could adversely affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis. Any future material weakness or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting and, as a result, adversely affect our reputation, business or stock price.. We identified a deficiency related to the controls intended to properly document and review on a timely basis our analysis of self-pay patient accounts receivable at a more comprehensive and disaggregated level which included uninsured and insured, primarily co-pays and deductibles, self-pay accounts receivable related to our adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") 2014-09 \"Revenue from Contracts with Customers.\" As described under \"Item 9A - Controls and Procedures,\" we have concluded that the deficiency constitutes a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and, as a result, internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2017.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we have developed and are implementing a plan to remediate this material weakness as described under \"Item 9A - Controls and Procedures\" and believe, based on our evaluation to date, that this material weakness will be remediated during 2018, we cannot assure you that this will occur within the contemplated timeframe. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we are unable to remediate the material weakness, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare. 40. financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, could be adversely affected. The occurrence of or failure to remediate the material weakness may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of our common stock and any other securities we may issue.. We cannot be certain that, in the future, additional material weaknesses or deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If our efforts to address the remaining material weakness identified above are not successful, or if an additional material weakness or deficiency occurs, such weakness or deficiency could result in misstatements in our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in the price of our common stock and stockholder confidence or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Risks Related to the Spin-Off and Our Operations as an Independent Publicly Traded Company. The utilization of our federal income tax loss carryforwards may be subject to certain limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a federal net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforward of approximately $125 million on a pre-tax basis available to offset future taxable income and have recorded a full valuation allowance on these federal NOL carryforwards. Any NOL arising in a taxable year ending before January 1, 2018 may only be carried forward for 20 taxable years following the taxable year of such loss. Any NOL arising in a taxable year ending on or after January 1, 2018 can be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, any NOL deduction with respect to an NOL arising in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017 is limited to 80% of our taxable income in the year in which deduction is taken.. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"Code\") also imposes an annual limitation on the amount of a company's taxable income that may be offset by the NOL carryforwards if it experiences an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change occurs when a company's \"5-percent shareholders,\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code, collectively increase their ownership in a company by more than 50 percentage points, by value, over a rolling three-year period. This is different from a change in beneficial ownership under applicable securities laws. These ownership changes include purchases of common stock under share repurchase programs, a company's offering of its stock, the purchase or sale of company stock by 5-percent shareholders, or the issuance or exercise of rights to acquire company stock. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use the NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income will be subject to an annual limitation and will depend on the amount of taxable income we generate in future periods. There is no assurance that we will be able to fully utilize the NOL carryforwards. We have recorded a full valuation allowance related to the amount of the NOL carryforwards that may not be realized.. The utilization of our state income tax loss carryforwards could be limited if we do not realize profits from our hospital operations to adequately offset these losses in the applicable states where they exist.. As of December 31, 2017, we had state income tax loss carryforwards of approximately $668 million. We expect to be able to realize a small amount of our NOL carryforwards in certain states prior to their expiration. In other states where we hope to improve our financial performance through selective profitable acquisitions of hospitals or, when needed, the divestiture of underperforming hospitals, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to fully realize the tax benefit associated with these state NOL carryforwards. As a result, we have recorded a valuation allowance to offset all or a portion of the deferred tax asset created by the NOL carryforwards in those states. We could be required to record additional valuation allowance related to our state NOL carryforwards based upon our operating results in the future, which could adversely impact our results of operations.. The Spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.. The Spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. An unpaid creditor or an entity vested with the power of such creditor (such as a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy) could claim that the Spin-off left CHS insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that CHS intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature and that CHS did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the Spin-off. If a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the Spin-off as a fraudulent transfer and could impose a number of different remedies, including without limitation, returning our assets or your shares in our company to CHS, voiding our liens and claims against CHS, or providing CHS with a claim for money damages against us in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by CHS and the fair market value of our company at the time of the Spin-off.. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws varies depending on which jurisdiction's law is applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if either the fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), or it is unlikely to be able to pay its liabilities as they become due. No assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that CHS was solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the Spin-off, including the distribution of our common stock.. Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement with CHS, from and after the Spin-off, we are responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to our business. Although we do not expect to be liable for any of these or other obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, it is possible that we could be required to assume responsibility for certain obligations retained by CHS should CHS fail to pay or perform its retained obligations.. 41. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change in control.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, among other things, authorize our Board of Directors (the \"Board\") to issue one or more series of preferred stock, prohibit our shareholders from calling a special meeting of shareholders and provide that Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of legal proceedings initiated by our shareholders. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board, including discouraging takeover attempts that could have resulted in a premium over the market price for shares of our common stock.. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we are required not to enter into any transaction involving an acquisition of our common stock, issuance of our common stock or any other transaction or, to the extent we have the right to prohibit it, to permit any such transaction, that could cause the distribution of our common stock to CHS shareholders to be taxable. We also agreed to indemnify CHS for any tax resulting from any such transactions. Generally, CHS will recognize taxable gain on the distribution of our common stock if there are one or more acquisitions or issuances of our common stock, directly or indirectly, representing 50% or more, measured by vote or value, of our then-outstanding common stock, and the acquisition or issuance is deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution of common stock to CHS shareholders. Any such shares of our common stock acquired, directly or indirectly, within two years before or after the Spin-off date, with exceptions, including public trading by less-than-5% shareholders and certain compensatory stock issuances, will generally be presumed to be part of such a plan unless that presumption is rebutted. As a result, our obligations may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company.. We do not plan to pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends in the future.. We do not currently plan to pay a regular dividend on our common stock. The declaration of any future cash dividends and, if declared, the amount of any such dividends will be subject to our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, financial covenants and other contractual restrictions and to the discretion of our Board. Our Board may take into account such matters as general business conditions, industry practice, our financial condition and performance, our future prospects, our cash needs and capital investment plans, income tax consequences, applicable law and such other factors as our Board may deem relevant. There can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if we do commence the payment of dividends.. The percentage ownership in our common stock of each shareholder may become diluted in the future.. As with any public company, the percentage ownership of our company held by an individual shareholder may become diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or equity awards, which we may grant to officers, directors and certain of our employees. From time to time, we will issue additional options or other stock-based awards to our employees under our employee benefits plans. Such awards will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our shareholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our Board generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock."
