[1] "ITEM  1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks.. Risks related to our business. Global market and economic conditions, as well as the effects of these conditions on our clients' businesses, may adversely affect the Company.. In general, demand for our products and services is highly correlated with general economic conditions. Because a significant part of our business relies on our clients' advertising spending, which is driven in part by economic conditions and customer spending, a prolonged downturn in the global economy and an uncertain economic outlook may further reduce the demand for printing and related services that we provide to these clients. Delays or reductions in clients' spending could have an adverse effect on demand for our products and services which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Economic weakness and constrained advertising spending may result in decreased revenue, operating margin, earnings and growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collecting accounts receivable. In addition, client difficulties may result in increases in bad debt write-offs and allowances for doubtful accounts receivable. Economic downturns may also result in restructuring actions and associated expenses and impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments.. 10. Changes in customer preferences have reduced, and may continue to reduce, demand for our products and services in certain markets. In addition, failure to manage changes in our relationships with our significant clients will have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Many of the end markets in which our clients compete are experiencing changes due to technological progress and changes in customer preferences. In order to grow and remain competitive, we will need to continue to adapt to future changes in technology, enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings to address the changing demands of clients. If we are unable to continue to utilize new and existing technologies to adapt to new distribution methods and address changing customer preferences, our business may be adversely affected.. Technological developments and changing demands of clients may require additional investment in new equipment and technologies. We must monitor changes in our clients' markets and develop new solutions to meet clients' needs. The development of such solutions may be costly and there is no assurance that these solutions will be accepted by clients. If we are unable to adapt to technological changes on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, clients' demand for our products and services may be adversely affected.. In addition, electronic delivery of documents and data, including the online distribution and hosting of media content, offer alternatives to traditional delivery of printed documents. Customers continue to accept electronic substitution in statement printing and forms while online and digital advertising is impacting clients' printed advertising spend. The extent to which customers will continue to accept electronic delivery is uncertain and it is difficult to predict future acceptance of these alternatives. Electronic delivery has adversely affected our products, such as forms and statement printing. To the extent that customers, clients and regulators continue to accept these alternatives, demand for our products and services may be further adversely affected.. During 2017, our five largest clients accounted for 11.1% of our net sales in the aggregate. In addition, we continue to provide products and services, including logistics, pre-media, production and sales services, to LSC and Donnelley Financial and their respective customers. There can be no assurance that our clients, including LSC and Donnelley Financial, will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. The loss of or disruptions related to significant clients may result in a reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to significant clients. This may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Additionally, disputes with significant suppliers, including those related to pricing or performance, may adversely affect our ability to supply products to our clients and also our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our business is dependent upon brand reputation and the quality of our client support and services offerings. If we fail to offer effective client support and services, our brand reputation would be harmed and clients may not use our solutions, which will have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. A high level of client support and service is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our solutions and the maintenance and enhancement of our brand reputation. If we are unable to provide a level of client support and service to meet or exceed the expectations of our clients, we may experience a loss of clients and market share and a decline in our brand reputation which may result in reduced client demand for our solutions. Furthermore, our brand reputation may be impacted by a wide range of factors, some of which are out of our control, including actions of our competitors and third party providers and positive or negative publicity, any or all of which could adversely affect our operations.. Our operations are subject to political and regulatory risks in the countries in which we operate.. Our operations may be substantially affected by both domestic and international political or regulatory risk including general political conditions in the countries in which we operate; unexpected legal, regulatory or tax changes; governmental actions which have the effect of restriction on our business or opportunities or make it more expensive for us to operate in those jurisdictions; and changes in tax laws that would reduce net income due to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs or other restrictions.. In addition, potential political uncertainty in our developed markets, or the perception of such uncertainty, has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets. This may reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively anticipate and manage these and other risks associated with our domestic and international operations.. 11. We are subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions.. We are a U.S.-based global company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law on December 22, 2017 and represents the most significant change to U.S. tax law since 1986. As a result of the Tax Act, we are subject to a one-time transition tax on foreign earnings and have recorded a provisional estimate for this item, as well as other items, in our 2017 results of operations. We continue to analyze the impact of the Tax Act on our Company. In the future, we may be subject to additional taxes as required under the Tax Act, including current tax on foreign earnings and possibly significant limitations on deductions for certain items, such as interest on debt. In addition, we may be required to make material adjustments to provisional items recorded. All of these factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Many countries are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Adverse credit market conditions, our operating performance and our creditworthiness may limit our ability to obtain future financing and the cost of any such capital may be higher than in past periods.. We have a substantial amount of outstanding debt at December 31, 2017 which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Uncertainty and volatility in global financial markets may cause financial institutions to fail, lenders to reduce lending or investors to reinvest in assets that are considered less risky. The failure of a financial institution that supports our existing credit agreement would reduce the size of its committed facility unless a replacement institution was added. Any future capital markets transactions will be dependent on our financial performance as well as market conditions, which may result in receiving financing on terms less favorable to us than our existing financings. In addition, our access to future financing and our ability to refinance existing debt will depend on a variety of factors such as our financial performance, the general availability of credit, our credit ratings and credit capacity at the time we pursue such financing.. Our current corporate credit ratings are below investment grade and, as a result, our borrowing costs may further increase and our ability to borrow may be limited. In September 2017, we amended and restated our revolving credit facility (the \"Credit Agreement\"). The Credit Agreement provides for a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, which is scheduled to mature on September 29, 2022, of up to $800.0 million, subject to a borrowing base. The maximum availability under the Credit Agreement increases and decreases with changes in the amount of accounts receivable, inventory, machinery, equipment and fee-owned real estate of the Company and the Guarantors (collectively, the \"Borrowing Base\"), subject to certain eligibility criteria and advance rates.. If adequate capital is not available to us and our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, or if future financings require more restrictive covenants, such combination of events could adversely affect our ability to (i) acquire new businesses or enter new markets, (ii) service or refinance our existing debt, (iii) pay dividends on common stock, (iv) make necessary capital investments, and (v) make other expenditures necessary for the ongoing conduct of our business.. Our Credit Agreement limits our borrowing capacity to the value of certain of our assets. In addition, our Credit Agreement is secured by certain assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries, and lenders may exercise remedies against the collateral in the event of our default.. Our borrowing capacity under our Credit Agreement is equal to the lesser of (i) $800.0 million and (ii) the Borrowing Base. In the event of any material decrease in the amount of or appraised value of the assets in the Borrowing Base, our borrowing capacity would similarly decrease, which could adversely affect our business and liquidity.. Certain restrictions on operations become applicable if our availability falls below certain thresholds. These restrictions could impose significant operating and financial limitations and restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to enter into particular transactions and to engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business.. 12. In the event of a default under our Credit Agreement, the lenders' commitment to extend further credit under our Credit Agreement could be terminated, our outstanding obligations could become immediately due and payable, outstanding letters of credit may be required to be cash collateralized and remedies may be exercised against the collateral. If we are unable to borrow under our Credit Agreement, we may not have the necessary cash resources for our operations and, if any event of default occurs, there is no assurance that we would have the cash resources available to repay such accelerated obligations, refinance such indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or cash collateralize our letters of credit, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We may not be able to reduce or extinguish our material indebtedness, and as a result we may have increased financial leverage, which may adversely affect our business.. We may not be able to reduce or extinguish our material indebtedness. We have substantial indebtedness and if we are unable to reduce this indebtedness, we will continue to have increased financial leverage. Our interest and principal payments are significant. In addition, our ability to make payments on, repay or refinance, such debt, will depend largely upon our future operating performance.. The indentures governing our outstanding notes and debentures do not contain restrictive covenants and we may incur substantially more debt or take other actions, including engaging in mergers and acquisitions, paying dividends and making other distributions to holders of equity securities, and disposing of certain assets, which may adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under the notes and debentures issued under our indentures.. Although the Credit Agreement is subject to a number of negative and financial covenants, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in mergers and acquisitions, pay dividends and make other distributions to the holders of our equity securities, and dispose of certain assets, the indentures governing our outstanding notes and debentures do not contain financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the incurrence of indebtedness, the payment of dividends or making other distributions, or the disposition of certain assets. In addition, the limited covenants applicable to the notes and debentures do not require us to achieve or maintain any minimum financial results relating to our financial position or results of operations.. In carrying out our strategy focused on maximizing long-term stockholder value, we may enter into transactions which may increase our financial leverage. Our ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indentures governing our notes and debentures may have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on those notes and debentures when due, and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund our operations, working capital and capital expenditures.. We may be adversely affected by a decline in the availability of raw materials or by fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials.. We are dependent on the availability of paper, ink and other raw materials to support our operations. As such, purchases of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials represent a large portion of our costs. Increases in the costs of these inputs may increase our costs and we may not be able to pass these costs on to clients through higher prices. Increases in the cost of materials may adversely affect clients' demand for our printing and related services. Other unforeseen developments in these markets may result in a decrease in the supply of paper, ink or other raw materials which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be unable to improve our operating efficiency rapidly enough to meet market conditions.. Because the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, we must continue to improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve our profitability. There is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology.. A decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company may result in the impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets.. In prior years we have recorded significant goodwill and other long-lived asset impairments and continue to hold goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability may call into question the recoverability of our related goodwill, other long-lived tangible and intangible assets or deferred tax assets and require the write down or write off of these assets or, in the case of deferred tax assets, recognition of a valuation allowance through a charge to income. Such events have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. 13. Our services depend on the reliability of computer systems we and our vendors maintain. If our systems fail or are unreliable, our operations may be adversely affected.. We depend on our information technology and data processing systems to operate our business, and a significant malfunction or disruption in the operation of our systems may disrupt our business and adversely affect our ability to operate and compete in the markets we serve. These systems include systems that we own and operate, as well as those systems of our vendors. Such systems are susceptible to malfunctions and interruptions due to equipment damage and power outages and a range of other hardware, software and network problems. We also periodically upgrade and install new systems, which if installed or programmed incorrectly, may cause significant disruptions. If a disruption occurs, we may incur losses and costs for interruption of our operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We may suffer a data breach of sensitive information. If our efforts to protect the security of such information are unsuccessful, any such failures may result in significant costs to investigate and remediate the data-breach, private litigation expense and costly government enforcement actions and penalties, and may have an adverse effect on our operations and reputation.. Maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions is an issue of critical importance for us and for our clients and users who rely on us to protect the confidentiality of certain information they provide us. Many of our clients' industries are highly regulated and have established standards and requirements for safeguarding the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information relating to their businesses and customers. Confidential and sensitive information stored in our systems are susceptible to cybercrime, or threats of intentional disruption, which are increasing in terms of sophistication and frequency. Disclosure of the information maintained on our systems due to human error, breach of our systems through hacking or cybercrime, a leak of confidential information due to employee misconduct or other such events may damage our reputation, subject us to regulatory enforcement action and cause significant reputational harm for our clients, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The highly competitive market for our products and industry consolidation may continue to create adverse price pressures.. The markets for the majority of our product categories are highly fragmented and we have a large number of competitors. Management believes that excess capacity in our markets has caused downward price pressure and that this trend is likely to continue. In addition, consolidation in the markets in which we compete may increase competitive price pressures due to competitors lowering prices.. We believe that selectively pursuing acquisitions is an important strategy for our Company. If our competitors are able to successfully combine with one another or otherwise consolidate, the competitive landscape would be significantly altered. Such consolidation would create stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader manufacturing and distribution capabilities than our own, and, if we are not successful with our own efforts to consolidate or adapt effectively to increased competition, the resulting increase in competitive pressures may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We have in the past acquired, and intend in the future to acquire, other businesses, and we may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of these businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased net sales anticipated as a result of these acquisitions.. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management's attention from our day-to-day operations. In addition, the process of integrating operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses and the loss of our key personnel or the acquired businesses. Further, employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may disrupt our operations or the operations of the acquired businesses. Our strategy is, in part, predicated on our ability to realize cost savings and to increase net sales through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of our products and services. Achieving these cost savings and net sales increases is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, we may not be able to realize the benefits of more comprehensive product and service offerings, anticipated integration of sales forces, asset rationalization and systems integration.. 14. The trend of increasing costs to provide health care and other benefits to our employees and retirees may continue.. We provide health care and other benefits to employees and retirees. Costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, our cost to provide such benefits may increase, adversely affecting our profitability. Changes to health care regulations in the U.S. may also increase our cost of providing such benefits.. Changes in market conditions or lower returns on assets may increase required pension and other postretirement benefits plan contributions in future periods.. The funded status of our pension and other postretirement benefits plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level of certain market interest rates. Market conditions may lead to changes in the discount rates used to value the year-end benefit obligations of the plans, which may partially mitigate or worsen the effects of lower asset returns. If adverse market conditions were to continue for an extended period of time, our costs and required cash contributions associated with pension and other postretirement benefits plans may substantially increase in future periods.. We may be more vulnerable to adverse events and trends associated with operations outside the U.S.. We have significant operations outside the U.S. Conducting business outside the U.S. subjects us to a number of additional risks and challenges, including:. •  periodic changes in a specific country's or region's economic conditions, such as recession;. •  compliance with a wide variety of domestic and foreign laws and regulations (including those of municipalities or provinces where we have operations) and unexpected changes in those laws and regulatory requirements, including uncertainties regarding taxes, social insurance contributions and other payroll taxes and fees to governmental entities, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers;. •  unanticipated restrictions on our ability to sell to foreign clients where sales of products and the provision of services may require export licenses;. •  certification requirements;. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including those resulting from inflation, and currency devaluation activities;. •  inadequate protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;. •  potential political, legal and economic instability, foreign conflicts, terrorism and the impact of regional and global infectious illnesses in the countries in which we and our clients, suppliers and contract manufacturers are located;. •  difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas and cultures, including assuring compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U. S. and foreign anticorruption laws; and. •  fluctuations in freight rates and transportation disruptions.. These factors, individually or in combination, may impair our ability to effectively deliver our products and services, result in unexpected expenses, or cause an unexpected decline in the demand for our products in certain countries or regions. Specifically with respect to our operations in China, our financial performance may be subject to the following risks, among others, regulation of foreign investment and business activities by the Chinese government, including recent scrutiny of foreign companies, may limit our ability to expand our business in China; uncertainties with respect to the legal system in China may limit the legal protections available to us in China; government restrictions on the remittance of currency out of China and the ability of any subsidiary we may establish in China to pay dividends and make other distributions to us; and potential unfavorable tax consequences as a result of our operations in China. Our failure to manage the risks and challenges associated with our international business and operations may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. We are exposed to significant risks related to potential adverse changes in currency exchange rates.. We are exposed to market risks resulting from changes in the currency exchange rates of the currencies in the countries in which we do business. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the operating results of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into our consolidated financial statements. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues and expenses or other transactions are not in the applicable local currency, we may enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. We cannot be sure, however, that our efforts at hedging will be successful, and such efforts may, in certain circumstances, adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. 15. Catastrophic events may damage or destroy our factories, distribution centers or other facilities, which may disrupt our business.. Natural disasters, conflicts, wars, terrorist attacks, fires or other catastrophic events may cause damage or disruption to our factories, distribution centers or other facilities, which may adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, cause delays in the delivery of products and services to our clients, and create inefficiencies in our supply chain. An event of this nature may also prevent us from maintaining ongoing operations and performing critical business functions. While we maintain backup systems and operate out of multiple facilities to reduce the potentially adverse effect of these types of events, a catastrophic event that results in the destruction of any of our major factories, distribution centers or other facilities would affect our ability to conduct normal business operations, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Changes in rules and regulations to which we are subject may increase our costs, which may adversely affect the Company.. We are subject to numerous rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, product safety, environmental and health and welfare benefit regulations. These rules and regulations may be changed by local, state or federal governments in countries in which we operate. Changes in these regulations may result in a significant increase in our costs to comply. Compliance with changes in rules and regulations may require increases to our workforce, increased cost for compensation and benefits, or investments in new or upgraded equipment. In addition, growing concerns about climate change, including the impact of global warming, may result in new regulations with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and/or \"cap and trade\" legislation. Compliance with new rules and regulations or changes in existing rules and regulations may result in additional costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Many of our clients are subject to rules and regulations requiring certain printed or electronic communications, governing the form of such communications and protecting the privacy of customers. For instance, our healthcare and insurance printing businesses are subject to such regulations. Changes in these regulations may impact clients' business practices and may reduce demand for our products and services. Changes in such regulations may eliminate the need for certain types of communications altogether or may impact the quantity or format of such communications.. Changes in postal rates, regulations and delivery structure may adversely affect demand for our products and services.. Postal costs are a significant component of many of our clients' cost structure and postal rate changes can influence the number of pieces and types of mailings that our clients mail. On April 10, 2016, the USPS removed the exigent surcharge, which was approved in December 2013, resulting in a 4.3% decrease in postage rates for all significant mail categories. As allowed under postal law, entitled the 2006 Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act (\"PAEA\"), the USPS implemented a CPI based postage increase on January 22, 2017 of approximately 1.0%. In addition, there is a pending bi-partisan legislative proposal (still in Committee) agreed to on March 16, 2017 that seeks to stabilize the financial condition of the USPS, which among other things calls for levying a 2.15% increase on market-dominant mail products. Nevertheless, the Postal Regulatory Commission (\"PRC\") on November 6, 2017 adjusted and approved a USPS filing for a CPI based average price increase of 1.927% for First-Class Mail, 1.936% for Marketing Mail (aka Standard Mail), 1.924% for Periodicals Mail, 1.960% for Package Services Mail and 1.987% for Special Services which became effective January 21, 2018.. In addition, the USPS has incurred significant financial losses in recent years and may, as a result, implement significant changes to the breadth or frequency of its mail delivery. The impact of the USPS's restructuring plans, many of which require legislative action, cannot currently be estimated. If implemented, such changes would impact our clients' ability or willingness to communicate by mail. Declines in print volumes mailed would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Increased transportation costs and changes in the relationships with independent shipping companies may have an adverse effect on our business.. We rely upon third party carriers for timely delivery of our product shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including employee strikes, inclement weather and increased fuel costs. Any failure to deliver products to our clients in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and brand and may cause us to lose clients. If our relationship with any of these third party carriers is terminated or impaired, or if any of these third parties are unable to ship products for us, we would be required to use alternative, and possibly more expensive, carriers for the shipment of products. We may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, if at all, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 16. Furthermore, shipping costs represent a significant operational expense for us. Changes in shipping terms, or the inability of these third party shippers to perform effectively (whether as a result of mechanical failure, casualty loss, labor stoppage, or any other reason), may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, deterioration of the financial condition of these third-party carriers may have an adverse effect on our shipping costs. Any future increases in shipping rates may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, particularly if we are unable to pass on these higher costs to our clients.. Undetected errors or failures found in our products and services may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and services that may seriously harm our business.. Our products and services may contain undetected errors or scalability limitations at any point, but particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. We frequently release new versions of our products and different aspects of our platform are in various stages of development. Despite testing by us and by current and potential clients, errors may not be found in new products and services until after commencement of commercial availability or use, resulting in a loss of or a delay in market acceptance, damage to our reputation, client dissatisfaction and reductions in net sales and margins, any of which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including management.. Our success depends, in part, on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of our employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain skilled personnel may have an adverse effect on the Company. Various locations may encounter competition with other manufacturers for skilled labor. Many of these competitors may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices than we offer. In addition, many members of our management team have significant industry experience that is valuable to our competitors. We enter into non-solicitation and, as appropriate, non-competition agreements with certain of our executive officers, prohibiting them contractually from soliciting our clients and employees and from leaving and joining a competitor within a specified period. Our inability to hire and retain talented employees or the loss of senior members of our senior management team may result in challenges or temporary difficulty in managing our business, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. The spinoff transactions could result in significant tax liability.. We obtained an opinion from our outside legal counsel substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distributions in connection with the spinoff transactions qualify as tax-free distributions under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The opinion will not be binding on the IRS or the courts. Additionally, we have received a private letter ruling from the IRS concluding that certain limited aspects of the distributions will not prevent the distributions from satisfying certain requirements for tax-free treatment under the Code. The opinion and the private letter ruling rely on customary factual representations and assumptions, which if incorrect or inaccurate may jeopardize the ability to rely on such opinion and letter ruling.. If either or both of the distributions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold the common stock of such spun-off entity in a taxable sale for its fair value. In that case, we expect that RRD stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a distribution equal to the fair value of the spun-off entity's common stock that was distributed to them, which generally would be treated first as a taxable dividend to the extent of our earnings and profits, then as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of each holder's tax basis in its Company common stock, and thereafter as capital gain with respect to any remaining value. We expect that the amount of any such taxes to RRD stockholders and us would be substantial if this were to occur."
