[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are many factors that affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The risks described in this report are not the only risks facing our Company.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.. Because of the significant percentage of our sales to certain customers, the loss of, or a substantial decline in sales to, a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. For 2017, 2016 and 2015 we derived 62%, 70%, and 49% of our revenues from our five largest customers during these periods. These five customers in 2017 were Philips Healthcare, Verizon Wireless, Nokia Solutions and Networks, Reliance Jio Infocomm and NEC, each of which purchase a variety of products from us. During 2017, revenue attributable to our largest customer, Philips Healthcare, was 23.2%. In 2016, revenue attributable to our largest customer, Verizon Wireless, was 35.9% and in 2015, revenue attributable to our largest customer, Nokia Solutions and Networks, was 16%. Due to our significant customer concentration, our largest customers have additional pricing power over us that can adversely affect revenues and gross margins or cause us to exit lines of business with them that do not meet profitability objectives. Further, a financial hardship experienced by, or a substantial decrease in sales to, any one of these customers could materially affect our revenues and profitability. Generally, our products are components for our customers' products and in certain instances our customers are not the end-users of our products. If any of these customers' efforts to market the products we design and manufacture for them or the end products into which our products are incorporated are unsuccessful in the marketplace or if these customers experience a decrease in demand for such products, our design wins, sales and/or profitability will be significantly reduced. Furthermore, if these customers experience adverse economic conditions in the end markets into which they sell our products, we would expect a significant reduction in spending by these customers in addition to increasing our exposure to credit risk, which may limit our ability to collect. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change and economic uncertainty and as such there is no guarantee that the revenues associated with the potential loss of a key customer will be replaced by the establishment of new business relationships. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in demand from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition.. We use one contract manufacturer and two integration partners to assemble certain products, and a loss or degradation in performance of our contract manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our business or our profitability.. If our third party partners fails to adequately perform, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Among other things, inadequate performance by our third party partners could include the production or integration of products that do not meet our quality standards or schedule and delivery requirements and could cause us to manufacture products internally or seek additional sources of manufacturing. Additionally, our third party partners may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. If we are required to change third party partners or assume internal manufacturing or integration operations due to any termination of the agreements with our third party partners, we may lose revenue, experience manufacturing or integration delays, incur increased costs or otherwise damage our customer relationships. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish alternative third party relationships on similar terms. Furthermore, our third party partners could require us to move to another production facility.  This could disrupt our ability to fulfill customer orders during a transition and impact our ability to utilize our current supply chain and attain raw materials.. Additionally, if our third party partners are responsible for patent or copyright infringement (including through the supply of counterfeit parts), we may or may not be able to hold them responsible and we may incur costs in defending claims or. 12. providing remedies. Such infringements may also cause our customers to abruptly discontinue selling the impacted products, which would adversely affect our net sales of those products, and could affect our customer relationships more broadly.. If we experience delays in the customer implementation process of our next-generation products, it could delay our ability to recognize expected revenues, increase our anticipated costs and otherwise negatively impact our growth expectations.. Our customer relationships and overall business in will suffer if we encounter significant problems implementing our next-generation products.  To the extent we encounter difficulties in implementing our next-generation products, we may be required to incur additional costs, including research and development costs, to address issues identified during the process.  Delays in implementation of our next-generation products could harm our reputation, cause us to lose existing customers, lead to potential customer disputes or limit the adoption rate of our solutions, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Our failure to develop and introduce new products and applications or enhancements to existing products and applications on a timely basis could harm our ability to attract and retain customers.. Our industry is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater performance and functionality. Therefore, we must continually identify, design, develop and introduce new and updated products and applications with improved features to remain competitive. To introduce these products and applications on a timely basis we must:. •  design innovative and performance-improving features that differentiate our products and applications from those of our competitors;. • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets, including new standards for our products and applications in a timely manner;. • accurately define and design new products and applications to meet market needs;. • anticipate changes in end-user preferences with respect to our customers' products;. • rapidly develop and produce these products and applications at competitive prices;. • anticipate and respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and. • provide effective technical and post-sales support for these new products and applications as they are deployed.. The process of developing new technology products and applications and enhancing existing products and applications is complex, costly and uncertain.  If we fail to anticipate our customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and applications. If we are unable to extend our core technologies into new applications and new platforms and to anticipate or respond to technological changes, the market's acceptance of our products and applications could decline and our results would suffer. Additionally, any delay in the development, production, marketing or offering of a new product or application or enhancement to an existing product or application could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenues, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position. We maintain strategic relationships with third parties to market certain of our products and applications and support certain functionality. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our strategic relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace, to reach new customers and geographies or to grow our revenues would be impaired and our operating results would suffer.. The quality of our hardware, software, support and services offerings is important to our direct service provider customers, and if we fail to offer high quality support and services, mobile service providers may not buy our solutions and our revenue may decline.. Once our solutions are deployed within our mobile service provider customers' networks, the customers generally depend on our support organization to resolve issues relating to those solutions. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our solutions. If we are unable to provide the necessary level of support and service to our customers, we could experience:. • a loss of customers and market share;. • a failure to attract new customers, including in new geographic regions;. • increased service, support and warranty costs or claims; and. • network performance penalties, including liquidated damages for periods of time that our customers' networks are inoperable.. 13. Any of the above results would likely have a material adverse impact on our business, revenue, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and reputation.. Our software and hardware products may contain defects, which would reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us.. We develop complex and evolving products. Despite testing by us and our customers, undetected errors or defects may be found in existing or new products. The introduction of products with reliability, quality or compatibility problems could result in reduced revenues, additional costs, increased product returns and difficulty or delays in collecting accounts receivable. The risk is higher with products still in the development stage, where full testing or certification is not yet completed. This could result in, among other things, a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. We could also be subject to material claims by customers that are not covered by our insurance.. Our future performance depends in part on the research and development efforts of third parties.. We purchase technology from a number of third parties that is used in the development of new software and hardware products. If our third party vendors fail to adequately develop new products that meet our specifications, timeliness and cost targets, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected as we may be unable to meet our customer delivery commitments or maintain pace with the development efforts of our competitors.. Our ability, as well as our contract manufacturer's and integration partner's ability, to meet customer demand depends largely on our ability to obtain raw materials and a reduction or disruption in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our business.. The recent global economic contraction has caused many of our component suppliers to reduce their manufacturing capacity. As the global economy improves, our component suppliers are experiencing and may continue to experience supply constraints until they expand capacity to meet increased levels of demand. These supply constraints may adversely affect the availability and lead times of components for our products. Increased lead times mean we may have to forsake flexibility in aligning our supply to customer demand changes and increase our exposure to excess inventory since we may have to order material earlier and in larger quantities. Further, supply constraints will likely result in increased expediting and overall procurement costs as we attempt to meet customer demand requirements. In addition, these supply constraints may affect our ability, as well as our contract manufacturer's ability, to meet customer demand and thus result in missed sales opportunities and a loss of market share, negatively impacting revenues and our overall operating results.. Because of the limited number of direct, and indirect suppliers, or in some cases, one supplier, for some of the components we and our contract manufacturer and integrations partners use, a loss of a supplier, a decline in the quality and/or a shortage in any of these components could have a material adverse effect on our business or our profitability.. There are only a limited number of direct and indirect suppliers, or in some cases, only one supplier, for a continuing supply of the components our contract manufacturer and integrations partners use in the manufacturing and integration of our products and any disruption in supply could adversely impact our financial performance. For example, certain silicon is solely sourced from large silicon producers. We obtain these components from resellers, integrators and component manufacturers. Alternative sources of components that are procured from one supplier or a limited number of suppliers could be difficult to locate and/or would require a significant amount of time and resources to establish. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience difficulty obtaining adequate quantities of key components used in certain of our products, which have resulted and may result in delayed or lost sales. Delayed sales can also result from our silicon vendors' delays or cancellations of new technologies and products as these technologies and products are often designed into our new products before they are fully available from our suppliers. In addition, current economic conditions expose us to an increased risk of vendor insolvency, which, given our reliance upon a limited supply base, could result in an inability to procure adequate quantities of materials and components to meet our customers' demand and/or ability to procure the quality of materials and components our customers require.. Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business and our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, nuclear power plant accidents, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. Such events. 14. could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, our business could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of our manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority of our research and development activities and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, losses, significant recovery time and substantial expenditures could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We intend to develop new products and applications and expand into new markets, which may not be successful and could harm our operating results.. We intend to expand into new markets and develop new products and applications based on our existing technologies integrated with new technologies organically developed or acquired such as our new FlowEngine and DCEngine product lines.  These efforts have required and will continue to require us to make substantial investments, including but not limited to significant research, development and engineering expenditures.  We plan to devote significant resources to the development of technologies and applications in markets where our operating history is less extensive. These new offerings and markets may require a considerable investment of technical, financial, compliance and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their larger presence, larger developer network, deeper market experience and larger sales, consulting and marketing resources. If we are unable to successfully establish new offerings in light of the competitive environment, our operating results may suffer.  Additionally, many of the new products and applications we are working on may take longer and more resources to develop and commercialize than originally anticipated. Specific risks in connection with expanding into new products and markets include, but are not limited to, the inability to transfer our quality standards and technology into new products, the failure of customers to accept our new products, longer product development cycles and competition and intellectual property disputes.  New products and applications could subject us to increased risk of liability related to the provision of services as well as cause us to incur significant technical, legal or other costs.  We may not be able to successfully manage expansion into new markets and products and these unsuccessful efforts may harm our financial condition and operating results.. The segments of the software industry in which we participate are intensely competitive, and our inability to compete effectively could harm our business.. We experience significant competition from a variety of sources with respect to the marketing and distribution of our products and applications. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing or technical resources than we do and may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition could make it more difficult for us to maintain our market presence or lead to downward pricing pressure.  In addition, the marketplace for new products and applications is intensely competitive and characterized by low barriers to entry.  As a result, new competitors possessing technological, marketing or other competitive advantages may emerge and rapidly acquire market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing their ability to deliver products and applications that better address the needs of our prospective customers. Current and potential competitors may also be more successful than we are in having their products or technologies widely accepted. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results.. Our projections of future purchase orders, revenues and earnings are highly subjective and may not reflect future results which could negatively affect our financial results and cause volatility in the price of our common stock.. We have several contracts with most of our major customers but these contracts do not typically commit our customers to purchase a minimum amount of our products. These contracts generally require our customers to provide us with forecasts of their anticipated purchases. However, our experience indicates that customers may change their purchasing patterns quickly in response to market demands, changes in their management or strategy, among other factors, and therefore these forecasts may not be relied upon to accurately forecast sales. From time to time we provide projections to our shareholders and the investment community of our future sales and earnings. Because we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order cycle is short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our sales and related earnings in any given period. Our projections are based on management's best estimate of sales using historical sales data, information from customers and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our. 15. customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their customers and the relevant markets. Our period to period revenues have varied in the past and may continue to vary in the future.. Unanticipated reductions in purchase orders from our customers may also result in us having to write off excess or obsolete inventory. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available or if our customers experience a financial hardship or if we experience unplanned cancellations of customer contracts, the current provision for inventory reserves may be inadequate and as a result we could forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, and as stated above, we have a high degree of customer concentration. Any significant change in purchases by any one of our large customers may significantly affect our sales and profitability.. If demand for our products and applications fluctuates, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Important factors that could cause demand for our products and applications to fluctuate include:. • changes in customer product needs;. • changes in the level of our customers' inventory;. • changes in business and economic conditions;. • changes in the mix of products and applications we sell; and. • market acceptance of our products and applications.. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by numerous factors, such as general economic and market conditions, changes in analysts' estimates regarding earnings as well as factors relating to the commercial systems and communication networking markets in general. We cannot accurately forecast all of the above factors. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons may not be indicative of future operating results. Our operating results in any future period may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors.. Our business depends on conditions in primary markets into which we sell our products and applications.  Demand in these markets can be cyclical and volatile, and any inability to sell products to these markets or forecast customer demand due to unfavorable or volatile market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin.. Many of our products and applications are components for our customers' products and, in certain instances, our customers are not the end-users of our products and applications. If our customers experience adverse economic conditions in the end markets into which they sell our products, we would expect a significant reduction in spending by our customers. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, consolidation of providers and economic uncertainty. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in customer demand in these end markets could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. We are expanding into applications either through new product development projects with our existing customers or through new customer relationships, but no assurance can be given that this strategy will be successful.. In addition, customer demand for our products and applications is subject to significant fluctuation. A prolonged economic downturn in the business or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for our products and applications and result in a decline in our revenue, gross margin and overall profitability. Volatility and disruption of financial and credit markets could limit our customers' ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and invest in network infrastructure and therefore could also reduce demand for our products and applications and result in a decline in our revenue, gross margin and overall profitability. If we overestimate demand, we may experience underutilized capacity and excess inventory levels. As such, if we underestimate demand, we may miss sales opportunities and incur additional costs for labor overtime, equipment overuse and logistical complexities. Additionally, we have adverse purchase commitment liabilities pursuant to which we are contractually obligated to place a deposit with our contract manufacturer for the cost of excess inventory used in the manufacture of our products and applications for which there is no forecasted or alternative use. Unexpected decreases in customer demand or our inability to accurately forecast customer demand could also result in increases in our adverse purchase commitment liability and have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability.. We rely on our key management and depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could adversely impact our business.. A small number of key executives manage our business. Their departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our. 16. operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if incentive programs we offer are not considered desirable by current and prospective employees, we may have difficulty retaining or recruiting qualified personnel. If we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, our product development, marketing and sales may be harmed.. The success of our business is dependent upon successfully managing our international operations and attracting and retaining key international employees.. Substantially all of our product development and operations centers are located in India and China.  This international presence results in risks that are inherent in doing business on an international level. These risks include:. • difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language and cultural differences;. • different or conflicting laws and regulations;. • accounting (including managing internal control over financial reporting in our non-U.S. subsidiaries), tax and legal complexities arising from international operations;. • burdensome regulatory requirements and unexpected changes in these requirements, including data protection requirements;. • political and economic instability;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and. • different laws and regulations surrounding taxes and their potentially adverse consequences.. Our foreign currency exchange risk management program is designed to reduce, but does not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. If we cannot manage our international operations successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and similar anti-bribery laws and regulations in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing an improper advantage.  Our policies mandate compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws worldwide.  However, if we are found to be in violation of the FCPA or other similar anti-bribery laws or regulations, whether due to our or others' actions or inadvertence, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions that could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation or ability to do business.. Acquisitions, divestitures and partnerships may be more costly or less profitable, or a sale of the Company may be at a lower price, than anticipated and may adversely affect the price of our common stock.. As part of our business strategy, we routinely engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures in order to manage our product and technology portfolios as part of and to further our strategic objectives. We have from time to time received inquiries and initiated discussions regarding potential strategic alternatives, including inquiries and discussions regarding a possible sale of the Company. We will likely continue to receive inquiries and initiate discussions regarding potential strategic alternatives in the future. We currently have no agreements or commitments to engage in any specific strategic transactions, but we may enter into such a transaction at any time. In addition, our strategy may include the divestiture of certain product lines as we seek to maximize shareholder value or improve our cash position.  We also continually explore opportunities to increase the profitability of our operations through restructuring efforts and to consolidate operations across facilities where synergies exist. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable acquisition, alliance or divestiture candidates, complete these transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and, if applicable, integrate acquired companies. Integration and other risks of acquisitions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, and may make the completion of subsequent transactions more difficult.. A successful sale of the Company or divestiture of a business unit depends on various factors, including our ability to effectively transfer assets and liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser, identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep and reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets of the business.. Managing acquisitions and divestitures requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert management's attention from our other business operations. Acquisitions, including abandoned acquisitions, also may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings.. 17. Restructuring activities may result in business disruptions and may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits anticipated. Further, the benefits may be realized later than expected and the cost of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, we may need to undertake additional cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our cost reduction and restructuring efforts prove ineffective, and our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans as well as our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Nasdaq may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors' ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions.. Our securities are listed on Nasdaq, a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on Nasdaq in the future. Nasdaq requires us to meet certain financial, public float, bid price and liquidity standards on an ongoing basis in order to continue the listing of our common stock.  For example, Nasdaq may send a notice of listing deficiency if a listed company's bid price falls below $1.00 per share for a period of thirty consecutive business days.  If we fail to meet any of the continuing listing requirements, our common stock may be subject to delisting.. If Nasdaq delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including:. • an event of default would occur under our note purchase agreement with Hale Capital Partners and CIDM LendCo, LLC;. • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities;. • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities;. • a determination that our ordinary shares are \"penny stock\" which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares;. • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and. • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future.. Our sales cycles often require significant time, effort and investment and are subject to risks beyond our control. As a result, our sales and revenue are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from period to period, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly.. Our products are technologically complex and are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to the business of our customers. Prospective customers generally must make a significant commitment of resources to test and evaluate our products and to integrate them into larger systems. As a result, our sales process is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design and testing of new communications equipment. The sales cycles of our products to new customers are approximately six to twelve months after a design win, depending on the type of customer and complexity of the product. This time period may be further extended because of internal testing, field trials and requests for the addition or customization of features. This delays the time until we realize revenue and results in significant investment of resources in attempting to make sales.. Long sales cycles also subject us to risks not usually encountered in a short sales span, including customers' budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews and cancellation. In addition, orders expected in one quarter could shift to another because of the timing of customers' procurement decisions. The time required to implement our products can vary significantly with the needs of our customers and generally exceeds several months; larger implementations can take multiple calendar quarters. This complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our revenues.. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products may have an adverse effect on our ability to compete.. 18. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, industry migration to the private telecom cloud, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. Similarly, if there are changes to technology requirements, it may render our products and technologies uncompetitive. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful marketing and R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may not be able to successfully develop and market these new products, the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers, and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect the demand for our products. These types of events may have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our profitability and financial condition, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin, reducing our profitability and/or requiring us to recognize and record impairments of our assets.. There are a number of trends and factors affecting our markets, including economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia, which are beyond our control. These trends and factors may result in increasing upward pressure on the costs of products and an overall reduction in demand.. There are trends and factors affecting our markets and our sources of supply that are beyond our control and may negatively affect our cost of sales. Such trends and factors include: adverse changes in the cost of raw commodities and increasing freight, energy, and labor costs in developing regions such as China and India. Our business strategy has been to provide customers with faster time-to-market and greater value solutions in order to help them compete in an industry that generally faces downward pricing pressure. In addition, our competitors have in the past lowered, and may again in the future, lower prices in order to increase their market share, which would ultimately reduce the price we may realize from our customers. If we are unable to realize prices that allow us to continue to compete on this basis of performance, our profit margin, market share, and overall financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.. Some of the products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us incorporate open source software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of open source licenses could negatively affect our business.. The products, services or technologies we acquire, license, provide or develop may incorporate or use open source software. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid unintended consequences, such as reciprocal license grants, patent retaliation clauses, and the requirement to license our products at no cost. Nevertheless, we may be subject to unanticipated obligations regarding our products which incorporate open source software.. Additionally, the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide, export or distribute our services.. Competition in the market for enabling software and systems is intense, and if we lose market share, our revenues and profitability may deteriorate.. The enabling software and systems market is growing and attracting new non-traditional competitors. These non-traditional competitors include contract manufacturers that provide design services and Asia-based original design manufacturers.. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have a number of significant advantages over us, including:. • a longer operating history;. • greater name recognition and marketing power;. • preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customers;. • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements;. • broader product and service offerings to provide more complete and valued solutions; and. • lower cost structures which, among other things, could include different accounting principles relative to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\").. Furthermore, existing or potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share.. 19. As a result of increased competition, we may encounter significant pricing pressures and/or suffer losses in market share. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in the number of customers, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, many of the industries we serve, such as the communications industry, are encountering market consolidation, or are likely to encounter consolidation in the near future, which could result in increased pricing pressure and additional competition thus weakening our position or causing delays in new design wins and their associated production.. We have incurred, and may incur in the future, restructuring and other charges, the amounts of which are difficult to accurately predict.. From time to time, we have sought to optimize our operational capabilities and efficiencies and focus our efforts and expertise through business restructurings. In the future we may decide to engage in discrete restructurings of our operations if business or economic conditions warrant. Possible adverse consequences related to such actions may include various charges for such items as idle capacity, disposition costs, severance costs, loss of propriety information and in-house knowledge. We may be unsuccessful in any of our current or future efforts to restructure our business, which may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our international operations expose us to additional political, economic and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States.. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, as measured by delivery destination, we derived 33.8%, 21.2% and 17.0% of our revenues from EMEA and 21.2%, 17.7% and 38.3% from Asia Pacific. In 2017, our manufacturing for legacy embedded products is fully outsourced with one contract manufacturing partner located in Asia and other certain third party hardware providers from which we purchase complete solutions. In addition, the manufacturing of our DCEngine racks is outsourced to one partner who is located in the U.S. and Europe and two integration partners located in the U.S. We utilize our Asian contract manufacturer's supply chain and operations. As a result, we are subject to worldwide economic and market conditions risks generally associated with global trade such as fluctuating exchange rates, tariff and trade policies, increased protectionism of foreign governments, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest, wars and other acts of terrorism and changes in other economic conditions. These risks, among others, could adversely affect the results of our operations or financial position. Additionally, some of our sales to overseas customers are made under export licenses that must be obtained from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws, trade restrictions resulting from war or terrorism or other trade policies could adversely affect our ability to sell or to manufacture in international markets. Additionally, U.S. federal and state agency restrictions imposed by the Buy American Act or the Trade Agreement Act may apply to our products manufactured outside the United States. Furthermore, revenues from outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including the general economic and political conditions in each country. As a result of tightening credit markets, our customers and suppliers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair our customers' ability to make timely payments to us and could cause key suppliers to delay shipments and face serious risks of insolvency. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to endure costly litigation.. We are a technology dependent company, and our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, know-how and rapid time to market to protect our intellectual property. At the same time, our products are complex and are often not patentable in their entirety. We also license intellectual property from third parties and rely on those parties to maintain and protect their technology. We cannot be certain that our actions will protect our proprietary rights. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, or if we are unable to continue to obtain or maintain licenses for protected technology from third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, some of our products are now designed, manufactured and sold outside of the United States. Despite the precautions we take to protect our intellectual property, this international exposure may reduce or limit protection of our intellectual property, which is more prone to design piracy outside of the United States.. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our. 20. resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may have additional tax liabilities.. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities globally. Our tax expense may be impacted if our intercompany transactions, which are required to be computed on an arm's-length basis, are challenged and successfully disputed by the tax authorities. Also, our tax expense may be impacted depending on the applicability of withholding taxes on software licenses and related intercompany transactions in certain jurisdictions. In addition, our ability to offset potential future profits in the U.S. with existing net operating losses may be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code dependent upon future changes in the shareholders of our common stock. In determining the adequacy of income taxes, we assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes that could result if our tax positions were challenged by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other tax authorities. The tax authorities in the U.S. and other countries where we do business regularly may examine our income and other tax returns. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the IRS or other tax authorities assess additional taxes as a result of examinations, we may be required to record charges to operations that could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.. Our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting do not guarantee the absence of error or fraud.. We do not expect that disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially adversely impact us.. Increased IT security requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime and cyber- attacks could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data.. Increased global IT security requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime and cyber-attacks pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, and solutions remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. We also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. Oregon corporate law, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us even if the change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders.. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions:. • authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,663,952 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without prior shareholder approval, which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock;. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings;. • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; and. • limit the ability of shareholders to take action by written consent, thereby effectively requiring all common shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our common shareholders.. 21. In addition, if our common stock is acquired in specified transactions deemed to constitute \"control share acquisitions,\" provisions of Oregon law condition the voting rights that would otherwise be associated with those common shares upon approval by our shareholders (excluding, among other things, the acquirer in any such transaction). Provisions of Oregon law also restrict, subject to specified exceptions, the ability of a person owning 15% or more of our common stock to enter into any \"business combination transaction\" with us.. The foregoing provisions of Oregon law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public markets could depress the market price of our common stock, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock.. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, and the value of your investment could decline.. Technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following:. • announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;. • rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time;. • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in our industry;. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our shares or the size of our public float;. • failure of financial analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any analysts who follow our company or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of our investors;. • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those. • projections;. • actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations;. • litigation or investigations involving us, our industry, or both;. • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or our products, or third-party proprietary rights;. • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. • changes in our senior management or our board of directors;. • general economic conditions and trends;. • major catastrophic events;. • sales of large blocks of our common stock; or. • departures of key personnel.. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, results of operations or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Any future securities litigation, including any related to shareholder derivative litigation, could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If financial or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. 22. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us, our business, our competitors' business or our industry. We do not control these analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. In recent years, the number of analysts providing coverage has declined. We may not maintain coverage of analysts that currently publish reports regarding our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issues an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock price, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We could be negatively affected as a result of a future proxy contest and the actions of activist shareholders.. If a proxy contest with respect to election of our directors is initiated in the future, or if other activist shareholder activities occur, our business could be adversely affected because:. • responding to a proxy contest and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees;. • perceived uncertainties as to our future direction caused by activist activities may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners; and. • if individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plans.. We have experienced net losses in recent periods and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. If we cannot achieve or maintain profitability, our financial performance will be harmed and our business may suffer.. We experienced net losses of $52.6 million, $10.3 million, and $14.7 million for fiscal year 2017, 2016 and 2015. As of December 31, 2017, our accumulated deficit was $336.2 million. These losses have resulted principally from lower sales compared to costs incurred in our research and development programs and sales and marketing programs. We may incur operating losses for at least the foreseeable future as a result of the expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business. We may also increase our research and development expenses based on projections of revenue growth.. Our ability to attain profitability in the future will be affected by, among other things, our ability to execute on our business strategy, the continued acceptance of our products, the timing and size of customer orders, the average sales prices of our products, the costs of our products, and the extent to which we invest in our sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative resources. If we are unable to attain profitability, our business would be harmed and our stock price could decline. Further, our recent operating performance, combined with declines in our stock price, may impact our ability to retain existing and attract new customers.. Our existing financing arrangements may cause significant risks to our shareholders and may impact our ability to pursue certain transactions and operate our business.. On January 3, 2018, we incurred $17.0 million of indebtedness under a note purchase agreement (the \"Note Purchase Agreement\") with, among others, HCP-FVG, LLC, an affiliate of Hale Capital Partners LP. We also entered into a loan and security agreement (the \"ABL Credit Agreement,\" and together with the Note Purchase Agreement, the \"Credit Facilities\") with Marquette Business Credit, LLC that provides for a revolving credit facility that provides financing of up to $20.0 million, with a $1.5 million sub-limit for letters of credit.. In connection with the Credit Facilities, we have agreed to significant covenants, including restrictions on our ability to incur future indebtedness, and customary events of default, including failure to pay amounts due, breaches of covenants and warranties, material adverse effect events, certain cross defaults and judgments and insolvency. The Credit Facilities also require us to maintain certain financial covenants, including maintaining a minimum Coverage Ratio and Total Liquidity (each as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement) and a minimum Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined in the ABL Credit Agreement), maintaining the amount of negative cumulative cash flow from operations below an agreed threshold, maintaining certain minimum levels of revenue, not exceeding a maximum long-term deferred revenue threshold, not exceeding maximum capital expenditures in any fiscal year and not exceeding certain thresholds for Cash Loss After Debt Service (as defined in the ABL Credit Agreement). A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions of our debt instruments, including any failure to make a payment when required would generally result in events of default under such instruments, which could permit acceleration of such indebtedness and could result in material adverse effect events on us. If such indebtedness is accelerated, it would generally also constitute an event of default under our other outstanding indebtedness, permitting acceleration of such other outstanding indebtedness. Any required repayment of our indebtedness as a result of acceleration or. 23. otherwise would lower our current cash on hand such that we would not have those funds available for use in our business or for payment of other outstanding indebtedness, or if we do not then have sufficient cash available, potentially force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.. We will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances and other general corporate requirements. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness when payment is due, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the instruments relating to the indebtedness, seek to refinance all or a portion of the indebtedness or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully renegotiate such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Any debt financing that is available could cause us to incur substantial costs and subject us to covenants that significantly restrict our ability to conduct our business. If we seek to complete additional equity financings, the interests of existing equity holders may be diluted.. In addition, the covenants in our debt agreements materially limit our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to incur indebtedness, pay dividends, make certain investments and other payments, undertake certain mergers and consolidations and encumber and dispose of assets. These restrictions may also limit our flexibility in responding to business opportunities, competitive developments and adverse economic or industry conditions.. Furthermore, the warrants issued in connection with the Credit Facilities contain anti-dilution price adjustment provisions, which may be triggered by future issuances of equity or equity-linked instruments in financing transactions. If such adjustment provisions are triggered, the conversion price of such warrants will decrease and the number of shares issuable upon conversion of such warrants will correspondingly increase. In such event, existing shareholders will be further diluted and the effective issuance price of such equity or equity-linked instruments will be reduced, which may harm our ability to engage in future financing transactions to fund our business.. In addition, we have granted the lenders a first-priority lien against substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, subject to specified exceptions. Failure to comply with the operating restrictions or financial covenants in the Credit Facilities could result in a default which could cause the lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and exercise their lien on substantially all of our assets.. We have a substantial level of indebtedness and future obligations relative to our cash position.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $8.1 million of cash and cash equivalents which consisted of $6.7 million held domestically and $1.4 million held by foreign subsidiaries, and we had a $16.0 million outstanding balance on our line of credit.  In addition, we have various other short-term obligations which will require use of our cash to satisfy. This level of debt and our ability to repay or refinance this debt prior to maturity may have negative consequences to our business, including:. • increasing the difficulty of our ability to make payments on our outstanding debt;. • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions;. • limiting our ability to pursue our growth strategy;. • limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; and. • placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and may be better able to use their cash flow to fund competitive responses to changing industry, market or economic conditions.. We may also be unable to borrow funds as a result of an inability of financial institutions to lend due to restrictive lending policies and/or institutional liquidity concerns.. If we experience a decline in revenues, we may have difficulty paying amounts due on our indebtedness. Any default under our indebtedness may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.. As part of our efforts to reduce our liquidity risk, subsequent to December 31, 2017, we completed a new financing arrangement. Refer to Note 19 - Subsequent Events, whereby on January 3, 2018, we extinguished the aforementioned Credit Agreement and entered into a new credit agreement with Marquette Business Credit, LLC and a new Note Purchase Agreement, increasing our overall liquidity.. 24"
