[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS PARTICULAR TO OUR BUSINESS. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such a case, you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The future trading price of shares of our common stock will be affected by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions.. Risks Related to our Business. We need to maintain and expand our existing strategic operating partner network to increase revenues.. We sell our services through Company-owned locations operating under the Radiant and Wheels brands and through a network of independently-owned strategic operating partners throughout North America operating under the Airgroup, Adcom, DBA and Service by Air brands. For the years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, approximately 59% and 62% of our consolidated net revenues were derived through our strategic operating partners. We believe our strategic operating partners will remain a critical component to our success for the foreseeable future. Although the terms of our strategic operating partner agreements vary widely, they generally cover the manner and amount of payments, the services to be performed, the length of the contract, and provide us with certain protections such as strategic operating partner-funded reserves against potential bad debts, indemnification obligations, and in certain instances include a personal guaranty of the independent owner(s) of the strategic operating partners. Additionally, certain of our strategic operating partner agreements may impose restrictions on us, including our ability to provide services in certain territories or to certain customers and our ability to hire employees of our strategic operating partners. Certain of our strategic operating partner agreements are for defined terms, while others are subject to \"evergreen\" terms, or contain automatic renewal provisions or are at-will on a month-to-month basis. Regardless of stated term, in most situations the agreements can be terminated by the strategic operating partner with prior notice. As certain agreements expire, there can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into new agreements that provide for the same terms and economics as those previously agreed upon, if at all. Thus, we are subject to the risk of strategic operating partner terminations and the failure or refusal of certain of our strategic operating partners to renew their existing agreements. This risk is often accentuated upon the acquisition of a new agency-based network. We have a number of customers and strategic operating partner locations with significant volume and stature, however, no single customer or strategic operating partner location represents more than 5% of our consolidated net revenues. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain and expand our existing strategic operating partner relationships or enter into new strategic operating partner relationships, or that new or renewed strategic operating partner relationships will be available on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to maintain and expand our existing strategic operating partner relationships, renew existing strategic operating partner relationships, or enter into new strategic operating partner relationships, we may lose customers, customer introductions and co-marketing benefits, and our operating results may be negatively impacted. We may also be restricted from growing in certain territories or with certain customers, except through our strategic operating partners.. 8. If our strategic operating partners fail to maintain adequate reserves against unpaid customer invoices, or if we are unable to offset against commissions earned and payable by us to our strategic operating partners for unpaid customer invoices, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue pursuant to agreements with strategic operating partners operating under our various brands. Under these agreements, each individual strategic operating partner is responsible for some or all of the collection of amounts due from customers being serviced by such strategic operating partner. Certain of our strategic operating partners are required to maintain a security deposit with us to be used to fund those customer accounts ultimately not collected by us. We charge each of the strategic operating partners for any accounts receivable aged beyond 90 days. If the strategic operating partner's deposit with us has been depleted, an amount will be owed to us by our strategic operating partner. Based on legacy contracts assumed upon acquisition, some strategic operating partners are not required to maintain a security deposit, however, they are still responsible for deficits and their strategic operating partner agreements provide that we may withhold all or a portion of future commissions payable to the strategic operating partner in satisfaction of any deficit. As of June 30, 2018, approximately $1.4 million was owed to us by our strategic operating partners, of which, approximately $.8 million was owed to us by our former British Columbia operating partner who recently closed their freight-forwarding operations, and from whom we have recently secured a default judgment and are in the process of collection proceedings. However, to the extent any of these strategic operating partners cease operations or are otherwise unable to replenish these deficit accounts, we would be at risk of loss for any such amount. We include such amounts in the allowance for doubtful accounts when it is probable the amounts owed will not be collected.. Failure to comply with obligations as an \"indirect air carrier\" could result in penalties and fines and limit our ability to ship freight.. We are regulated, among other things, as \"indirect air carriers\" by the Transportation Security Administration of the Department of Homeland Security. These agencies provide requirements, guidance and, in some cases, administer licensing requirements and processes applicable to the freight forwarding industry. We monitor our compliance and the compliance of our subsidiaries with such agency requirements. We rely on our strategic operating partners to monitor their own compliance, except when we are notified of a violation, when we may become involved. Failure to comply with these requirements, policies and procedures could result in penalties and fines. To date, a limited number of our strategic operating partners have been out of compliance with the \"indirect air carrier\" regulations, resulting in fines to us, which we attempt to collect from the strategic operating partners. There is no assurance that additional violations will not take place, which could result in penalties or fines or, in the extreme case, limits on our ability to ship freight.. Our business will be seriously harmed if we fail to develop, implement, maintain, upgrade, enhance, protect and integrate information technology systems.. We rely heavily on our information technology systems to efficiently run our business, and they are a key component of our growth strategy. To keep pace with changing technologies and customer demands, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our technology platform in response to these trends, which may lead to significant ongoing software development or licensing costs. We may be unable to accurately determine the needs of our customers and strategic operating partners and the trends in the transportation services industry, or to design or license and implement the appropriate features and functionality of our technology platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenues. Despite testing, external and internal risks, such as malware, insecure coding, \"Acts of God,\" data leakage and human error pose a direct threat to our information technology systems and operations. We may also be subject to cybersecurity attacks and other intentional hacking. Any failure to identify and address such defects or errors or prevent a cyber-attack could result in service interruptions, operational difficulties, loss of revenues or market share, liability to customers or others, diversion of resources, injury to our reputation and increased service and maintenance costs. Addressing such issues could prove to be impossible or very costly and responding to resulting claims or liability could similarly involve substantial cost. We must maintain and enhance the reliability and speed of our information technology systems to remain competitive and effectively handle higher volumes of freight through our network and the various service modes we offer. If our information technology systems are unable to manage additional volume for our operations as our business grows, or if such systems are not suited to manage the various service modes we offer or businesses we acquire, our service levels and operating efficiency could decline. We expect customers and strategic operating partners to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information systems from their supply chain services providers. If we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel to implement, protect and maintain our information technology systems or if we fail to upgrade our systems to meet our customers' and strategic operating partners' demands, our business and results of operations could be seriously harmed. This could result in a loss of customers or a decline in the volume of freight we receive from customers.. In addition, acquired companies will need to be integrated with our information technology systems, which may cause additional training or licensing cost, along with potential delays and disruption. In such event, our revenue, financial results and ability to operate profitably could be negatively impacted. The challenges associated with integration of our acquisitions may increase these risks.. 9. Our management information and financial reporting systems are spread across diverse platforms and geographies.. The growth of our business through acquisitions has resulted in our reliance on the accounting, business information, and other computer systems of these acquired entities to capture and transmit information concerning customer orders, carrier payment, payroll, and other critical business data. We are in the initial stages of migrating our various legacy operating and accounting systems to a new singular SAP-based system. As long as an acquired business remains on another information technology system, we face additional manual calculations, training costs, delays, and an increased possibility of inaccuracies in the data we use to manage our business and report our financial results. Any delay in compiling, assessing, and reporting information could adversely impact our business, our ability to timely react to changes in volumes, prices, or other trends, or to take actions to comply with financial covenants, all of which could negatively impact our stock price.. We depend on third-party carriers to transport our customers' cargo.. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies, major U.S. railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen for the movement of our customers' cargo. Consequently, our ability to provide services for our customers could be adversely impacted by, among other things: shortages in available cargo capacity; changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as scheduling, pricing, payment terms and frequency of service, increases in the cost of fuel, taxes and labor, changes in the financial stability or operating capabilities of carriers, and other factors not within our control. Reductions in airfreight or ocean freight capacity could negatively impact our yields. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, any determination that our third-party carriers have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs.. Our profitability depends on our ability to effectively manage our cost structure as we grow the business.. We have increased, and intend to further increase, our revenue through organic growth, adding strategic operating partners, and acquisitions. We believe that certain of our costs, such as those related to information technology, physical locations, senior management, and sales and general operations, and excluding non-cash amortization, should grow more slowly than our net revenue, which would lead to improved cash flow margins over time. Historically, our cash flow margins have fluctuated, and have not always improved as we have grown. To the extent we fail to manage our costs, including purchased transportation, strategic operating partner commissions, personnel expenses, and sales and general expenses, our profitability may not improve or may decrease. This could adversely impact our business, results of operation, financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock.. Our business is subject to seasonal trends.. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. Our first and fourth fiscal quarters are traditionally weaker compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. As a result, our quarterly operating results are likely to continue to fluctuate. This trend is dependent on numerous factors, including the markets in which we operate, holiday seasons, climate, economic conditions and numerous other factors. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand which can sometimes be difficult to predict or are based on just-in-time production schedules. Therefore, our revenue is, to a large degree, affected by factors that are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors.. Comparisons of our operating results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance.. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and likely will continue to fluctuate in the future because of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to economic trends and consumer demand that can be difficult to predict, or are based on just-in-time production schedules. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results vary significantly, comparisons of our results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Additionally, the timing of acquisitions, as well as the revenue and expenses of the acquired operations, the transaction expenses, amortization of intangible assets, and interest expense associated with acquisitions can make our operating results from period to period difficult to compare. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our historical operating patterns will continue in future periods or that comparisons to prior periods will be meaningful.. 10. Economic recessions and other factors that reduce freight volumes could have a material adverse impact on our business.. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recession, downturns in business cycles of our customers, interest rate fluctuations and other economic factors beyond our control. Deterioration in the economic environment subjects our business to various risks that may have a material impact on our operating results and cause us to not reach our long-term growth goals, and which may include the following:. •  a reduction in overall freight volumes in the marketplace reduces our opportunities for growth. In addition, if a downturn in our customers' business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, our operating results could be adversely affected;. •  some of our customers may face economic difficulties and may not be able to pay us, and some may go out of business. In addition, some customers may not pay us as quickly as they have in the past, causing our working capital needs to increase;. •  a significant number of our transportation providers may go out of business and we may be unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers; and. •  we may not be able to appropriately adjust our expenses to changing market demands. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it is more difficult to match our staffing level to our business needs. In addition, we have other primarily variable expenses that are fixed for a period of time, and we may not be able to adequately adjust them in a period of rapid change in market demand.. Higher carrier prices may result in decreased net revenue margin.. Carriers can be expected to charge higher prices if market conditions warrant, or to cover higher operating expenses. Our net revenues and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to increase our pricing to our customers. Increased demand for truckload services and pending changes in regulations may reduce available capacity and increase carrier pricing.. We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, freight brokerage, logistics and supply chain management industry.. The freight forwarding, freight brokerage, logistics and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Customers increasingly are turning to competitive bidding processes, in which they solicit bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced profit margins, or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business. There are many factors that could impair our profitability, including the following:. •  competition with other transportation services companies, some of which have a broader coverage network, a wider range of services, more fully developed information technology systems and greater capital resources than we do;. •  reduction by our competitors of their rates to gain business, especially during times of declining growth rates in the economy, which reductions may limit our ability to maintain or increase rates, maintain our operating margins or maintain significant growth in our business;. •  shift in the business of shippers to asset-based trucking companies that also offer brokerage services in order to secure access to those companies' trucking capacity, particularly in times of tight industry-wide capacity;. •  solicitation by shippers of bids from multiple transportation providers for their shipping needs and the resulting depression of freight rates or loss of business to competitors; and. •  establishment by our competitors of cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address shipper needs.. Our industry is consolidating and if we cannot gain sufficient market presence, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry.. There currently is a trend within our industry towards consolidation of the niche players into larger companies that are attempting to increase global operations through the acquisition of regional and local freight forwarders, brokers, and other freight logistics providers. If we cannot gain sufficient market presence or otherwise establish a successful strategy in our industry, we may not be able to compete successfully against larger companies in our industry.. 11. If we are not able to limit our liability for customers' claims for loss or damage to their goods through contract terms and limit our exposure through the purchase of insurance, we could be required to pay large amounts to our customers as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. In our freight forwarding operations, we have liability under law to our customers for loss or damage to their goods. We attempt to limit our exposure through release limits, indemnification by the air, ocean, and ground carriers that transport the freight, and insurance. Moreover, because a freight forwarder relationship to an airline or ocean carrier is that of a shipper to a carrier, the airline or ocean carrier generally assumes the same responsibility to us as we assume to our customers. When we act in the capacity of an authorized agent for an air or ocean carrier, the carrier, rather than us, assumes liability for the safe delivery of the customer's cargo to its ultimate destination, unless due to our own errors and omissions. However, these efforts may prove unsuccessful and we may be liable for loss and damage to the goods.. In addition to legal liability, from time to time customers exert economic pressure when the underlying carrier fails to cover the costs of loss or damage. We have, from time to time, made payments to our customers for claims related to our services and may make such payments in the future. Should we experience an increase in the number or size of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our results could be adversely affected.. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for such claims or that the maximum amounts for which we are liable in connection with our services will not change in the future or exceed our insurance levels. As with every insurance policy, there are limits, exclusions and deductibles that apply, and we could be subject to claims for which insurance coverage may be inadequate or even disputed and such claims could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs could reduce our profitability.. We may be subject to claims arising from transportation of freight by the carriers with which we contract.. We use the services of thousands of transportation companies in connection with our transportation operations. From time to time, the drivers employed and engaged by the carriers we contract with are involved in accidents which may result in death or serious personal injuries. The resulting types and/or amounts of damages may be excluded from or exceed the amount of insurance coverage maintained by the contracted carrier. Although these drivers are not our employees and all of these drivers are employees, owner-operators, or independent contractors working for carriers, from time to time, claims may be asserted against us for their actions, or for our actions in retaining them. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance at all. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims or workers' compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could reduce our profitability. Our involvement in the transportation of certain goods, including but not limited to hazardous materials, could also increase our exposure in the event one of our contracted carriers is involved in an accident resulting in injuries or contamination.. We are subject to various claims and lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures.. Our business exposes us to claims and litigation related to damage to cargo, labor and employment practices (including wage-and-hour, employment classification of independent contractor drivers, sales representatives, brokerage agents and other individuals, and other federal and state claims), personal injury, property damage, business practices, environmental liability and other matters. We carry insurance to cover most exposures, subject to specific coverage exceptions, aggregate limits, and self-insured retentions that we negotiate from time to time. However, not all claims are covered, and there can be no assurance that our coverage limits will be adequate to cover all amounts in dispute. For example, we are currently defending an employment-based claim with a wage and hour component that would not be covered by our insurance (description included in this report). We are unable to determine the likelihood of a successful defense or the ultimate amount of any damages that would be awarded. To the extent we experience claims that are uninsured, exceed our coverage limits, or involve significant aggregate use of our self-insured retention amounts, the expenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the quarter in which the amounts are accrued. In addition, in the future, we may be subject to higher insurance premiums or increase our self-insured retention amounts, which could increase our overall costs or the volatility of claims expense.. Our failure to comply with, or the costs of complying with, government regulation could negatively affect our results of operation.. Our business is subject to evolving, complex and increasing regulation by national and international sources. Regulatory changes could affect the economics of our industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the costs of providing, services to customers. Future regulation and our failure to comply with any applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 12. If we are unable to maintain our brand images and corporate reputation, our business may suffer.. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain the image of the Radiant, Wheels, Airgroup, Adcom, DBA and Service by Air brands and our reputation for providing excellent service to our customers. Service quality issues, actual or perceived, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of our brand and may cause customers to use other freight-forwarding companies. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, and could require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands.. Issues related to the intellectual property rights on which our business depends, whether related to our failure to enforce our own rights or infringement claims brought by others, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We use both internally developed and purchased technology in conducting our business. Whether internally developed or purchased, it is possible that the user of these technologies could be claimed to infringe upon or violate the intellectual property rights of third-parties. In the event that a claim is made against us by a third-party for the infringement of intellectual property rights, any settlement or adverse judgment against us either in the form of increased costs of licensing or a cease and desist order in using the technology could have an adverse effect on us and our results of operations.. We also rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including copyrights, trademarks, domain names, trade secrets, intellectual property licenses and other contractual rights, to establish and protect our intellectual property and technology. Any of our owned or licensed intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated; our trade secrets and other confidential information could be disclosed in an unauthorized manner to third-parties or we may fail to secure the rights to intellectual property developed by our employees, contractors and others. Given our international operations, we seek to register our trademarks and other intellectual property domestically and internationally. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect trademarks to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be time consuming and costly, distract management's attention and resources and ultimately be unsuccessful. Moreover, our failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could adversely affect our market positions and business opportunities.. Our failure to obtain, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not successfully manage our growth.. We intend to grow rapidly and substantially, including by expanding our internal resources, by making acquisitions and entering into new markets. We may experience difficulties and higher-than-expected expenses in executing this strategy as a result of unfamiliarity with new markets, and change in revenue and business models.. Our growth will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We will need to continually improve existing procedures and controls as well as implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, and procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our working capital needs will increase substantially as our operations grow. Failure to manage growth effectively, or obtain necessary working capital, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, stock price and financial condition.. Our loans and credit facilities contain financial covenants that may limit current availability and impose ongoing operational limitations and risk of compliance.. We currently maintain (i) a USD$75.0 million revolving credit facility (the \"Senior Credit Facility\") with Bank of America, N.A., on its own behalf and as agent to the other lenders named therein, currently consisting of the Bank of Montreal (as the initial member of the syndicate under such loan), pursuant to an Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, as amended, (ii) a CAD$29.0 million senior secured Canadian term loan from Integrated Private Debt Fund IV LP (\"IPD IV\") pursuant to a CAD$29,000,000 Credit Facilities Loan Agreement (the \"IPD IV Loan Agreement\"), and (iii) a CAD$10.0 million senior secured Canadian term loan from Integrated Private Debt Fund V LP (\"IPD V\") pursuant to a CAD$10,000,000 Credit Facilities Loan Agreement (the \"IPD V Loan Agreement\" and, together with the IPD IV Loan Agreement, the \"IPD Loan Agreements\"). Repayment of the foregoing credit facilities is secured by our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, including, without limitation, all of the capital stock of our subsidiaries.. 13. Under the terms of the foregoing credit facilities, we are required to comply with certain financial covenants, depending on the type of loan facility and whether certain conditions are triggered. In addition, under the IPD Loan Agreements, we are required to maintain (i) a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0, (ii) a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 to 1.0 and (iii) a senior debt to EBITDA ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0.. Our compliance with the financial covenants of our credit facilities is particularly important given the materiality of such facilities to our day-to-day operations and overall acquisition strategy. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to secure a waiver or other relief, our financial condition would be materially weakened and our ability to fund day-to-day operations would be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, we intend to employ EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA as management tools to measure our historical financial performance and as a benchmark for future financial flexibility.. Under our credit facilities, we are prohibited from declaring and paying dividends unless: (i) there are no existing events of default under the credit facility or an event of default would not be caused by the declaration or payment of such dividend, and (ii) upon giving pro forma effect to the dividend, (1) the amount available under the credit facility after the pro forma effect of such dividend is equal to the greater of 15% of the U.S. borrowing base under the Senior Credit Facility or $15.0 million, and (2) U.S. availability is at least $10.0 million.. We operate with a significant amount of indebtedness, which is secured by substantially all of our assets and subject to variable interest rates and restrictive covenants.. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, such as:. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness with our lenders, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future operating capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. •  expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as a substantial portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;. •  require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so;. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. •  restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, buying assets or pursuing business opportunities; and. •  limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds.. In addition, violating covenants in these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consequences if the violations are not cured or waived could include substantially increasing our cost of borrowing, restricting our future operations, termination of our lenders' commitments to supply us with further funds, cross defaults to other obligations, or acceleration of our obligations. If some or all of our obligations are accelerated, we may not be able to fully repay them.. Dependence on key personnel.. For the foreseeable future, our success will depend largely on the continued services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bohn H. Crain, as well as certain of our other key executives and executives of our acquired businesses because of their collective industry knowledge, marketing skills and relationships with vendors, customers and strategic operating partners. Should any of these individuals leave us, we could have difficulty replacing them with qualified individuals and it could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies.. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see \"Critical Accounting Policies\" in Part II, Item 7 of this report). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations.. 14. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence, anti-terrorism measures or war may affect our operations and our profitability.. As a result of the potential for terrorist attacks, federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and continue to follow various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Such measures may reduce the productivity of our independent contractors and transportation providers or increase the costs associated with their operations, which we could be forced to bear. For example, security measures imposed at bridges, tunnels, border crossings and other points on key trucking routes may cause delays and increase the non-driving time of our independent contractors and transportation providers, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We also have higher costs due to mandated security screening of air cargo traveling on passenger airlines and ocean freight. War, risk of war, or a terrorist attack also may have an adverse effect on the economy. A decline in economic activity could adversely affect our revenues or restrict our future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war also could impact our ability to raise capital. In addition, the insurance premiums charged for some or all of the coverage currently maintained by us could increase dramatically or such coverage could be unavailable in the future.. We intend to continue growing our international operations and will become increasingly subject to variations in the international trade market.. We provide services to customers engaged in international commerce, and intend to grow our international business in the coming years. For the years ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, international transportation revenue accounted for 36% and 35% of our net revenue, respectively. International transportation revenue is defined as any shipment with an initiation or destination point outside of the United States. All factors that affect international trade have the potential to expand or contract our international business and impact our operating results. For example, international trade is influenced by, among other things:. •  currency exchange rates and currency control regulations;. •  interest rate fluctuations;. •  changes in governmental policies, such as taxation, quota restrictions, tariffs, other forms of trade barriers and/or restrictions and trade accords;. •  changes in and application of international and domestic customs, trade and security regulations;. •  wars, strikes, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts, such as the conflict that has led to the imposition of economic sanctions by the United States and the European Union against Russia;. •  natural disasters and pandemics;. •  changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own;. •  changes in availability of credit;. •  economic conditions in other countries and regions;. •  changes in supply chain design including those resulting from near shoring, widening and deepening of canals, and port congestion or disruption;. •  changes in the price and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum-related products; and. •  increased global concerns regarding environmental sustainability.. If any of the foregoing factors have a negative effect on the international trade market, we could suffer a decrease in our international business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. In connection with our international business, we are subject to certain foreign regulatory requirements, and any failure to comply with these requirements could be detrimental to our business.. We provide services in parts of the world where common business practices could constitute violations of the anticorruption laws, rules, regulations and decrees of the United States, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and of all other countries in which we conduct business; as well as trade control laws, or laws, regulations and Executive Orders imposing embargoes and sanctions; and anti-boycott laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws, rules, regulations and decrees is dependent on our employees, subcontractors, consultants, agents, third-party brokers and customers, whose individual actions could violate these laws, rules, regulations and decrees. Failure to comply could result in substantial penalties, damages to our reputation and restrictions on our ability to conduct business. In addition, any investigation or litigation related to such violations may require significant management time and could cause us to incur extensive legal and related costs, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and operating cash flows.. 15. International operations expose us to currency exchange risk and we cannot predict the effect of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business and operating results.. We generate a significant portion of revenues from our international operations, including a substantial amount in Canada. During the year ended June 30, 2018, approximately 36% of our net revenues were generated from international operations. Our international operations are sensitive to currency exchange risks. We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies, as well as intercompany transactions. Significant changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies in which we transact business and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, we have not entered into any hedging activities, and, to the extent that we continue not to do so in the future, we may be vulnerable to the effects of currency exchange-rate fluctuations.. In addition, our international operations also expose us to currency fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our foreign operations to the U.S. dollar. There can be no guarantee that the effect of currency fluctuations will not be material in the future.. Ineffective internal controls could impact our business and operating results as well as our public reporting and stock price.. We have grown rapidly and face additional challenges of disparate systems and geographically dispersed management. Our internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure are strained at times due to acquisitions and other corporate development activities.. Our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.. Risks Related to our Acquisition Strategy. There is a scarcity of and competition for acquisition opportunities.. There are a limited number of operating companies available for acquisition that we deem to be desirable targets. In addition, there is a very high level of competition among companies seeking to acquire these operating companies. We are and will continue to be a very minor participant in the business of seeking acquisitions of these types of companies. A large number of established and well-financed entities are active in acquiring interests in companies that we may find to be desirable acquisition candidates. Many of these entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than us. Consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating and executing possible acquisitions of these businesses. Even if we are able to successfully compete with these entities, this competition may affect the terms of completed transactions and, as a result, we may pay more or receive less favorable terms than we expected for potential acquisitions. We may not be able to identify operating companies that complement our strategy, and even if we identify a company that complements our strategy, we may be unable to complete an acquisition of such a company for many reasons, including:. •  failure to agree on the terms necessary for a transaction, such as the purchase price;. •  incompatibility between our operational strategies or management philosophies with those of the potential acquiree;. •  competition from other acquirers of operating companies;. •  lack of sufficient capital to acquire a profitable logistics company;. •  unwillingness of a potential acquiree to agree to subordinate any future payment of earn-outs or promissory notes to the payments due to our lenders; and. •  unwillingness of a potential acquiree to work with our management.. Risks related to acquisition financing.. We have a limited amount of financial resources and our ability to make additional acquisitions without securing additional financing from outside sources is limited. In order to continue to pursue our acquisition strategy, we may be required to obtain additional financing. We may obtain such financing through a combination of traditional debt financing or the placement of debt and equity securities. We may finance some portion of our future acquisitions by either issuing equity or by using shares of our common stock for all or a portion of the purchase price for such businesses. In the event that our common stock does not attain or maintain a sufficient market value, or potential acquisition candidates are otherwise unwilling to accept our common stock as part of the purchase price for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to use more of our cash resources, if available, in order to maintain our acquisition. 16. program. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, we will not be able to complete acquisitions and our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional capital through debt or equity financings. The terms of our credit facility require that we obtain the consent of our lenders prior to securing additional debt financing. There could be circumstances in which our ability to obtain additional debt financing could be constrained if we are unable to secure such consent.. Our credit facilities place certain limits on the acquisitions we may make.. Under the terms of our credit facilities, we may be required to obtain the consent of each of our lenders prior to making any additional acquisitions.. We are permitted to make additional acquisitions without the consent of the lenders only if certain conditions are satisfied. These conditions include the following: (i) the absence of an event of default under the Senior Credit Facility, (ii) the acquisition must be consensual; (iii) the company to be acquired must be in the transportation and logistics industry, located in the United States, Canada or certain other approved jurisdictions, and have a positive EBITDA for the 12 month period most recently ended prior to such acquisition, (iv) no debt or liens may be incurred, assumed or result from the acquisition, subject to limited exceptions, (v), the pro forma fixed charge coverage ratio is greater than or equal to 1.1 to 1.0, and (vi) after giving effect for the funding of the acquisition, we must have availability under the Senior Credit Facility of at least the greater of 15% of the U.S.-based borrowing base and Canadian-based borrowing base or $15.0 million, and U.S. availability of at least $10.0 million. In addition, under the IPD Loan Agreements, the aggregate cash consideration shall not exceed $10.0 million for any single transaction and $25.0 million in the aggregate in any fiscal year.. In the event we are not able to satisfy the conditions of our credit facilities in connection with a proposed acquisition, we must either forego the acquisition, obtain the consent of the lenders, or retire the credit facility. This may prevent us from completing acquisitions that we determine are desirable from a business perspective and limit or slow our ability to achieve the critical mass we need to achieve our strategic objectives.. To the extent we make any material acquisitions, our earnings will be adversely affected by non-cash charges relating to the amortization of intangible assets, which may cause our stock price to decline.. Under applicable accounting standards, purchasers are required to allocate the total consideration paid in a business combination to the identified acquired assets and liabilities based on their fair values at the time of acquisition. The excess of the consideration paid to acquire a business over the fair value of the identifiable tangible assets acquired must be allocated among identifiable intangible assets including goodwill. The amount allocated to goodwill is not subject to amortization. However, it is tested at least annually for impairment. The amount allocated to identifiable intangible assets, such as customer relationships and the like, is amortized over the life of these intangible assets. We expect that this will subject us to periodic charges against our earnings to the extent of the amortization incurred for that period. Because our business strategy focuses, in part, on growth through acquisitions, our future earnings will be subject to greater non-cash amortization charges than a company whose earnings are derived solely from organic growth. As a result, we will experience an increase in non-cash charges related to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. Our financial statements will show that our intangible assets are diminishing in value, even if the acquired businesses are increasing (or not diminishing) in value. Because of this discrepancy, we believe our EBITDA, a measure of financial performance that does not conform to generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), provides a meaningful measure of our financial performance. However, the investment community generally measures a public company's performance by its net income. Further, the financial covenants of our credit facility adjust EBITDA to exclude costs related to share-based compensation and other non-cash charges. Thus, we believe that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA provide a meaningful measure of our financial performance. If the investment community elects to place more emphasis on net income, the future price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. We are not obligated to follow any particular criteria or standards for identifying acquisition candidates.. Other than as required under the credit facility, we are not obligated to follow any particular operating, financial, geographic or other criteria in evaluating candidates for potential acquisitions or business combinations. We will determine the purchase price and other terms and conditions of acquisitions. Our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the relevant economic, financial and other information that our management team will use and consider in deciding whether or not to enter into a particular transaction.. 17. We may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to successfully implement our acquisition strategy.. Subject to the restrictions contained under our current credit facilities, we may be required to incur a significant amount of indebtedness in order to complete future acquisitions. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from the operations of acquired businesses to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on the indebtedness, then we will be required to use our capital for such payments. This will restrict our ability to make additional acquisitions. We may also be forced to sell an acquired business in order to satisfy indebtedness. We cannot be certain that we will be able to operate profitably once we incur this indebtedness or that we will be able to generate a sufficient amount of proceeds from the ultimate disposition of such acquired businesses to repay the indebtedness incurred to make these acquisitions.. We may experience difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel and assets of acquired businesses that may disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results.. A core component of our business plan is to acquire businesses and assets in the transportation and logistics industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses into the Company without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. Such acquisitions also involve numerous operational risks, including:. •  difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel;. •  the diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations;. •  the risk of entering new markets;. •  the potential loss of existing or acquired strategic operating partners following an acquisition;. •  the potential loss of key employees following an acquisition and the associated risk of competitive efforts from such departed personnel;. •  possible legal disputes with the acquired company following an acquisition; and. •  the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs.. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute any acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed.. In certain acquisitions, we may recognize non-cash gains or losses on changes in fair value of contingent consideration. We include contingent consideration based on future financial performance as a portion of the purchase price of certain acquisitions. To the extent that an acquired operation underperforms relative to anticipated earnings levels, we are able to set-off certain levels of future unpaid purchase price for such acquired operations. This will result in the recognition of a non-cash gain on the change in fair value of contingent consideration. In the alternative, to the extent an acquired operation outperforms anticipated earnings levels, we will recognize a non-cash expense on the change in fair value of contingent consideration. These non-cash gains and expenses may have a material impact on our financial results, and the impact could be opposite to the underlying results of the acquired operation.. Not every acquisition is structured utilizing contingent consideration. Our 2015 acquisitions of Wheels and SBA and our 2017 acquisition of Lomas were structured without using contingent consideration. We will be unable to reduce the purchase price of these entities if they underperform relative to anticipated earnings levels.. Claims against us or other liabilities we incur relating to any acquisition or business combination may necessitate our seeking claims against the seller for which the seller may not indemnify us or that may exceed the seller's indemnification obligations.. There may be liabilities we assume in any acquisition or business combination that we did not discover or underestimated in the course of performing our due diligence investigation. A seller will normally have indemnification obligations to us under an acquisition or merger agreement, but these obligations will be subject to financial limitations, such as general deductibles and a cap, as well as time limitations. There can be no assurance that our right to indemnification from any seller will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the amount of any undiscovered or underestimated liabilities. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 18. We may face competition from parties who sell us their businesses and from professionals who cease working for us.. In connection with our acquisitions, we generally obtain non-solicitation agreements from the professionals we hire, as well as non-competition agreements from senior managers and professionals. The agreements prohibit such individuals from competing with us during the term of their employment and for a fixed period afterwards and seeking to solicit our employees or clients. In some cases, but not all, we may obtain non-competition or non-solicitation agreements from parties who sell us their business or assets. Certain activities may be carved out of or otherwise may not be prohibited by these arrangements. We cannot assure that one or more of the parties from whom we acquire assets or a business or who do not join us or leave our employment will not compete with us or solicit our employees or clients in the future. Even if ultimately resolved in our favor, any litigation associated with the non-competition or non-solicitation agreements could be time consuming, costly and distract management's focus from locating suitable acquisition candidates and operating our business. Moreover, states and foreign jurisdictions may interpret restrictions on competition narrowly and in favor of employees.. Therefore, certain restrictions on competition or solicitation may be unenforceable. In addition, we may not pursue legal remedies if we determine that preserving cooperation and a professional relationship with the former employee or his clients, or other concerns, outweigh the benefits of any possible legal recourse or the likelihood of success does not justify the costs of pursuing a legal remedy. Such persons, because they have worked for us or a business that we acquire, may be able to compete more effectively with us, or be more successful in soliciting our employees and clients, than unaffiliated third-parties.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for you to resell our common stock at times or at prices you find attractive.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. The current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. Fluctuations may occur in response to the other risk factors listed in this prospectus supplement and for many other reasons, including:. •  actual or anticipated variations in earnings, financial or operating performance or liquidity, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business;. •  our financial performance or the performance of our competitors and similar companies;. •  the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. •  changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  failure to meet securities analysts' quarterly and annual projections;. •  the impact of new federal or state regulations;. •  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. •  the introduction of new services by us or our competitors;. •  the arrival or departure of key personnel;. •  acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors;. •  technological innovations or other trends in our industry;. •  news affecting our customers;. •  operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;. •  regulatory or labor conditions applicable to us, our industry or the industries we serve;. •  market conditions in our industry, the industries we serve, the financial markets and the economy as a whole;. •  changes in our capital structure; and. •  sales of our common stock by us or members of our management team.. In addition, the stock market historically has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock.. 19. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may make it difficult for you to resell shares of our common stock when you want or at attractive prices. In addition, when the market price of a company's common stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the Company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, including settlement costs or awards for legal damages, and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may make a contested takeover more difficult.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (\"DGCL\") could deter a change in our management or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of us, even if such a proposal is favored by a majority of our stockholders. For example, we are subject to the provisions of the DGCL that prohibit a public Delaware corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns 15% or more of such corporation's outstanding voting shares (an \"interested stockholder\") for three years after the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Our certificate of incorporation provides that directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of 75% of our outstanding shares and that amendments to our bylaws require the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of our outstanding shares. Our certificate of incorporation also includes undesignated preferred stock, which may enable our board of directors to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or otherwise. Finally, our bylaws include an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate directors or submit proposals at a stockholders meeting.. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer controls a large portion of our common stock and has substantial control over us, which could limit other stockholders' ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control.. Under applicable SEC rules, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bohn H. Crain, beneficially owns approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock as of June 30, 2018. Accordingly, Mr. Crain can exert substantial influence over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation, or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders. Further, this concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with concentrated stockholders.. Trading in our common stock has been limited.. Although our common stock is traded on the NYSE American, it remains relatively illiquid, or \"thinly traded\", as compared to the volume of trading activity associated with larger companies whose shares trade on the larger national exchanges. Because of this limited liquidity, stockholders may be unable to sell their shares at the prices or volumes they desire. The trading price of our shares may from time to time fluctuate widely. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including events described in the risk factors set forth in this report as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements, general conditions in the industry and the financial markets, and other events or factors. In recent years, broad stock market indices, in general, and smaller capitalization companies, in particular, have experienced substantial price fluctuations. In a volatile market, we may experience wide fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. These fluctuations may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock.. The influx of additional shares of our common stock onto the market may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.. We have completed many acquisitions which often include the issuance of additional shares pursuant to the purchase agreements. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we issued approximately 133,000 unregistered shares of our common stock as part of the purchase price, or associated with the financing of a transaction. In addition, we may issue additional shares in connection with such acquisitions upon the achievement of certain earn-out thresholds or in connection with future acquisitions as part of the purchase consideration. The availability of additional shares for sale to the public under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\") and sale of such shares in public markets could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Such an adverse effect on the market price would make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future at prices we deem appropriate or to use our shares as currency for future acquisitions which will make it more difficult to execute our acquisition strategy.. 20. The issuance of additional shares may result in additional dilution to our existing stockholders.. At any time, we may make private offerings of our securities. We have issued, and may be required to issue, additional shares of common stock or common stock equivalents in payment of the purchase price of businesses we have acquired. This will have the effect of further increasing the number of shares outstanding. In connection with future acquisitions, we may undertake the issuance of more shares of common stock without notice to our then existing stockholders. We may also issue additional shares in order to, among other things, compensate employees or consultants or for other valid business reasons in the discretion of our board of directors, which could result in diluting the interests of our existing stockholders.. The exercise or conversion of our outstanding options, warrants or other convertible securities or any derivative securities we issue in the future will result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our existing stockholders and may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue 100 million shares of common stock. As of September 7, 2018, we had 49,447,208 outstanding shares of common stock. We may in the future issue up to 2,723,879 additional shares of our common stock upon exercise of existing options.. We may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms for those shares without the approval of our stockholders. Any such preferred stock we may issue in the future could rank ahead of our common stock in many ways, including in terms of dividends, liquidation rights, and voting rights.. As we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock, investors in our shares of common stock will not receive any dividend income.. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any dividends that we may pay in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our future earnings, any applicable regulatory considerations, our financial requirements and other similarly unpredictable factors. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is further limited by the terms of our credit facilities and outstanding 9.75% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (\"Series A Preferred Shares\"). Accordingly, investors seeking dividend income should not purchase our common stock.. If we are unable to pay quarterly dividends to the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares, we may be subject to additional penalties and requirements, all of which could have a negative effect on the holders of our common stock.. We are required to pay quarterly dividends on the shares of our Series A Preferred Shares equal to 9.75% per annum per $25.00 stated liquidation preference per Series A Preferred Share. If we do not pay dividends in full on the Series A Preferred Shares on any two dividend payment dates (whether consecutive or not), then the per annum dividend rate will increase by an additional 2.00% per $25.00 stated liquidation preference, or $0.50 per annum per Series A Preferred Share, commencing on and after the day following such second dividend payment date. On each subsequent dividend payment date on which cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares are not declared and paid, the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares payable shall increase by an additional 2.00% per annum per $25.00 stated liquidation preference per Series A Preferred Share, up to a maximum annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Shares of 19.00%. The increase in dividend rates would have a detrimental effect on the value of the Company and the holders of its common stock.. In addition, while the voting rights of Series A Preferred Shares is extremely limited, in the event that we fail to pay six quarterly dividends, whether consecutive or not, on the Series A Preferred Shares or fail to maintain a listing on a national securities exchange, the holders of Series A Preferred Shares will have the right, voting together as a class with all other classes or series of parity securities upon which like voting rights have conferred and are exercisable, to elect two additional directors to serve on our board of directors. The appointment of such two designees to our board of directors could inhibit our ability to execute our business plan and pursue additional acquisitions.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock, to some extent, depends on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or lower their opinion of our shares, our share price may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our business or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. 21. Risks Related to our Series A Preferred Shares.. We cannot assure you that quarterly dividends on, or any other payments in respect of, the Series A Preferred Shares will be made timely or at all.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to pay quarterly dividends on the Series A Preferred Shares or to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares if we wanted to do so. Quarterly dividends on our Series A Preferred Shares will be paid from funds legally available for such purpose when, as and if declared by our board of directors. You should be aware that certain factors may influence our decision, or adversely affect our ability, to pay dividends on, or make other payments in respect of, our Series A Preferred Shares, including, among other things:. •  the amount of our available cash or other liquid assets, including the impact of any liquidity shortfalls caused by the below-described restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate and transfer cash to us;. •  any of the events described our filings with the SEC or the documents incorporated by reference herein or therein that impact our future financial position or performance;. •  our ability to service and refinance our current and future indebtedness;. •  changes in our cash requirements to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other operational or strategic initiatives;. •  our ability to borrow or raise additional capital to satisfy our capital needs;. •  restrictions imposed by our existing, or any future, credit facilities, debt securities or leases, including restricted payment and leverage covenants that could limit our ability to make payments to holders of the Series A Preferred Shares; and. •  limitations on cash payments to stockholders under Delaware law, including limitations that require dividend payments be made out of surplus or, subject to certain limitations, out of net profits for the then-current or preceding year in the event there is no surplus.. Based on its evaluation of these and other relevant factors, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, decide not to declare a dividend on the Series A Preferred Shares for any quarterly period for any reason, regardless of whether we have funds legally available for such purpose. In such event, the sole recourse will be the rights as a holder of Series A Preferred Shares specified in the certificate of designation for such shares, including the right to cumulative dividends and the further right under certain specified circumstances to additional interest and limited conditional voting rights.. In addition, under our Senior Credit Facility, we are prohibited from declaring and paying dividends unless: (i) there are no existing events of default under the Senior Credit Facility or an event of default would not be caused by the declaration or payment of such dividend, and (ii) the amount available under the credit facility after the pro forma effect of such dividend is at least $20.0 million and the U.S. availability is at least $12.5 million; or availability is at least the greater of 15% of the U.S. borrowing base under the credit facility, U.S. availability is at least $10.0 million and the pro forma fixed charge coverage ratio is at least 1.1 to 1.0.. The Series A Preferred Shares represent perpetual equity interests.. The Series A Preferred Shares represent perpetual equity interests in us and, unlike our indebtedness, will not entitle the holders thereof to receive payment of a principal amount at a particular date. As a result, holders of the Series A Preferred Shares may be required to bear the financial risks of an investment in the Series A Preferred Shares for an indefinite period of time. In addition, the Series A Preferred Shares will rank junior to all our indebtedness and other liabilities, and to any other senior securities we may issue in the future with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us.. Increases in market interest rates may adversely affect the trading price of our Series A Preferred Shares.. One of the factors that will influence the trading price of our Series A Preferred Shares will be the dividend yield on the Series A Preferred Shares relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may reduce demand for our Series A Preferred Shares and would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Accordingly, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our Series A Preferred Shares to decrease.. 22. The Series A Preferred Shares have not been rated, and the lack of a rating may adversely affect the trading price of the Series A Preferred Shares.. We have not sought to obtain a rating for the Series A Preferred Shares, and the shares may never be rated. It is possible, however, that one or more rating agencies might independently determine to assign a rating to the Series A Preferred Shares or that we may elect to obtain a rating of our Series A Preferred Shares in the future. In addition, we may elect to issue other securities for which we may seek to obtain a rating. The market value of the Series A Preferred Shares could be adversely affected if:. •  any ratings assigned to the Series A Preferred Shares in the future or to other securities we issue in the future are lower than market expectations or are subsequently lowered or withdrawn, or. •  ratings for such other securities would imply a lower relative value for the Series A Preferred Shares.. Our Series A Preferred Shares are junior to our debt liabilities and lease obligations, the debt and other liabilities of our subsidiaries and third-party holders of equity interests in our subsidiaries and the interests could be diluted by our issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, including additional Series A Preferred Shares, and by other transactions.. Our Series A Preferred Shares are subordinated to all of our existing and future indebtedness and lease obligations. As of June 30, 2018, we and our subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness and liabilities of approximately $171.8 million, all of which is senior in right of payment to the Series A Preferred Shares. Our existing indebtedness restricts, and our future indebtedness may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to preferred stockholders.. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes the issuance of up to five million shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series, and we will be permitted, without notice to or consent of the holders of Series A Preferred Shares, to issue additional Series A Preferred Shares or other securities that have rights junior to such shares, up to the maximum aggregate number of authorized shares of our preferred stock. The issuance of additional preferred stock on a parity with or senior to our Series A Preferred Shares would dilute the interests of the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares, and any issuance of preferred stock senior to or on a parity with our Series A Preferred Shares or of additional indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on our Series A Preferred Shares.. Except in limited circumstances, no provisions relating to our Series A Preferred Shares protect the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business, any of which might adversely affect the holders of our Series A Preferred Shares.. Holders of Series A Preferred Shares have extremely limited voting rights.. The voting rights of Series A Preferred Shares is extremely limited. However, in the event that six quarterly dividends, whether consecutive or not, payable on Series A Preferred Shares are in arrears or a listing failure has occurred and is continuing, the holders of Series A Preferred Shares will have the right, voting together as a class with all other classes or series of parity securities upon which like voting rights have conferred and are exercisable, to elect two additional directors to serve on our board of directors.. Investors should not expect us to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares on the date the Series A Preferred Shares becomes redeemable by the Company or on any particular date afterwards.. The shares of Series A Preferred Shares have no maturity or mandatory redemption date and are not redeemable at the option of investors under any circumstances. By their terms, the Series A Preferred Shares may be redeemed by us at our option either in whole or in part at any time on or after December 20, 2018 or, under certain circumstances, may be redeemed by us at our option, in whole, sooner than that date. Any decision we may make at any time regarding whether to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares will depend upon a wide variety of factors, including our evaluation of our capital position, our capital requirements and general market conditions at that time. You should not assume that we will redeem the Series A Preferred Shares at any particular time, or at all.. The Series A Preferred Shares are not convertible, and purchasers may not realize a corresponding benefit if the trading price of our common stock rises.. The Series A Preferred Shares will not be convertible into common shares or other of our securities and will not have exchange rights or be entitled or subject to any preemptive or similar rights. In addition, the Series A Preferred Shares will earn dividends at a fixed rate (subject to adjustment). Accordingly, as noted in greater detail above, the market value of the Series A Preferred Shares may depend on, among other things, dividend and interest rates for other securities and other investment alternatives and our actual and perceived ability to make dividend or other payments in respect of our Series A Preferred Shares. Moreover, our right to redeem the Series A Preferred Shares on or after December 20, 2018 or in the event of a change in control could impose a ceiling on their value.. 23"
