[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.. Our business faces significant risks and uncertainties. Certain important factors may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the SEC.. Risks Related to Our Business. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Capital. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable.. We had net losses of $254.2 million, $182.8 million, and $101.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $882.3 million. Until we succeed in commercializing TYMLOS, we expect to incur substantial losses and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially as we:. • continue to build our commercial infrastructure, including adding internal systems and hiring additional personnel;. • commercialize TYMLOS or any other product candidates, if approved;. • continue to undertake preclinical development and clinical trials for product candidates; and. • seek regulatory approvals for product candidates.. We also expect to experience negative cash flow as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. Accordingly, unless and until we generate additional revenues and become profitable, we will need to raise additional capital to continue to operate our business. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability or to raise additional capital could negatively impact the value of our securities.. We only started generating product revenues in 2017 and unless and until we become profitable, we expect that we will need to raise additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, in order to continue operating our business.. We only started to generate product revenues in 2017. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate sufficient revenue. Despite obtaining FDA approval for TYMLOS for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to attain profitability. Our ability to generate profits from sales of TYMLOS is subject to our ability to manufacture commercial quantities of TYMLOS with third parties at acceptable cost levels and maintain sales and marketing capabilities in the United States or identify and enter into one or more strategic collaborations to effectively market and sell TYMLOS outside of the United States. Even though TYMLOS has been approved by the FDA for marketing and commercial sale for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, it may not gain market acceptance or achieve commercial success. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and net losses as we commercialize TYMLOS and continue development and commercialization efforts for our other product candidates. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund our operations and capital expenditures with our existing cash and cash equivalents and short and long-term marketable securities, or through strategic financing opportunities, that could include, but are not limited to partnering or other collaboration agreements, future offerings of our equity, royalty-based financing arrangements or the incurrence of debt.. Based upon our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance as of December 31, 2017, we believe that, prior to the consideration of proceeds from partnering and/or collaboration activities, we have sufficient capital to fund our development plans, U.S. commercial and other operational activities for not less than twelve months from the date of this filing. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use up our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. If we fail to obtain additional capital, we may be forced to reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts for TYMLOS or unable to complete our planned preclinical and clinical trials and obtain approval of product candidates from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development or forego attractive business opportunities or discontinue our operations entirely. Any additional sources of financing may not be available or may not be available on favorable terms and will likely involve the issuance of additional equity securities, which will have a dilutive effect on stockholders. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the scope and progress made in our research and development activities and our clinical studies and the expenses associated with our commercialization efforts for TYMLOS.. 31. Table of Contents. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.. Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of collaborations, strategic alliances, licensing arrangements, other marketing and distribution arrangements, equity offerings, royalty-based financing arrangements and debt financings. We do not have any committed external source of funds. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through marketing and distribution arrangements or other collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements with third parties or royalty-based financing arrangements, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates, or we may need to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our commercialization or product development efforts or grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. We are a company with a limited operating history upon which to base an investment decision.. We are a company with a limited operating history and have not demonstrated an ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of TYMLOS or any of our other product candidates. The successful commercialization of TYMLOS or any product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including:. • conducting sales and marketing activities for products if and when approved;. • continuing to undertake preclinical development and clinical trials;. • participating in regulatory approval processes; and. • formulating and manufacturing products.. Our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology and undertaking preclinical and clinical trials of our product candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for you to assess our ability to commercialize our product candidates and the advisability of investing further in our securities.. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations.. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our financial results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Particularly over the near term as we continue to build our commercial capabilities and commercialize TYMLOS, our revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and our future quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of our revenues may be significantly different from those we have recorded in the past or which we expect for the future. Our financial results in some quarters may fall below expectations. Any of these events as well as the various risk factors listed in this \"Risk Factors\" section could adversely affect our financial results and cause our stock price to fall.. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail.. We regularly maintain cash balances at third-party financial institutions in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit. While we monitor daily the cash balances in the operating accounts and adjust the balances as appropriate, these balances could be impacted, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, if one or more of the financial institutions with which we deposit fails or is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurance that access to our cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets.. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce their value.. The value of our investments in marketable securities may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates, downgrades in the creditworthiness of any bonds we hold, turmoil in the credit markets and financial services industry and by other factors. 32. Table of Contents. which may result in other than temporary declines in the value of our investments. Decreases in the market value of our marketable securities could have an adverse impact on our statements of financial position, results of operations and cash flow.. We are subject to foreign currency risk.. A significant portion of our clinical trial activities, in addition to our contract manufacturing processes in support of TYMLOS, are conducted outside of the United States and a large portion of the costs incurred with these activities are denominated in the local currency of the country in which the activity is being conducted. As such, these costs could be subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At present, we do not engage in hedging transactions to protect against uncertainty in future exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. A decline in the value of the U.S. dollar against currencies in geographies in which we conduct clinical trials or contract manufacturing activities could have a negative impact on our research and development costs, our future inventory valuations, or our future cost of sales. We cannot predict the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, and foreign currency fluctuations in the future may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. For further discussion of our foreign currency risks, see \"Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\".. An adverse determination in any current or future lawsuits or arbitration proceedings to which we are a party could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are currently involved in a pending arbitration proceeding. In November 2016, we received notice that in October 2016, Ipsen Pharma SAS, or Ipsen, had initiated arbitration proceedings against us in the International Chamber of Commerce's International Court of Arbitration. Ipsen's Request for Arbitration alleges that we breached various provisions of the License Agreement concerning abaloparatide, including with regard to Ipsen's right to co-promote abaloparatide in France and a license from us with respect to Japan. Ipsen seeks declaratory relief, compliance with the License Agreement, damages, costs and fees as a result of the purported breaches, and alleges the monetary value of these claims is approximately \20050 million (approximately $59.9 million). In January 2017, we submitted an Answer denying Ipsen's claims and alleging counterclaims against Ipsen for breach of the License Agreement and other declaratory judgment. We asserted, among other things, that Ipsen's claimed rights to co-promote abaloparatide in France and to a license from us with respect to Japan have permanently expired, and that Ipsen has breached the License Agreement by, among other things, allowing certain patents to expire and by purporting to license to a third-party certain manufacturing and other rights that we contend Ipsen exclusively licensed to us. In February 2017, Ipsen submitted a Reply denying our counterclaims and alleging that we are precluded from asserting them. Following a preliminary hearing before the Arbitral Tribunal to determine certain jurisdictional and contractual defenses asserted by Ipsen in its Reply, on July 17, 2017, the Arbitral Tribunal issued a decision finding it has jurisdiction to decide our counterclaims and that our counterclaims are not contractually barred. On July 31, 2017, Ipsen submitted its Statement of Claim to the Arbitral Tribunal and on September 14, 2017, Radius submitted its Statement of Defense and Counterclaims. Subsequently, on October 20, 2017, Ipsen submitted its Reply and Statement of Defense to Radius's Counterclaims and on November 10, 2017, Radius submitted its Rejoinder on Claims and Reply on Counterclaims. Ipsen submitted a Rejoinder on Counterclaims on November 24, 2017. A hearing on the merits was held on December 18 and 19, 2017, and additional submissions on cost and fee allocation is anticipated in early 2018. We expect a final decision by the Arbitral Tribunal in the first half of 2018. Until we receive a decision from the Arbitral Tribunal, we cannot predict or assess the likely outcome of these proceedings. We have sought dismissal of Ipsen's claims, as well as declaratory relief, compliance with the License Agreement, and other damages, costs and fees to be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal. However, if such defense is unsuccessful, and Ipsen prevails on any of its claims, such an adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. Additionally, we may be the target of claims asserting violations of securities fraud and derivative actions, or other litigation or arbitration proceedings in the future. Any future litigation or arbitration proceedings could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources. These lawsuits or arbitration proceedings may result in large judgments or settlements against us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. We are also subject to a variety of other types of potential claims, proceedings, investigations and litigation which may be initiated by government agencies or third parties.  These include compliance matters, product regulation or safety, taxes, employee benefit plans, employment discrimination, health and safety, environmental, antitrust, customs, import/export, government contract compliance, financial controls or reporting, intellectual property, allegations of misrepresentation, false claims or false statements, commercial claims, claims regarding promotion of our product candidates, or other similar matters. In addition, government investigations related to the use of products, but not the efficacy themselves, may cause reputational harm to us.  Negative publicity-whether accurate or inaccurate-about the efficacy, safety or side effects of our product candidates or product categories, whether involving us or a competitor, could materially reduce market acceptance for our product candidates, cause consumers to seek alternatives to our product candidates, result in product withdrawals and cause our stock price to decline.  Negative publicity could also result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or. 33. Table of Contents. not these claims have a basis in scientific fact.  Any such claims, proceedings, investigations or litigation, regardless of the merits, might result in substantial costs, restrictions on product use or sales, or otherwise injure our business.. Risks Related to the Commercialization and Development of Our Product Candidates. We are heavily dependent on the commercial success of TYMLOS, which was approved by the FDA in April 2017; we may not be able to meet expectations with respect to TYMLOS sales or attain profitability and positive cash-flow from operations.. Our ability to successfully commercialize TYMLOS, our first approved product, is critical to the execution of our business strategy. TYMLOS may not achieve market acceptance in the United States, or in any international markets where it may subsequently be approved, among physicians, patients, and third-party payors, and may not be commercially successful. The degree of market acceptance and commercial success of TYMLOS will depend on a number of factors, including the following:. • the acceptance of TYMLOS by patients and the medical community and the availability, perceived advantages and relative cost, safety and efficacy of alternative and competing treatments;. • the cost-effectiveness of TYMLOS, availability and level of coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors, including state and federal governments, pharmacy benefit managers and health insurance plans, the willingness and ability of patients to pay for TYMLOS, and the commensurate discounts, price concessions or rebates required to secure coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors;. • the effectiveness of our marketing, sales, and distribution strategy and efforts and the degree to which the approved labeling supports promotional initiatives for commercial success;. • the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse, or any unfavorable publicity in these areas;. • the ability of our third-party manufacturer(s) to manufacture commercial supplies of TYMLOS at acceptable costs, to remain in good standing with regulatory agencies, and to develop, validate and maintain commercially viable manufacturing processes that are, to the extent required, compliant with current good manufacturing practice regulations;. • our ability to remain compliant with laws and regulations that apply to us and our commercial activities;. • our ability to comply with changes in legislation or regulations in state or federal government programs that increase manufacturer financial obligations;. • our ability to obtain marketing approvals from foreign regulatory authorities, where and as applicable;. • FDA-mandated package inserts or labeling requirements;. • the actual market size for TYMLOS, which may be different than expected;. • the sufficiency of our drug supply to meet commercial and clinical demands which could be negatively impacted if our projections regarding the potential number of patients are inaccurate, we are subject to unanticipated regulatory requirements, our current drug supply is destroyed or negatively impacted at our manufacturing sites, storage sites or in transit, or any significant portion of our TYMLOS supply expires before we are able to sell it; and. • our ability to maintain, enforce and defend third-party challenges to our intellectual property rights in and to TYMLOS.. We may experience significant fluctuations in sales of TYMLOS from period to period and, ultimately, we may never generate sufficient revenues from TYMLOS to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations. Any inability on our part to successfully commercialize TYMLOS in the United States and any international markets where it may subsequently be approved, or any significant delay, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to execute upon our business strategy.. Except for TYMLOS, our product candidates are at an early stage of development and may never receive regulatory approval.. Other than TYMLOS, which the FDA approved for use in the United States in April 2017, we have no drug products for sale and may never be able to develop additional approved and marketable drug products. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and foreign regulatory authorities in other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market TYMLOS in any foreign countries unless and until we receive the requisite approval from regulatory. 34. Table of Contents. authorities in those foreign countries. Obtaining approval of a product candidate is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and may be delayed, limited or denied for many reasons, including:. • we may not be able to demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities;. • the results of our clinical studies may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required for marketing approval;. • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical studies;. • any clinical research organizations, or CROs, that we have retained or may in the future retain, to conduct clinical studies may have taken or may take actions outside of our control that materially adversely impact our clinical studies;. • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not accept data generated at our clinical study sites;. • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical studies sufficient to demonstrate that the product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;. • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from our preclinical studies and clinical studies or may require that we conduct additional studies;. • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not agree with our proposed labeling and may require labeling that undermines or otherwise significantly impairs the commercial value of the product if it were to be approved with such labeling;. • the FDA may require development of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, as a condition of approval;. • if our NDA is reviewed by an advisory committee, the FDA may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical studies, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions; and. • the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of our third-party manufacturers.. In addition, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations.. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize any additional product candidates, including any product candidates we are currently developing or may acquire or develop in the future. In order to obtain FDA approval of any product candidate, we must submit to the FDA an NDA demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its indicated use. This demonstration requires significant research and animal tests, which are referred to as preclinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA's regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for proposed uses.. In 2007, we entered into a global pharmacovigilance agreement with Teijin Limited, or Teijin, a Japanese pharmaceutical company, that provides for the exchange of information related to serious and non-serious adverse reactions to abaloparatide by patients enrolled in clinical studies. The purpose of the agreement is to enable safety reporting to global health agencies. Teijin has initiated a Phase 3 clinical study of abaloparatide-SC in Japan for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Should Teijin advise us in accordance with our agreement of a serious adverse event experienced by patients enrolled in their study, we would need to report the serious adverse event to the FDA and the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, which could adversely affect or delay our ability to maintain or obtain regulatory approvals in the United States or Europe.. In addition, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities each has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and may require us to conduct additional preclinical and clinical testing or to perform post-marketing studies. The approval process may also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during its regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may:. • delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, our product candidates;. 35. Table of Contents. • impose costly procedures on us; and. • diminish any competitive advantages that we may otherwise enjoy.. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize any of our product candidates for sale outside the United States.. We may never receive approval for, or commercialize, our products outside of the United States.. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries for marketing authorization, including those regarding safety, efficacy and manufacturing. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others.. In November 2015, we submitted a marketing authorization application for abaloparatide-SC to the EMA through the centralized procedure. The MAA was validated and is currently undergoing active regulatory assessment by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, a scientific committee of the EMA. In December 2017, the CHMP issued a third Day-180 List of Outstanding Issues. As part of its on-going risk-benefit assessment, the CHMP informed the Company that it intends to refer the marketing authorisation application (MAA) to a scientific advisory group for additional advice. We expect that the CHMP may adopt an opinion regarding our MAA during the first half of 2018.. While we believe we have adequate data to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of abaloparatide-SC for the treatment of osteoporosis, the EMA and the CHMP may not be satisfied with our responses or may require additional information, which we may not be able to provide in a timely manner or at all. If we are unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of abaloparatide-SC to the satisfaction of the EMA and the CHMP, we may not receive marketing authorization for abaloparatide-SC in the EU, or if we need additional time to satisfy the EMA of abaloparatide-SC's safety and efficacy, the granting of a centralized marketing authorization in Europe could be delayed.. Any collaboration arrangements that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize TYMLOS, or any of our other product candidates.. Our product development programs and the commercialization of TYMLOS or any of our product candidates will require substantial cash to fund expenses. For some of our product candidates, we may decide to collaborate with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and potential commercialization of those product candidates. We will face, to the extent that we decide to enter into collaboration agreements, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements should we so chose to enter into such arrangements.. The terms of any collaborations or other arrangements that we may establish may not be favorable to us. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue.. Any future collaborations that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our future collaborators. Collaborators generally have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. If a collaborator fails to provide sufficient effort and resources to a development program, we may not realize the full potential or intended benefit of the collaboration, and the development program may be delayed or curtailed.. Clinical trials are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement.. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. A substantial portion of our expected development costs will be denominated in euros and any adverse movement in the dollar/euro exchange rate will result in increased costs and could require us to raise additional capital to complete the development of our products. The clinical trial process is also time consuming. Furthermore, failure can. 36. Table of Contents. occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including:. • changes in government regulation, administrative action or changes in FDA or foreign regulatory authority policy with respect to clinical trials that change the requirements for approval, including the size of any such trials;. • unforeseen safety issues;. • determination of dosing issues;. • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials;. • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment;. • failure of sites to comply with requirements for conducting clinical trials;. • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and. • inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols.. In addition, we, the FDA, or other equivalent regulatory authorities and ethics committees with jurisdiction over our studies may suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities find deficiencies in our regulatory submissions or the conduct of these trials. Therefore, we cannot predict with any certainty the schedule for existing or future clinical trials. Any such unexpected expenses or delays in our clinical trials could increase our need for additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all.. Most of our investigational product candidates are in early stages of clinical trials.. Except for abaloparatide-SC and abaloparatide-patch, each of our other product candidates (i.e., elacestrant (RAD1901) and RAD140) are in the early stages of development and require extensive preclinical and clinical testing. We cannot predict with any certainty if or when we might submit an NDA or equivalent application to foreign regulatory authorities for regulatory approval for any of these other product candidates or whether any such NDA or equivalent application would be accepted for filing by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities or approved if filed.. The results of clinical trials may not support our product candidate claims.. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that the results will support regulatory approval of our product candidates. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe for humans and effective for proposed uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials will delay the submission of our NDAs to the FDA or equivalent application to foreign regulatory authorities and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, our clinical trials to date (other than the ACTIVE Phase 3 Clinical Trial for abaloparatide-SC) have involved small patient populations. Because of the small sample sizes, the results of these clinical trials may not be indicative of future results.. In addition, third parties could conduct clinical trials using the product candidates we license. We would have no control over how these trials are conducted and the results could potentially contradict the results we have obtained, or will obtain from the clinical trials we conduct.. We cannot be certain that a single Phase 2 trial of elacestrant will be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or foreign marketing authorization application for this product candidate and in any event, we may be required to obtain additional clinical and non-clinical data before an NDA or foreign marketing authorization application for elacestrant may be submitted.. In general, the FDA and other foreign regulatory authorities require two pivotal trials to support approval of an NDA or foreign equivalent, but in certain circumstances, will approve an NDA based on only one pivotal trial. The FDA indicated that, depending on the study results, a single Phase 2 trial of elacestrant could be considered a pivotal study sufficient for us to request approval.  As a result of these and other additional requirements, the FDA or other foreign authorities may require that we conduct additional trials beyond the currently contemplated single-arm Phase 2 trial before we can submit an NDA or foreign marketing authorization application for elacestrant even if such trial is successful.. 37. Table of Contents. If serious adverse or undesirable side effects are identified during the development or commercialization of our product candidates, we may need to abandon our development or commercialization of some of our product candidates or products.. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could cause us, regulatory authorities, and/or ethics committees to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a more restrictive label or cause the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign authorities. It is impossible to predict when or if any of our product candidates will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive regulatory approval, if ever. If our product candidates result in undesirable side effects or have characteristics that are unexpected, we may need to abandon their development. Drug-related side effects could affect patient recruitment or the ability of enrolled patients to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly.. Additionally, if we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by TYMLOS or any other product candidate that may receive marketing approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. • regulatory authorities may withdraw approvals of such product;. • regulatory authorities may require additional warnings on the label;. • regulatory authorities may require us to adopt a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS;. • regulatory authorities may require us to conduct additional post-market studies, including clinical studies, to assess the safety of the product;. • we may be required to create a medication guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients;. • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. • our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the particular product candidate and could significantly harm our business, results of operations and prospects.. Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval, including TYMLOS, is subject to restrictions or potential withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved.. TYMLOS and any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, distribution processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, are subject to continuing requirements of and review by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, cGMP requirements relating to quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, and requirements regarding the distribution of drug products, including drug samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Marketing approval of TYMLOS and any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval is subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, and contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety and/or efficacy of the product. The FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs to ensure drugs are marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. The FDA imposes stringent restrictions on manufacturers' communications regarding off-label use and, if we market TYMLOS or any of our other products which may be approved for other than their approved indications, we may be subject to enforcement action for off-label marketing.. In addition, later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may yield various results, including:. • restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes;. • restrictions on the labeling or marketing of a product;. • restrictions on product distribution or use;. • requirements to conduct post-marketing clinical trials;. • warning or untitled letters;. • withdrawal of the products from the market;. 38. Table of Contents. • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;. • voluntary or mandatory recall of products and related publicity requirements;. • fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue;. • suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals;. • refusal to permit the import or export of our products;. • product seizure; or. • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. In addition, the FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit, or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business.. The commercial success of TYMLOS and any other product candidates that we may develop and that may be approved will depend upon the degree of market acceptance by regulators, key opinion leaders, physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community.. Even if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities approves one or more of our product candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Acceptance and use of any of our products will depend upon a number of factors including:. • perceptions by members of the healthcare community, including physicians and key opinion leaders, about the safety and effectiveness of our drug;. • the approved indicated uses for our product;. • cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products;. • availability and level of coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors, including state and federal governments, pharmacy benefit managers and health insurance plans, the willingness and ability of patients to pay for TYMLOS, and the commensurate discounts, price concessions or rebates required to secure coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors; and. • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any.. If TYMLOS or any of our other product candidates are commercialized and unexpected adverse events are reported in connection with the use of any of those products, physician and patient acceptance of the product could deteriorate and the commercial success of such product could be adversely affected. We are required to report to the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries events associated with our products relating to death or serious injury. Adverse events could result in additional regulatory controls, such as for the imposition of costly post-approval clinical studies, imposition of a REMS, or revisions to approved labeling which could limit the indications or patient population for a product, or could even lead to the withdrawal of a product from the market. Because we expect sales of TYMLOS to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, its failure to gain market acceptance or, once gained, a decrease in market acceptance would harm our business and would require us to seek additional financing.. Our ability to successfully commercialize products depends in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the costs of our products and related treatments will be available in the United States and worldwide from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations.. Our ability to successfully commercialize TYMLOS or any of our other product candidates if approved, alone or with collaborators, will depend in large part on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors, including government and health administration authorities, pharmacy benefit managers, health insurance plans and other healthcare payors.. In the United States and internationally, sales of products that we market in the future, and our ability to generate revenues on such sales, are dependent, in significant part, on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and federal governments, pharmacy benefit managers and health insurance plans. Third-party payors have implemented cost cutting and reimbursement initiatives and likely will continue to do so in the future. These. 39. Table of Contents. include establishing formularies that limit and govern the drugs and biologics that will be offered, determining the evidence and documentation required to support medical need, setting the out-of-pocket obligations of member patients, and negotiating discounts, rebates and price concessions with manufacturers for such products.  In addition, particularly in the United States and increasingly in other countries, we may be required to provide discounts, price concessions and pay rebates to state and federal governments and agencies in connection with purchases of our products that are reimbursed by such entities.  It is possible that future legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions could be enacted which could potentially impact the coverage and reimbursement for the products we are developing and may develop in the future and also could further impact the levels of discounts, price concessions, and rebates paid to federal and state government entities. For example, in 2017 the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts was signed into law, which, among other things, removed penalties for not complying with the individual mandate to carry health insurance. Any legislation that impacts these areas, including the ongoing consideration of the repeal and replacement of the ACA and other legislation focused on drug pricing, could impact, in a significant way, our ability to generate revenues from sales of products that we bring to market, including TYMLOS and any other product candidates that may receive marketing approval.. Decisions in the European Union on pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products are based upon national rules subject to the control of the Transparency Directive, which aims to ensure the transparency measures established by EU countries to control the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products.  The Transparency Directive defines a series of procedural requirements designed to verify that national pricing and reimbursement decisions do not create obstacles to the pharmaceutical trade within the EU's Internal Market. The competent authorities of each of the 28 EU Member States have adopted individual policies and rules regulating the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products in their territory. These national measures controlling pricing and reimbursement often vary widely in nature, scope and application. However, a major element that they have in common is an increased move toward reduction in the reimbursement price of medicinal products, a reduction in the number and type of products selected for reimbursement, and an increased preference for generic products over innovative products. These efforts have mostly been executed through these countries' existing price-control methodologies, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing, and reference pricing (i.e., referencing prices in other countries and using those reference prices to set a price). It is increasingly common in many EU Member States for Marketing Authorization Holders to be required, in order to obtain support for reimbursement under national health systems and, therefore, practical access to the market to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness or added value benefit of their products as compared to products (which are considered as standard of care) already subject to pricing and reimbursement in specific countries. In order for drugs to be evaluated positively under such criteria, pharmaceutical companies may need to re-examine, and consider altering, a number of traditional functions relating to the selection, study, and management of drugs, whether currently marketed, under development, or being evaluated as candidates for research and/or development.. Future legislation, including the current versions being considered at the federal and state level in the United States and at the national level in EU Member States, or regulatory actions implementing recent or future legislation may have a significant effect on our business. If government and other healthcare payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for TYMLOS or our other product candidates, once approved, market acceptance of our products could be reduced. In addition, negotiating prices with government authorities under current and proposed legislation can delay the commercialization of our product candidates.. We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on product candidates or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we narrowly focus on research programs and product candidates that we identify for specific indications. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates or for other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future research and development programs and product candidates for specific indications may not yield any commercially viable products. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to such product candidate.. If we experience delays in the enrollment of patients in our clinical trials, our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals could be delayed or prevented.. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for some of our product candidates if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in these trials as required by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, many of our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for product candidates that could be competitive with our product candidates, and patients who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may instead enroll in clinical trials of our competitors' product candidates.. 40. Table of Contents. Enrollment delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates, which would cause the value of our company to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients for any of our current or future clinical trials would result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. Our drug development programs depend upon third-party researchers, investigators and collaborators who are outside our control.. We depend upon independent researchers, investigators and collaborators, to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials under agreements with us. These third parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards and requirements, and our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our third-party researchers, investigators and collaborators are required to comply with good clinical practice, or GCP, requirements, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA, the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area, or EEA, and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for all of our products in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce these GCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA, EMA or other comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications or require a more restrictive label for the product. We cannot assure you that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials complies with GCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP regulations. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. In addition, these third parties may not assign as great a priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking such programs ourselves. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA or foreign regulatory authority applications, if any, and our introduction of new drugs, if any, will be delayed. These collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of whom may compete with us. If our collaborators assist competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed.. We currently rely on third parties to manufacture TYMLOS and to produce our other product candidates; our dependence on these parties, including any inability on our part to accurately anticipate product demand and timely secure manufacturing capacity to meet commercial or clinical product demand may impair the commercialization of TYMLOS and the research and development activities and potential commercialization of our other product candidates.. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to internally formulate or manufacture TYMLOS or our other product candidates in the quantities needed to meet commercial demand for TYMLOS, or to internally conduct our research and development activities and clinical trials for our other product candidates. Therefore, we rely on, and expect to continue relying on for the foreseeable future, a limited number of third parties to manufacture and supply materials (including raw materials and subunits), drug substance, or API, and drug product, as well as to perform additional steps in the manufacturing process, such as filling, labeling, and storage of TYMLOS and our other product candidates. There are a limited number of third parties with facilities and capabilities suited for the manufacturing process of TYMLOS and our other product candidates, which creates a heightened risk that we may not be able to obtain materials and APIs in the quantity and purity that we require. In addition, the process for adding new manufacturing capacity can be lengthy and could cause delays in our development efforts. Any interruption of the development or operation of those facilities due to, among other reasons, events such as order delays for equipment or materials, equipment malfunction, quality control and quality assurance issues, regulatory delays and possible negative effects of such delays on supply chains and expected timelines for product availability, production yield issues, shortages of qualified personnel, discontinuation of a facility or business or failure or damage to a facility by natural disasters such as earthquake or fire, could result in the cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the manufacturing process or a shortfall in available TYMLOS, our other product candidates or materials.. We have entered into agreements with contract manufacturers to manufacture TYMLOS in the quantities needed to meet commercial demand and our other product candidates for use in research and development activities and clinical trials. These contract manufacturers are currently our only source for the production and formulation of TYMLOS and our other product candidates. If our contract manufacturers are unable to produce, in a timely manner, adequate supplies of TYMLOS on commercially reasonable terms necessary to provide adequate supply to meet demands that exceed our commercial assumptions or our other product candidates to meet our commercial demand and our other product candidates to meet the needs of our clinical studies, we would be required to seek new contract manufacturers that may require us to modify our. 41. Table of Contents. finished product formulation and modify or terminate our clinical studies. Any modification of our finished product or modification or termination of our clinical studies could adversely affect the commercial potential of TYMLOS or any other product candidate that may be approved and impair our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, which would materially harm our business and impair our ability to raise capital.. In addition, the facilities and processes and controls used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture TYMLOS and our other product candidates must be approved by the EMA, and by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted following our regulatory approval submissions. We do not control the facilities or manufacturing process, and are completely dependent on, our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with cGMPs for manufacture of both active drug substances and finished drug products. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities, they will not be able to secure and/or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve our contract manufacturers for the manufacture of our product candidates or if they withdraw any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market, with respect to TYMLOS, or for our other product candidates, if approved.. We depend on a number of single source contract manufacturers to supply key components of abaloparatide. For example, we depend on PPL, which has agreed to produce supplies of abaloparatide API to support the abaloparatide-SC and abaloparatide-patch clinical studies and the commercial supplies of TYMLOS. We also depend on Vetter and Ypsomed for the production of finished drug product clinical and commercial supplies of TYMLOS and we depend on 3M for the production of abaloparatide-patch. If our relationship with any of these contract manufacturers is terminated, or if they are unable to produce abaloparatide or related components in required quantities, on a timely basis or at all, and/or in compliance with the terms of our agreements, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. Because the manufacturing process for abaloparatide-patch requires the use of 3M's proprietary technology, 3M is the sole source for supplies of abaloparatide-patch. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks:. • We may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms, or at all, because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any.. • Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs or related components in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical needs and commercial needs.. • Our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products.. • Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards, and failure to comply with cGMP or corresponding foreign standards can result in compliance actions that may limit a manufacturer's production or prohibit a manufacturer from producing some or all products at a facility and/or importing it into the United States or a foreign country. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards.. • If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, any such improvement(s) could be subject to FDA review and prior approval, and we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation.. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials, the approval of our product candidates by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities or the commercialization of TYMLOS or any of our other product candidates that may be approved or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues.. Risks Related to Marketing and Sale of Our Products. If we are unable to maintain our commercial capabilities on our own or through partnerships or collaborations, we may not be able to successfully commercialize TYMLOS or any future product candidates or generate product revenue.. We established a sales force to market and sell TYMLOS in the United States to specialists and also intend to pursue collaborative arrangements to market and sell abaloparatide-SC outside of the United States. Therefore, our future success depends, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships for such capabilities, the collaborators'. 42. Table of Contents. strategic interest in the products under development and such collaborators' ability to successfully market and sell any such products.. In addition, our ability to build and maintain effective commercial, medical affairs, marketing, sales, market access, managerial and other non-technical capabilities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to:. • identify, recruit, hire, train, incentivize and retain a significant number of commercial and medical affairs personnel, including a specialty sales force with appropriate technical expertise;. • train our sales representatives, to deliver clear and compelling messages within the scope of the approved labeling and in accordance with other applicable FDA requirements regarding TYMLOS and to be credible and persuasive in educating physicians on the appropriate situations to consider prescribing it as set forth in the approved labeling;. • ensure our commercial customer-facing team, including sales, market access, and field logistics professionals, effectively build relationships with their respective customers;. • manage a geographically dispersed national commercial customer-facing organization; and. • manage our significant projected growth and the integration of new personnel.. Building and maintaining our commercial and medical affairs capabilities may be more expensive and time consuming than we anticipate, requiring us to divert resources from other intended purposes or preventing us from building these capabilities to the desired levels. Any failure or delay in building and maintaining these capabilities on our own or through partnerships or collaborations will adversely impact the successful commercialization of TYMLOS, or any future product candidate. If we establish a partnership or collaboration for purposes of commercializing abaloparatide-SC, or any future product candidate, the launch of that product candidate would need to be established in conjunction with our partner, which could result in a change in timing of the commercial launch.. In addition, given our existing resources and emerging experience in marketing, selling and distributing pharmaceutical products, our initial specialty sales force may be materially smaller than the actual number of sales representatives required to successfully commercialize TYMLOS. As such, we may be required to hire substantially more sales representatives to adequately support the commercialization of TYMLOS.. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer.. The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. TYMLOS and any of our product candidates that may receive FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing products may provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If TYMLOS or any of our other potential products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer.. In April 2017, we received FDA approval of TYMLOS for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture. TYMLOS competes in the U.S. against well-known treatment options, including teriparatide, marketed by Lilly in the U.S. as Forteo. TYMLOS may also face competition from generic or biosimilar versions of teriparatide. For example, in January 2017 a biosimilar version of teriparatide was approved in the European Union, although the product is not expected to be launched until the expiration or invalidation of applicable patents covering teriparatide. We are also aware of other companies pursuing development of biosimilar and/or generic versions of teriparatide in the U.S. and EU through various regulatory pathways. The availability of a generic or biosimilar teriparatide on the market would likely exert pricing and reimbursement pressure on the anabolic class in which abaloparatide-SC would compete. In addition, there are other organizations working to develop new therapies to treat osteoporosis. For example, UCB and Amgen are co-developing an anti-sclerostin anabolic monoclonal antibody for the treatment of osteoporosis. In order to compete successfully in this market, we will have to demonstrate to patients, physicians and third-party payors that the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk of fracture with TYMLOS is worthwhile and is a better alternative to existing or new therapies.. We face significant competition from many fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors have compounds already approved or in development. In addition, many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in:. • developing drugs;. 43. Table of Contents. • undertaking preclinical testing and human clinical trials;. • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs;. • formulating and manufacturing drugs; and. • launching, marketing, distributing, and selling drugs.. Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our product TYMLOS, and product candidates abaloparatide-patch, elacestrant and RAD140, if approved, will compete against existing therapies. In addition, a large number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting. We face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in the United States and abroad. In addition, companies doing business in different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, longer drug development history in obtaining regulatory approvals, and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel and parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations, and therefore, we may not be able to hire or retain qualified personnel to run all facets of our business. These risks could render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive.. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits.. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with collaborators.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we fail to comply with our obligations in our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We are a party to a number of intellectual property license agreements with third parties and expect to enter into additional license agreements in the future. Our existing license agreements impose, and we expect that any future license agreements will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, our licensors may have the right to terminate these agreements, in which event we might not be able to develop and market any product that is covered by these agreements. Termination of these licenses or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms. The occurrence of such events could materially harm our business.. In November 2016, we received notice that in October 2016, Ipsen initiated arbitration proceedings against us in the International Chamber of Commerce's International Court of Arbitration. Ipsen's Request for Arbitration alleges that we breached various provisions of the License Agreement concerning abaloparatide, including with regard to Ipsen's right to co-promote abaloparatide in France and a license from us with respect to Japan. Ipsen seeks declaratory relief, compliance with the License Agreement, damages, costs and fees as a result of the purported breaches, and alleges the monetary value of these claims is approximately \20050 million (approximately $59.9 million).  We have sought dismissal of Ipsen's claims, as well as declaratory relief, compliance with the License Agreement, and other damages, costs and fees to be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.  A hearing on the merits was held on December 18 and 19, 2017, and additional submissions on cost and fee allocation is anticipated in early 2018. We expect a final decision by the Arbitral Tribunal in the first half of 2018. Until we receive a decision from the Arbitral Tribunal, we cannot predict or assess the likely outcome of these proceedings.. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property related to abaloparatide-SC, abaloparatide-patch, elacestrant and/or RAD140 fail to adequately protect these assets or if we are unable to secure all necessary intellectual property, we may lose the ability to license or successfully commercialize one or more of these candidates.. Our commercial success is significantly dependent on intellectual property related to our portfolio of product candidates. We are either the licensee or assignee of numerous issued and pending patent applications that cover various aspects of our assets, including abaloparatide-SC, abaloparatide-patch, elacestrant and RAD140.. 44. Table of Contents. Patents covering abaloparatide as a composition of matter have been issued in the United States (U.S. Patent No. 5,969,095) and several additional countries. Because the abaloparatide composition of matter patent was filed in 1996, it expired in 2016 in the United States, and additional countries where it had issued. Prior to its expiration, European Patent No. 0847278, which was included in the license from Ipsen and claimed the composition of matter of abaloparatide, lapsed due to Ipsen's failure to pay annuities. Prior to expiration, we pursued restoration of those patent rights in various countries. As a result of the lapse and expiration of patent rights, we believe that some of Ipsen's rights under our license agreement with Ipsen have terminated. We are currently involved in a pending arbitration proceeding with Ipsen regarding these Ipsen rights and related terms of our license agreement.. We and Ipsen are also co-assignees to U.S. Patent No. 7,803,770 that we believe provides exclusivity until October 3, 2027 and may be adjusted to March 26, 2028 in the United States (not including any Hatch-Waxman patent term extension) for the method of treating osteoporosis with the intended therapeutic dose for abaloparatide-SC. A closely-related patent (European Patent No. 2957278) has been issued in Europe.  This patent also has an expiration date of October 3, 2027, absent any issued supplementary protection certificates, or SPCs.. We and Ipsen are also co-assignees to U.S. Patent No. 8,148,333 that we believe provides exclusivity until 2027 in the United States (not including any Hatch-Waxman patent term extension) for the intended therapeutic formulation for abaloparatide-SC.. We and 3M are co-assignees to several foreign and corresponding U.S. patent applications, which cover various aspects of abaloparatide for microneedle application. Any issued patents resulting from these applications will have statutory expiration dates ranging from 2032 to 2037, not taking into account extension under any applicable laws. However, pending patent applications in the United States and elsewhere may not issue since the interpretation of the legal requirements of patentability in view of claimed inventions are not always predictable. Additional intellectual property covering abaloparatide-patch technology exists in the form of proprietary information protected as trade secrets. These can be accidentally disclosed to, independently derived by or misappropriated by competitors, possibly reducing or eliminating the exclusivity advantages of this form of intellectual property, thereby allowing those competitors more rapid entry into the marketplace with a competitive product, which reduces our advantage with abaloparatide-patch. In addition, trade secrets may in some instances become publicly available through required disclosures in regulatory files. Alternatively, competitors may sometimes reverse engineer a product once it becomes available on the market. Even where a competitor does not use an identical technology for the delivery of abaloparatide, it is possible that they could achieve an equivalent or even superior result using another technology. Such occurrences could lead to either one or more alternative competitor products becoming available on the market and/or one or more generic competitor products on the market gaining market share and causing a corresponding decrease in market share and/or price for abaloparatide-patch even if it were to be successfully developed and approved by the FDA.. Patents covering elacestrant as a composition of matter, as well as the use of elacestrant for the treatment of estrogen-dependent breast cancer, have been issued in the United States, Canada, Australia, Japan and Europe, and are pending in India. The elacestrant composition of matter patents in the United States expire in 2023 and may be adjusted to 2026 (not including any Hatch-Waxman patent term extension). We exclusively licensed US 9,421,264 covering the treatment of ER+, SERM-resistant (such as tamoxifen and fulvestrant) breast cancer brain metastasis with elacestrant and related applications covering, more broadly, the use of elacestrant for the treatment of ER+ cancers, such as SERM-resitant ER+ breast cancer (statutory term expires October 10, 2034, not taking into account any extension under any applicable laws). Corresponding applications pending in Europe and Canada will have a statutory expiration date in 2035.  Polymorphic forms of elacestrant are covered in a U.S. application and a PCT application (filed January 2018) having a projected statutory expiration date in 2038, not taking into account any extension under any applicable laws.  Elacestrant combination therapies with a CDK4/6 inhibitor (e.g., palbociclib) or an mTOR inhibitor (e.g., everolimus) for treatment of cancers that are drug-resistant and/or expressing mutant ERa+ are covered by applications pending in the U.S., Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Israel, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, and Singapore (statutory expiration date in 2036, not taking into account any extension under any applicable laws).  We could encounter challenges or difficulties in maintaining and/or defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad.. Patent applications covering RAD140 and other selective androgen receptor modulator compounds have been granted in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, Japan and Australia, and are pending in Brazil and India. The RAD140 composition of matter patents expire in 2029 in the United States (not including any Hatch-Waxman patent term extension) and additional countries if and when they issue. The PCT application covering RAD140 for the treatment of AR+ breast cancer has been filed and has a projected statutory expiration date in 2037, not taking into account extension under any applicable laws.  This PCT application covers the use of RAD140 alone or in combination with a CDK4/6 inhibitor (e.g., palbociclib) or an mTOR inhibitor (e.g., everolimus).. Since patents are technical legal documents that are frequently subject to intense litigation pressure, there is risk that even if one or more patents related to our products does issue and is asserted that the patent(s) will be found invalid, unenforceable. 45. Table of Contents. and/or not infringed when subject to said litigation. Finally, the intellectual property laws and practices can vary considerably from one country to another and also can change with time. As a result, we could encounter challenges or difficulties in building, maintaining and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad.. We may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to patents issued or licensed to us, including interference proceedings before the USPTO. Third parties also may assert infringement claims against us. If we are found to infringe a third-party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third-party to continue developing and marketing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies licensed to us. We could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could have a similar negative impact on our business.. If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if our licensors are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for the technology or products that we license from them, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected.. Our success depends in large part on our and our licensors' ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products. In some circumstances, we may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the patents, covering technology or products that we license from third parties. Therefore, we cannot be certain that these patents and applications will be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. In addition, if third parties who license patents to us fail to maintain these patents, or lose rights to those patents, the rights we have licensed may be reduced or eliminated.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our and our licensors' patent rights are highly uncertain. Our and our licensors' pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued that protect our technology or products or that effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, in the United States, prior to March 16, 2013, the first to make the claimed invention was entitled to the patent, or a \"first-to-invent\" system, while outside the United States, the first to file a patent application is entitled to the patent, or a \"first-to-file\" system. With the implementation of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, the United States now has a first-to-file system for patent applications filed on or after March 16, 2013. We may become involved in opposition, interference or derivation proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. For example, we are aware of two oppositions to European Patent No. 2957278 filed with the European Patent Office. One opposition was filed on February 16, 2018 by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd and the other opposition was filed on February 19, 2018 in the name of a patent law firm Isenbruck Bosl Horschler LLP. There may be additional oppositions we are not aware of, but filed before the opposition period expired on February 19, 2018. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned and licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could reduce the scope of, or invalidate our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights.. Even if our owned and licensed patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Any challenges may result in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, which could limit our ability to stop or prevent us from stopping others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Given the amount of time required for the. 46. Table of Contents. development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are approved or commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patents may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.. Payments, fees, submissions and various additional requirements must be met in order for pending patent applications to advance in prosecution and issued patents to be maintained. Rigorous compliance with these requirements is essential to procurement and maintenance of patents integral to our product portfolio.. Periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees and various other governmental fees on patents and/or patent applications will come due for payment periodically throughout the lifecycle of patent applications and issued patents. In order to help ensure that we comply with any required fee payment, documentary and/or procedural requirements as they might relate to any patents for which we are an assignee or co-assignee, we employ competent legal help and related professionals as needed to comply with those requirements. Our outside patent counsel uses CPA Global for patent annuity payments. We depend on Eisai to comply with any required fee payment, documentary and/or procedural requirements as they might relate to any patents we have licensed from them. Failure to meet a required fee payment, document production or procedural requirement can result in the abandonment of a pending patent application or the lapse of an issued patent. In some instances, the defect can be cured through late compliance but there are situations where the failure to meet the required event cannot be cured. Any failures could compromise the intellectual property protection around our preclinical or clinical candidates and possibly weaken or eliminate our ability to protect our eventual market share for that product.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to our patented technology and products, we rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to our trade secrets, such as our corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. However, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for any breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to, or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.. If we infringe the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products and could be forced to pay damages and defend against litigation.. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and may have to:. • obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all;. • abandon an infringing drug candidate;. • redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement;. • stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others;. • pay damages; or. • defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid and/or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated and/or interpreted narrowly. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our. 47. Table of Contents. confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, our licensors may have rights to file and prosecute these types of claims, and we may be reliant on them to do so.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. Some of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities, delaying the development of our product candidates. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Litigation or other proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct any litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of any litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace.. Risks Related to Legislation and Administrative Actions. Healthcare reform may have a material adverse effect on our industry and our results of operations.. From time to time, legislation is implemented to reign in rising healthcare expenditures. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or ACA, was enacted. ACA includes a number of provisions affecting the pharmaceutical industry, including annual, non-deductible fees on any entity that manufactures or imports some types of branded prescription drugs and biologics and increases in Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. In addition, among other things, ACA also establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since ACA was enacted, which also may impact our business. In August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, or BCA, was enacted, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or ATRA, was enacted, which among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. The full impact on our business of these laws is uncertain. We cannot predict whether other legislative changes will be adopted, if any, or how such changes would affect the pharmaceutical industry generally or our business in particular.. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our product candidates once approved or additional pricing pressures, and may adversely affect our operating results. Such legislation may also reduce our flexibility in setting prices for our product candidates, or in taking price increases.. We are subject to healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement, and our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions.. We are subject to several healthcare regulations and enforcement by the federal government and the states and foreign governments in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:. 48. Table of Contents. • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of various electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information;. • the federal healthcare programs' Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation; in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;. • federal false claims laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;. • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation;. • the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, or the Sunshine Act, requires applicable manufacturers of covered drugs to report payments and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Manufacturers are required to submit reports to the government by the 90th day of each calendar year; and. • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report and make public drug prices and/or price increases; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Our operations and commercial activities in connection with TYMLOS any other product candidate that may be approved are and will be subject to comprehensive compliance obligations under state and federal fraud and abuse, false claims, physician payment transparency laws and government pricing regulations, as described above. If we are found to be in violation of these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. We may be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals.. Our research and development activities may involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products may require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The potential U.K. exit from the European Union as a result of the June 2016 U.K. referendum could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the U.K. affirmatively voted in a referendum advising for the exit of the U.K. from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". In March 2017, the U.K. government formally notified the European Council of its intention to leave the EU. The formal notification triggered a procedure set out in Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty to begin the two-year. 49. Table of Contents. negotiation process to conclude an agreement between the U.K. and the EU setting out the arrangements for the U.K.'s withdrawal, taking account of the framework for the U.K.'s future relationship with the EU. The agreement must be concluded on behalf of the EU by the European Council acting by a qualified majority, after obtaining the consent of the European Parliament. There is uncertainty about the terms of the final agreement and the framework for the future relationship between the U.K. and the EU. The U.K. government has prepared the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill which is currently being considered by the U.K. legislature in both Houses of the Parliament. The Bill seeks to repeal the European Communities Act 1972 (ECA) that confers power to incorporate EU law into the UK domestic legal order and provides for the supremacy of EU law. The U.K. Government recognizes that simply repealing the ECA would lead to a confused and incomplete legal system. The Bill will convert directly-applicable EU laws into UK law once the U.K. leaves the EU, and confer delegated power on the U.K. Government to make changes to the full body of EU-derived law Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate and could have a material impact on its economy and the future growth of its various industries. In particular, there is uncertainty about the U.K. will continue to be within the single market and customs union for goods and services to be moved freely within the EU.. The announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. The announcement of Brexit and the withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Recent decisions from the European General Court on public access to clinical trial data held by the EMA could result in disclosure of our pre-clinical and clinical trial data to competitors, or other third parties, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In the EU, Regulation 1049/2001/EC, commonly known as the EU Freedom of Information Regulation or Public Access Regulation (the \"Transparency Regulation\"), allows any EU citizens and any natural or legal persons residing or having their headquarters in an EU country to request access to the documents held by a EU institution on grounds relating to public interest. The Transparency Regulation applies to the EMA, which has implemented the provisions in its established policy. The EMA policy favors public access, subject to certain limited exceptions if disclosure undermines, among others, the protection of commercial interests. The EMA policy has been the subject of three recent rulings of the European General Court in the following cases: Pari Pharma GmbH v EMA (Case T-235/1); MSD Animal Health Innovation and Intervet International v EMA(Case T-729/15) and PTC Therapeutics International v EMA (Case T-718/15). These decisions responded to demands for greater transparency and disclosure of pre-clinical and clinical data and validated the EMA's transparency policy to provide greater public access to information held and documents drawn up by the EMA. These decisions clarified that misuse of the data by a competitor is not relevant to an assessment of confidentiality under the Transparency Regulation and the argument that data exclusivity or protection in countries outside the EU may be lost due to use of the disclosed documents does not make the data in question confidential.. The potential risk to our business under the Transparency Regulation is significant. For example, our marketing authorisation application for abaloparatide-SC in the EU is currently being reviewed centrally by the EMA and its advisory committees. At present, according to the established EMA policy, the information contained in our marketing authorisation application, responses we provide to the questions raised by the EMA and its advisory committees as well as the assessment reports drawn up by the EMA and its advisory committees would not be disclosed. However, in light of the European General Court's recent Transparency Regulation decisions, such information could be susceptible to disclosure to third parties, including to our competitors, once a decision on the approvability of abaloparatide-SC is made and our marketing authorisation application is withdrawn from the centralized procedure. The potential disclosure of such information to third parties, including our competitors, and the potential loss of data exclusivity or protections in countries outside the EU could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth. We have recently increased the size of our organization, and will need to continue to increase the size of our organization. We may encounter difficulties with managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Although we have already added several capabilities, we may need to add additional qualified personnel and resources as we launch TYMLOS. Our current infrastructure may be inadequate to support our recent and expected growth. In particular, we may need to grow our internal sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities to successfully market TYMLOS and any other drug that we may successfully develop. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of. 50. Table of Contents. management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees, and may take time away from running other aspects of our business, including development and commercialization of our product candidates.. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. In particular, as our commercialization plans and strategies develop, we will recruit and train a substantial number of sales and marketing personnel and expect to expand the size of our employee base for managerial, operational, financial and other resources. To that end, we must be able to:. • manage our development efforts effectively;. • integrate additional management, administrative and manufacturing personnel;. • build a marketing and sales organization; and. • maintain sufficient administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls.. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks or successfully manage our operations and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development, and commercialization goals. Our failure to accomplish any of these goals could harm our financial results and prospects.. As we evolve from a company primarily involved in drug development into one that is also involved in the commercialization of pharmaceutical products, we may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully.. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, and if we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our business will be harmed. We have recently expanded, and will continue to expand, our development, regulatory, manufacturing, quality, distribution, sales and marketing capabilities. As part of this expansion, we expect we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaborators, suppliers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. For example, some jurisdictions, such as the District of Columbia, have imposed licensing requirements for sales representatives. In addition, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as well as the federal government by way of the Sunshine Act, have established reporting requirements that would require public reporting of compensation and other \"transfers of value\" paid to health care professionals and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by such professionals and their immediate family members. Because the reporting requirements vary in each jurisdiction, compliance will be complex and expensive and may create barriers to entering the commercialization phase. The need to build new systems as part of our growth could place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Such requirements may also impact our opportunities to collaborate with physicians at academic research centers as new restrictions on academic-industry relationships are put in place. In the past, collaborations between academia and industry have led to important new innovations, but the new laws may have an effect on these activities. While we cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory changes will have negative or positive effects, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and potential profitability.. If we are unable to successfully maintain and further develop internal commercialization capabilities, sales of TYMLOS may be negatively impacted.. We have only recently started to commercialize our first drug product. We have built a commercial team and established the organizational infrastructure we believe necessary for a successful commercial launch of TYMLOS in the United States. We will need to commit significant time, financial and managerial resources to maintain and further develop our marketing and sales force to ensure they have the technical expertise required to address any challenges we may face with the commercialization of TYMLOS. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to maintain and develop our commercialization capabilities include:. • an inability to retain an adequate number of effective commercial personnel;. • our ability to train sales personnel, who may have limited experience with our company or TYMLOS, to deliver a consistent and compliant message regarding TYMLOS that will be compelling to physicians who may prescribe TYMLOS;. • an inability to equip sales personnel with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them educate physicians and our healthcare providers regarding TYMLOS and its proper administration;. 51. Table of Contents. • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with maintaining and further developing an independent sales and marketing organization.. If we are not successful in establishing and maintaining an effective commercial infrastructure, we will have difficulty generating product revenue, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. If the cost of establishing and maintaining a sales and marketing organization exceeds the cost-effectiveness of doing so, we may not become profitable.. We may enter into or seek to enter into business combinations and acquisitions which may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, divert management attention or dilute stockholder value.. We may enter into business combinations and acquisitions. We have limited experience in making acquisitions, which are typically accompanied by a number of risks, including:. • the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies;. • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;. • the potential for unknown liabilities and expenses;. • the failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition;. • the maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; and. • the impairment of relationships with employees as a result of any integration of new management and other personnel.. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we would be required to reevaluate our business strategy and we may have incurred substantial expenses and devoted significant management time and resources in seeking to complete the acquisitions. In addition, we could use substantial portions of our available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price, or we could issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution.. We rely on key executive officers and scientific and medical advisors, and their knowledge of our business and technical expertise would be difficult to replace.. We are highly dependent on our chief executive officer and our principal scientific, regulatory and medical advisors. We do not have \"key person\" life insurance policies for any of our officers. The loss of the technical knowledge and management and industry expertise of any of our key personnel could result in delays in product development, loss of customers and sales and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results.. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business may be harmed.. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and sales and marketing. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success.. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business.. Our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex and interdependent information technology systems to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. Our computer systems are vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and computer viruses. Any failure to protect against breakdowns, malicious intrusions and computer viruses may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. In addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches, whether by employees or others, which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. Such disruptions and breaches of security could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on the operating results and financial condition of our business.. Risks Relating to Our Securities. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.. 52. Table of Contents. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • actions or delays by the FDA, EMA or other foreign regulatory authority in respect of any NDA, MAA or other application we may submit for any of our product candidates, including our MAA for abaloparatide-SC;. • results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors;. • our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies;. • the success of competitive products;. • the overall performance of the equity markets;. • the number of shares of our common stock publicly owned and available for trading;. • threatened or actual litigation;. • changes in laws or regulations relating to our products, including changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. • any major change in our board of directors or management;. • publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;. • large volumes of sales or other transfers of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders;. • general political, economic and market conditions; and. • the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies whose shares trade in the stock market. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.. As a public company listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, or NASDAQ, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and NASDAQ have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and are making some activities more time-consuming and costly.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting, and are required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations as a publicly traded company or comply with the requirements of the SEC or Section 404. This could result in a restatement of our consolidated financial statements, the imposition of sanctions, including the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common shares, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action or other negative results caused by our inability to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements or by disclosure of an accounting, reporting or control issue could adversely affect the trading price of our securities and our. 53. Table of Contents. business. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain.. Our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, have substantial influence over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control.. Our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially own a substantial amount of shares of our common stock. These stockholders, acting together, have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to significantly influence the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by:. • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control;. • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or. • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. Additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. These sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to our existing stockholders.. Pursuant to our equity incentive plans, our management is authorized to grant stock options and other equity-based awards to our employees, directors and consultants. We have reserved 9,860,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under our equity incentive plans as of December 31, 2017, which includes 2,584,000 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options outstanding as of December 31, 2017, and approximately 147,000 restricted stock units, each of which will become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, warrants to purchase 605,415 shares of our common stock were outstanding. Pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan, eligible employees may participate in an employee stock purchase plan sponsored by us. The current plan allows for the issuance of 1,290,954 shares of common stock to eligible employees. As of December 31, 2017, there were 1,214,314 shares available for future sale to employees under this plan. Shares of our common stock issued upon exercise of these warrants may be sold in the public market, subject to prior registration or under an exemption from registration.. If securities or industry analysts cease to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. We may be required to pay severance benefits to our employees who are terminated in connection with a change in control, which could harm our financial condition or results.. Each of our executive officers is party to an employment agreement, and each of our other employees is party to an agreement or participates in a plan that provides change in control severance benefits including cash payments for severance and other benefits and acceleration of vesting of stock options and other equity awards in the event of a termination of employment in connection with a change in control of us. The payment of these severance benefits could harm our financial condition and results. The accelerated vesting of options and equity awards could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and harm the market price of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. 54. Table of Contents. Our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include:. • a staggered board of directors;. • authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock;. • authorizing the board to amend our bylaws and to fill board vacancies until the next annual meeting of the stockholders;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • eliminating the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; and. • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals.. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits, subject to some exceptions, \"business combinations\" between a Delaware corporation and an \"interested stockholder,\" which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder.. These and other provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $751.7 million of federal and $669.3 million of state net operating loss carryforwards available to offset future taxable income. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. We have completed studies through December 31, 2015, to determine whether any ownership change has occurred since our formation and have determined that transactions have resulted in two ownership changes, as defined under Section 382. There could be additional ownership changes in the future that could further limit the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that we can utilize.. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), the amount of post 2017 net operating loss carryforwards that we are permitted to deduct in any taxable year is limited to 80% of our taxable income in such year, where taxable income is determined without regard to the net operating loss carryforward deduction itself.  The Tax Act generally eliminates the ability to carry back any net operating loss to prior taxable years, while allowing post 2017 unused net operating loss carryforwards to be carried forward indefinitely.  There is a risk that due to changes under the Tax Act, regulatory changes or other unforeseen reasons, our existing net operating loss carryforwards could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities.. 55. Table of Contents"
