[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. If BRMG or any of our other contracted radiology practices terminate their agreements with us, our business could substantially diminish.. Our relationship with BRMG is an integral part of our business. Through our management agreement, BRMG provides all of the professional medical services at 127 of our 132 California facilities. Professional medical services are provided at our other facilities through management contracts with IA, the NY Groups, and other radiology groups. BRMG and these other radiology groups contract with various other independent physicians and physician groups to provide all of the professional medical services at most of our facilities, and they must use their best efforts to provide the professional medical services at any new facilities that we open or acquire in their areas of operation. In addition, BRMG and the other radiology groups’ strong relationships with referring physicians are largely responsible for the revenue generated at the facilities they service. Although our management agreement with BRMG runs until 2024, with automatic renewals for 10-year periods, and our management agreements with other groups are also for multiple years, BRMG and the other radiology groups have the right to terminate the agreements if we default on our obligations and fail to cure the default. Also, the various radiology groups’ ability to continue performing under the management agreements may be curtailed or eliminated due to the groups’ financial difficulties, loss of physicians or other circumstances. If the radiology groups cannot perform their obligations to us, we would need to contract with one or more other radiology groups to provide the professional medical services at the facilities serviced by the group. We may not be able to locate radiology groups willing to provide those services on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we were able to do so, any replacement radiology group’s relationships with referring physicians may not be as extensive as those of the terminated group. In any such event, our business could be seriously harmed. In addition, the radiology groups are party to substantially all of the managed care contracts from which we derive revenue. If we were unable to readily replace these contracts, our revenue would be negatively affected.. We may experience risks associated with our strategic partnership with Imaging Advantage LLC. In December 2015, we entered into a multi-year strategic relationship with Imaging Advantage LLC. Under the terms of such agreement, we have agreed to collaborate to deploy innovative models of delivering radiology services. While we expect this strategic relationship to increase our profitability and expand our operations, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of such relationship.. Our ability to generate revenue depends in large part on referrals from physicians.. We derive substantially all of our net revenue, directly or indirectly, from fees charged for the diagnostic imaging services performed at our facilities. We depend on referrals of patients from unaffiliated physicians and other third parties who have no contractual obligations to refer patients to us for a substantial portion of the services we perform. If a sufficiently large number of these physicians and other third parties were to discontinue referring patients to us, our scan volume could decrease, which would reduce our net revenue and operating margins. Further, commercial third-party payors have implemented programs that could limit the ability of physicians to refer patients to us. For example, prepaid healthcare plans, such as health maintenance organizations, sometimes contract directly with providers and require their enrollees to obtain these services exclusively from those providers. Some insurance companies and self-insured employers also limit these services to contracted providers. These “closed panel” systems are now common in the managed care environment. Other systems create an economic disincentive for referrals to providers outside the system’s designated panel of providers. If we are unable to compete successfully for these managed care contracts, our results and prospects for growth could be adversely affected.. 20. If our contracted radiology practices, including BRMG and the NY Groups, lose a significant number of their radiologists, our financial results could be adversely affected.. At times, there has been a shortage of qualified radiologists in some of the regional markets we serve. In addition, competition in recruiting radiologists may make it difficult for our contracted radiology practices to maintain adequate levels of radiologists. If a significant number of radiologists terminate their relationships with our contracted radiology practices and those radiology practices cannot recruit sufficient qualified radiologists to fulfill their obligations under our agreements with them, our ability to maximize the use of our diagnostic imaging facilities and our financial results could be adversely affected. Increased expenses to BRMG and the NY Groups will impact our financial results because the management fee we receive from BRMG and the NY Groups, which is based on a percentage of their collections, is adjusted annually to take into account the expenses of BRMG or the NY Groups, as applicable. Neither we, nor our contracted radiology practices, maintain insurance on the lives of any affiliated physicians.. We may become subject to professional malpractice liability, which could be costly and negatively impact our business.. The physicians employed by our contracted radiology practices are from time to time subject to malpractice claims. We structure our relationships with the practices under our management agreements in a manner that we believe does not constitute the practice of medicine by us or subject us to professional malpractice claims for acts or omissions of physicians employed by the contracted radiology practices. Nevertheless, claims, suits or complaints relating to services provided by the contracted radiology practices have been asserted against us in the past and may be asserted against us in the future. In addition, we may be subject to professional liability claims, including, without limitation, for improper use or malfunction of our diagnostic imaging equipment or for accidental contamination or injury from exposure to radiation. We may not be able to maintain adequate liability insurance to protect us against those claims at acceptable costs or at all.. Historically, we have sought to manage this risk of loss by, among other things, purchasing professional liability insurance. However, the insurer from which we purchased such insurance for the period ending July 15, 2017, Fairway Physicians Insurance Company, A Risk Retention Group (“Fairway”), recently experienced financial hardship.  As a result, on August 29, 2017, the District of Columbia Department of Insurance, Securities and Banking (“DISB”) found that Fairway was statutorily insolvent and that its continued operation would be hazardous to its policyholders, creditors and the general public.  On October 25, 2017, the Superior Court for the District of Columbia issued an order authorizing the DISB Commissioner to liquidate Fairway.  Fairway’s liquidation is currently pending, and it is presently unknown whether the Fairway liquidation estate will be able to pay covered policyholder claims, including claims asserted against us.. Any claim made against us that is not fully covered by insurance could be costly to defend, result in a substantial damage award against us and divert the attention of our management from our operations, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, successful claims against us may adversely affect our business or reputation. Although California places a $250,000 limit on non-economic damages for medical malpractice cases, no limit applies to economic damages and no such limits exist in the other states in which we provide services.. We may not receive payment from some of our healthcare provider customers because of their financial circumstances.. Some of our healthcare provider customers do not have significant financial resources, liquidity or access to capital. If these customers experience financial difficulties they may be unable to pay us for the equipment and services that we provide. A significant deterioration in general or local economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the financial health of certain of our healthcare provider customers. As a result, we may have to increase the amounts of accounts receivables that we write-off, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Capitation fee arrangements could reduce our operating margins.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived approximately 11.5% of our net service fee revenue before provision for bad debt from capitation arrangements, and we intend to increase the revenue we derive from capitation arrangements in the future. Under capitation arrangements, the payor pays a pre-determined amount per-patient per-month in exchange for us providing all necessary covered services to the patients covered under the arrangement. These contracts pass much of the financial risk of providing diagnostic imaging services, including the risk of over-use, from the payor to the provider. Our success depends in part on our ability to negotiate effectively, on behalf of the contracted radiology practices and our diagnostic imaging facilities, contracts with health maintenance organizations, employer groups and other third-party payors for services to be provided on a capitated basis and to efficiently manage the utilization of those services. If we are not successful in managing the utilization of services under these capitation arrangements or if patients or enrollees covered by these contracts require more frequent or extensive care than anticipated, we would incur unanticipated costs not offset by additional revenue, which would reduce operating margins.. 21. Changes in the method or rates of third-party reimbursement could have a negative impact on our results. From time to time, changes designed to contain healthcare costs have been implemented, some of which have resulted in decreased reimbursement rates for diagnostic imaging services that impact our business. For services for which we bill Medicare directly, we are paid under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, which is updated on an annual basis. Under the Medicare statutory formula, payments under the Physician Fee Schedule would have decreased for the past several years if Congress failed to intervene.. Medicare program reimbursements for physician services as well as other services to Medicare beneficiaries who are not enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans are based upon the fee-for-service rates set forth in the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule, which relies, in part, on a target-setting formula system called the Sustainable Growth Rate or SGR. Each year, on January 1st, the Medicare program updates the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule reimbursement rates. Many private payors use the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule to determine their own reimbursement rates.. On April 16, 2015, President Obama signed into law the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2), which provides for sweeping changes to how Medicare pays physicians, as well as averts the 21% reduction to Medicare payments under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule that was scheduled to take effect on April 1, 2016. H.R. 2, among other things, repealed the SGR formula. The SGR formula was enacted in 1997 and was linked to the growth in the U.S. gross domestic product, which led Congress to repeatedly intervene to mitigate the negative reimbursement impact associated with it. H.R. 2 provides that for services paid under the physician fee schedule and furnished during calendar years 2016 through 2019, Medicare’s payment rates will increase by 0.5% per year over calendar year 2015. Fees will remain at the 2019 level through 2025, but providers have the ability to participate in the Quality Payment Program (“QPP”) and have the opportunity for additional payments. Under one track, incentive payments will be based upon participating in an innovative payment model (e.g., participating in the Medicare Shared Savings Program), and under the other track, incentive payments will be based upon quality, resource use, clinical practice improvement activities and meaningful use of electronic health record technology. Given that the QPP remains under CMS’ continued development, we cannot determine the impact of such payments models on our business at this time. However, in general, shifting to value-based care may decrease our revenue and require us to invest heavily in new IT infrastructure and analytic tools.. In 2013, Congress adjusted Medicare payment rates for physician imaging services in an attempt to better reflect actual usage, by revising upward the assumed usage rate for diagnostic imaging equipment costing more than $1 million to 90% effective January, 1, 2014. Additionally, under the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (“PAMA”), Congress introduced a new quality incentive program that, effective January 1, 2016, reduces Medicare payment for certain CT services reimbursed through the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule that are furnished using equipment that does not meet certain dose optimization and management standards. Other changes in reimbursement for services rendered by Medicare Advantage plans may reduce the revenues we receive for services rendered to Medicare Advantage enrollees.. Pressure to control healthcare costs could have a negative impact on our results.. One of the principal objectives of health maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations is to control the cost of healthcare services. Healthcare providers participating in managed care plans may be required to refer diagnostic imaging tests to certain providers depending on the plan in which a covered patient is enrolled. In addition, managed care contracting has become very competitive, and reimbursement schedules are at or below Medicare reimbursement levels. The expansion of health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and other managed care organizations within the geographic areas covered by our network could have a negative impact on the utilization and pricing of our services, because these organizations will exert greater control over patients’ access to diagnostic imaging services, the selections of the provider of such services and reimbursement rates for those services.. We experience competition from other diagnostic imaging companies and hospitals, and this competition could adversely affect our revenue and business.. The market for diagnostic imaging services is highly competitive. We compete for patients principally on the basis of our reputation, our ability to provide multiple modalities at many of our facilities, the location of our facilities and the quality of our diagnostic imaging services. We compete locally with groups of radiologists, established hospitals, clinics and other independent organizations that own and operate imaging equipment. Our competitors include the privately held Alliance Healthcare Services, Inc., to the extent it sells diagnostic imaging services directly to outpatients, Diagnostic Imaging Group, and several smaller regional competitors. Some of our competitors may now or in the future have access to greater financial resources than we do and may have access to newer, more advanced equipment. In addition, some physician practices have established their own diagnostic imaging facilities within their group practices and compete with us. We are experiencing increased competition as a result of such activities, and if we are unable to successfully compete, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected.. 22. Our success depends in part on our key personnel and loss of key executives could adversely affect our operations. In addition, former employees and radiology practices we have previously contracted with could use the experience and relationships developed while employed or under contract with us to compete with us.. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and executive management, and managerial and technical personnel. Competition in recruiting these personnel may make it difficult for us to continue our growth and success. The loss of their services or our inability in the future to attract and retain management and other key personnel could hinder the implementation of our business strategy. The loss of the services of Dr. Howard G. Berger, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Norman R. Hames or Stephen M. Forthuber, our Chief Operating Officers, West Coast and East Coast, respectively, could have a significant negative impact on our operations. We believe that they could not easily be replaced with executives of equal experience and capabilities. We do not maintain key person insurance on the life of any of our executive officers. Additionally, if we lose the services of Dr. Berger, our relationship with BRMG could deteriorate, which would materially adversely affect our business.. Many of the states in which we operate do not enforce agreements that prohibit a former employee from competing with a former employer. As a result, many of our employees whose employment is terminated are free to compete with us, subject to prohibitions on the use of trade secret information and, depending on the terms of the employee’s employment agreement, on solicitation of existing employees and customers (if enforceable). A former executive, manager or other key employee who joins one of our competitors could use the relationships he or she established with third party payors, radiologists or referring physicians while our employee and the industry knowledge he or she acquired during that tenure to enhance the new employer’s ability to compete with us.. The agreements with most of our radiology practices contain non-compete provisions; however the enforceability of these provisions is determined by a court based on all the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. Our inability to enforce radiologists’ non-compete provisions could result in increased competition from individuals who are knowledgeable about our business strategies and operations.. Our failure to successfully, and in a timely manner, integrate similar businesses and/or new lines of businesses we acquire could reduce our profitability.. We may never realize expected synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects in connection with our acquisitions and joint ventures. We may not be able to capitalize on expected business opportunities, assumptions underlying estimates of expected cost savings may be inaccurate, or general industry and business conditions may deteriorate. In addition, integrating operations will require significant efforts and expenses on our part. Personnel may leave or be terminated because of an acquisition. Our management may have its attention diverted while trying to integrate an acquisition. If these factors limit our ability to integrate the operations of an acquisition successfully or on a timely basis, our expectations of future results of operations, including certain cost savings and synergies as a result of the acquisition, may not be met. In addition, our growth and operating strategies for a target’s business may be different from the strategies that the target company pursued prior to our acquisition. If our strategies are not the proper strategies, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the past we have acquired, and may again in the future acquire, companies that create a new line of business. The process of integrating the acquired business, technology, service and research and development component into our business and operations and entry into a new line of business in which we are inexperienced may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In developing a new line of business we may invest significant time and resources that take away the attention of management that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business which may affect our results of operations and we may not be able to take full advantage of the business opportunities available to us as we expand a new lines of business. In addition, there can be no assurance that our new lines of business will ultimately be successful. The failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 23. We may not be able to successfully grow our business, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Historically, we have experienced substantial growth through acquisitions that have increased our size, scope and geographic distribution. During the past two fiscal years, we have completed 8 acquisitions. These acquisitions have added 13 centers to our fixed-site outpatient diagnostic imaging services. Our ability to successfully expand through acquiring facilities, developing new facilities, adding equipment at existing facilities, and directly or indirectly entering into contractual relationships with high-quality radiology practices depends upon many factors, including our ability to:. ·     identify attractive and willing candidates for acquisitions;. ·     identify locations in existing or new markets for development of new     facilities;. ·     comply with legal requirements affecting our arrangements with contracted     radiology practices, including state prohibitions on fee-splitting, corporate practice of medicine and self-referrals;. ·     obtain regulatory approvals where necessary and comply with licensing     and certification requirements applicable to our diagnostic imaging facilities, the contracted radiology practices and the     physicians associated with the contracted radiology practices;. ·     recruit a sufficient number of qualified radiology technologists and     other non-medical personnel;. ·     expand our infrastructure and management; and. ·     compete for opportunities.. We may not be able to compete effectively for the acquisition of diagnostic imaging facilities. Our competitors may have more established operating histories and greater resources than we do. Competition may also make any acquisitions more expensive.. Managing our recent acquisitions, as well as any other future acquisitions, will entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:. ·     inability to obtain adequate financing;. ·     failure to achieve our targeted operating results;. ·     diversion of management’s attention and resources;. ·     failure to retain key personnel;. ·     difficulties in integrating new operations into our existing infrastructure;     and. ·     amortization or write-offs of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill.. If we are unable to successfully grow our business through acquisitions it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further we cannot ensure we will be able to receive the required regulatory approvals for any future acquisitions, expansions or replacements, and the failure to obtain these approvals could limit the market for our services and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have experienced operating losses in the past. If we are unable to continue to generate sufficient income, we may be unable to pay our obligations.. We had income before taxes of $26.4 million, $12.4 million, and $14.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 respectively. As of December 31, 2017, our equity was $69.9 million. As a whole, results have shown improvement over the past three years. However, if we cannot continue to generate income in sufficient amounts, we will not be able to pay our obligations as they become due, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness.. Our current substantial indebtedness and any future indebtedness we incur could adversely affect our financial condition. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2017, our total combined indebtedness of term loans, capital leases and notes payable, excluding discount on term loan debt, was $627.6 million, $620.3 million of which constituted first lien term loan indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could also:. ·     make it difficult for us to satisfy our payment obligations with respect to our outstanding     indebtedness;. ·     require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments     on our debt, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other     general corporate purposes;. ·     expose us to the risk of interest rate increases on our variable rate borrowings, including     borrowings under our new senior secured credit facilities;. ·     increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;. ·     limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry     in which we operate;. ·     place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;     and. ·     limit our ability to borrow additional funds on terms that are satisfactory to us or at     all.. We could be subject to tax audits, challenges to its tax positions, or adverse changes or interpretations of tax laws.. We are subject to federal and applicable state income tax laws and regulations. Income tax laws and regulations are often complex and require significant judgment in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. Our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Any audits or challenges of such determinations may adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation made significant changes to federal tax law, including the taxation of corporations, by, among other things, reducing the corporate income tax rate, disallowing certain deductions that had previously been allowed, and altering the expensing of capital expenditures. The implementation and evaluation of these changes may require significant judgment and substantial planning. These judgments and plans may require the US to take new and different tax positions that if challenged could adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition.. In addition, the new tax legislation remains subject to potential amendments, technical corrections, and further regulatory guidance and interpretation, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts on us. Furthermore, as the new tax legislation goes into effect, future changes may occur at the federal or state level that could result in unfavorable adjustments to our tax liability.. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and reduce out operating cash flows.. We have incurred significant indebtedness that accrues interest at variable rate borrowing and we may incur additional debt in the future. Increases in interest rates on our current outstanding debt or any other debt we may incur will reduce our operating cash flows and if we need to repay any of our variable rate borrowing during period of high interest rates, we could be required to forgo other opportunities in order to repay the debt which may not permit us to realize future earnings of those forgone opportunities. To mitigate this risk, we have entered into an interest rate cap contract on our term loan debt facilities. See note 8 in the notes to financial statements contained herein.. 25. We may not be able to finance future needs or adapt our business plan to changes because of restrictions placed on us by our credit facilities and instruments governing our other indebtedness.. Our credit facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants which restrict, among other things, our ability to:. ·     pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments or investments;. ·     incur additional indebtedness and certain disqualified equity interests;. ·     create liens (other than permitted liens) securing indebtedness or trade payables;. ·     sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies or otherwise dispose of all or     substantially all of our assets;. ·     enter into certain transactions with affiliates;. ·     create restrictions on dividends or other payments by our restricted subsidiaries; and. ·     create guarantees of indebtedness by restricted subsidiaries.. All of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. A failure to comply with these covenants and restrictions would permit the relevant creditors to declare all amounts borrowed under the applicable agreement governing such indebtedness, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable. If the indebtedness under our credit facilities is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under the credit facilities or on other indebtedness then outstanding.. A restriction in our ability to make capital expenditures would restrict our growth and could adversely affect our business.. We operate in a capital intensive, high fixed-cost industry that requires significant amounts of capital to fund operations, particularly the initial start-up and development expenses of new diagnostic imaging facilities and the acquisition of additional facilities and new diagnostic imaging equipment. We incur capital expenditures to, among other things, upgrade and replace equipment for existing facilities and expand within our existing markets and enter new markets. If we open or acquire additional imaging facilities, we may have to incur material capital lease obligations. To the extent we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operations, funds are not available from our lenders or we are unable to structure or obtain financing through operating leases, long-term installment notes or capital leases, we may be unable to meet our capital expenditure requirements to support the maintenance and continued growth of our operations.. We may be impacted by eligibility changes to government and private insurance programs.. Due to potential decreased availability of healthcare through private employers, the number of patients who are uninsured or participate in governmental programs may increase. Healthcare reform legislation will increase the participation of individuals in the Medicaid program in states that elect to participate in the expanded Medicaid coverage. A shift in payor mix from managed care and other private payors to government payors as well as an increase in the number of uninsured patients may result in a reduction in the rates of reimbursement or an increase in uncollectible receivables or uncompensated care, with a corresponding decrease in net revenue. Changes in the eligibility requirements for governmental programs such as the Medicaid program and state decisions on whether to participate in the expansion of such programs also could increase the number of patients who participate in such programs and the number of uninsured patients. Even for those patients who remain in private insurance plans, changes to those plans could increase patient financial responsibility, resulting in a greater risk of uncollectible receivables. Furthermore, additional changes to, or repeal of, the PPACA under the Trump Administration may also affect reimbursement and coverage in ways that are currently unpredictable. These factors and events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting that may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, or otherwise adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2017, we have identified a material weakness in internal controls with respect to our processes surrounding the occurrence and measurement of revenue and valuation of accounts receivable. See Item 9 for further information.. 26. The regulatory framework in which we operate is uncertain and evolving.. Although we believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable federal and state laws, neither our current or anticipated business operations nor the operations of the contracted radiology practices have been the subject of judicial or regulatory interpretation. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities will not result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations or that the healthcare regulatory environment will not change in a way that restricts our operations. In addition, healthcare laws and regulations may change significantly in the future. We continuously monitor these developments and modify our operations from time to time as the regulatory environment changes. We cannot assure you however, that we will be able to adapt our operations to address new regulations or that new regulations will not adversely affect our business.. Certain states have enacted statutes or adopted regulations affecting risk assumption in the healthcare industry, including statutes and regulations that subject any physician or physician network engaged in risk-based managed care contracting to applicable insurance laws and regulations. These laws and regulations, if adopted in the states in which we operate, may require physicians and physician networks to meet minimum capital requirements and other safety and soundness requirements. Implementing additional regulations or compliance requirements could result in substantial costs to us and the contracted radiology practices and limit our ability to enter into capitation or other risk-sharing managed care arrangements.. State and federal anti-kickback and anti-self-referral laws may adversely affect income.. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among healthcare providers. The federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. Similarly, many state laws prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. Violation of these Anti-Kickback Laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities and/or exclusion from federal or state healthcare programs. We believe we are operating in compliance with applicable law and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the Anti-Kickback Laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations.. Federal law prohibiting physician self-referrals, known as the Stark Law, prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to an entity for certain “designated health services” if the physician has a prohibited financial relationship with that entity, unless an exception applies. Certain radiology services are considered “designated health services” under the Stark Law. Although we believe our operations do not violate the Stark Law, our activities may be challenged. If a challenge to our activities is successful, it could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, legislation may be enacted in the future that further addresses Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse or that imposes additional requirements or burdens on us.. In addition, under the DRA, states enacting false claims statutes similar to the federal False Claims Act, which establish liability for submission of fraudulent claims to the State Medicaid program and contain qui tam or whistleblower provisions, receive an increased percentage of any recovery from a State Medicaid judgment or settlement. Adoption of new false claims statutes in states where we operate may impose additional requirements or burdens on us.. Federal and state privacy and information security laws are complex, and if we fail to comply with applicable laws, regulations and standards, or if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data, protect our proprietary rights to our systems, or defend against cybersecurity attacks, we may be subject to government or private actions due to privacy and security breaches, and our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We must comply with numerous federal and state laws and regulations governing the collection, dissemination, access, use, security and privacy of PHI, including HIPAA and its implementing privacy and security regulations, as amended by the federal HITECH Act and collectively referred to as HIPAA. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations and standards, properly maintain the integrity of our data, protect our proprietary rights to our systems, or defend against cybersecurity attacks, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct our operations, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign state agents. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer systems and networks.. 27. We are continuously implementing multiple layers of security measures through technology, processes, and our people; utilize current security technologies; and our defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. Despite these efforts, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents; security attacks and breaches; acts of vandalism or theft; computer viruses; coordinated attacks by activist entities; emerging cybersecurity risks; misplaced or lost data; programming and/or human errors; or other similar events. Emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations.. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information, including protected health information, financial data, competitively sensitive information, or other proprietary data, whether by us or a third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of data, cessations in the availability of systems or liability under privacy and security laws, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and harm our business reputation. If we are unable to protect the physical and electronic security and privacy of our databases and transactions, we could be subject to potential liability and regulatory action, our reputation and relationships with our patients and vendors would be harmed, and our business, operations, and financial results may be materially adversely affected. Failure to adequately protect and maintain the integrity of our information systems (including our networks) and data, or to defend against cybersecurity attacks, could subject us to monetary fines, civil suits, civil penalties or criminal sanctions and requirements to disclose the breach publicly, and may further result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Complying with federal and state regulations is an expensive and time-consuming process, and any failure to comply could result in substantial penalties.. We are directly or indirectly, through the radiology practices with which we contract, subject to extensive regulation by both the federal government and the state governments in which we provide services, including:. ·     the federal False Claims Act;. ·     the federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback Laws, and state anti-kickback     prohibitions;. ·     federal and state billing and claims submission laws and regulations;. ·     the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996,     as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and comparable state laws;. ·     the federal physician self-referral prohibition commonly known as the     Stark Law and the state equivalent of the Stark Law;. ·     state laws that prohibit the practice of medicine by non-physicians and     prohibit fee-splitting arrangements involving physicians;. ·     federal and state laws governing the diagnostic imaging and therapeutic     equipment we use in our business concerning patient safety, equipment operating specifications and radiation exposure levels;     and. ·     state laws governing reimbursement for diagnostic services related to     services compensable under workers compensation rules.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we or the radiology practices with which we contract are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines or curtailment of our operations, individually or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risks of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action brought against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business.. 28. If we fail to comply with various licensure, certification and accreditation standards, we may be subject to loss of licensure, certification or accreditation, which would adversely affect our operations.. Ownership, construction, operation, expansion and acquisition of our diagnostic imaging facilities are subject to various federal and state laws, regulations and approvals concerning licensing of personnel, other required certificates for certain types of healthcare facilities and certain medical equipment. In addition, freestanding diagnostic imaging facilities that provide services independent of a physician’s office must be enrolled by Medicare as an independent diagnostic treatment facility, or IDTF, to bill the Medicare program. Medicare carriers have discretion in applying the IDTF requirements and therefore the application of these requirements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition, federal legislation requires all suppliers that provide the technical component of diagnostic MRI, PET/CT, CT, and nuclear medicine to be accredited by an accreditation organization designated by CMS (which currently include the American College of Radiology (ACR), the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission (IAC) and the Joint Commission). Our MRI, CT, nuclear medicine, ultrasound and mammography facilities are currently accredited by the American College of Radiology. We may not be able to receive the required regulatory approvals or accreditation for any future acquisitions, expansions or replacements, and the failure to obtain these approvals could limit the opportunity to expand our services.. Our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by governmental and other authorities to assure continued compliance with the various standards necessary for licensure and certification. If any facility loses its certification under the Medicare program, then the facility will be ineligible to receive reimbursement from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 23% of our net service fee revenue before provision for bad debt came from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A change in the applicable certification status of one of our facilities could adversely affect our other facilities and in turn us as a whole. Credentialing of physicians is required by our payors prior to commencing payment. We have experienced a slowdown in the credentialing of our physicians over the last several years which has lengthened our billing and collection cycle, and could negatively impact our ability to collect revenue from patients covered by Medicare.. Our agreements with the contracted radiology practices must be structured to avoid the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting.. State law prohibits us from exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians and from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as splitting professional fees with physicians. These laws are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. A component of our business has been to enter into management agreements with radiology practices. We provide management, administrative, technical and other non-medical services to the radiology practices in exchange for a service fee typically based on a percentage of the practice’s revenue. We structure our relationships with the radiology practices, including the purchase of diagnostic imaging facilities, in a manner that we believe keeps us from engaging in the practice of medicine or exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of the radiology practices or their physicians, or violating the prohibitions against fee-splitting. There can be no assurance that our present arrangements with BRMG or the physicians providing medical services and medical supervision at our imaging facilities will not be challenged, and, if challenged, that they will not be found to violate the corporate practice of medicine or fee splitting prohibitions, thus subjecting us to potential damages, injunction and/or civil and criminal penalties or require us to restructure our arrangements in a way that would affect the control or quality of our services and/or change the amounts we receive under our management agreements. Any of these results could jeopardize our business.. Some of our imaging modalities use radioactive materials, which generate regulated waste and could subject us to liabilities for injuries or violations of environmental and health and safety laws.. Some of our imaging procedures use radioactive materials, which generate medical and other regulated wastes. For example, patients are injected with a radioactive substance before undergoing a PET scan. Storage, use and disposal of these materials and waste products present the risk of accidental environmental contamination and physical injury. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could incur significant costs and the diversion of our management’s attention in order to comply with current or future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Also, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these hazardous materials. Although we maintain professional liability insurance coverage in amounts we believe is consistent with industry practice in the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside the coverage of our professional liability insurance.. 29. Technological change in our industry could reduce the demand for our services and require us to incur significant costs to upgrade our equipment.. The development of new technologies or refinements of existing modalities may require us to upgrade and enhance our existing equipment before we may otherwise intend. Many companies currently manufacture diagnostic imaging equipment. Competition among manufacturers for a greater share of the diagnostic imaging equipment market may result in technological advances in the speed and imaging capacity of new equipment. This may accelerate the obsolescence of our equipment, and we may not have the financial ability to acquire the new or improved equipment and may not be able to maintain a competitive equipment base. In addition, advances in technology may enable physicians and others to perform diagnostic imaging procedures without us. If we are unable to deliver our services in the efficient and effective manner that payors, physicians and patients expect our revenue could substantially decrease.. Because we have high fixed costs, lower scan volumes per system could adversely affect our business.. The principal components of our expenses, excluding depreciation, consist of debt service, capital lease payments, compensation paid to technologists, salaries, real estate lease expenses and equipment maintenance costs. Because a majority of these expenses are fixed, a relatively small change in our revenue could have a disproportionate effect on our operating and financial results depending on the source of our revenue. Thus, decreased revenue as a result of lower scan volumes per system could result in lower margins, which could materially adversely affect our business.. We may be unable to effectively maintain our equipment or generate revenue when our equipment is not operational.. Timely, effective service is essential to maintaining our reputation and high use rates on our imaging equipment. Although we have an agreement with GE Medical Systems pursuant to which it maintains and repairs the majority of our imaging equipment, this agreement does not compensate us for loss of revenue when our systems are not fully operational and our business interruption insurance may not provide sufficient coverage for the loss of revenue. Also, GE Medical Systems may not be able to perform repairs or supply needed parts in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of revenue. Therefore, if we experience more equipment malfunctions than anticipated or if we are unable to promptly obtain the service necessary to keep our equipment functioning effectively, our ability to provide services would be adversely affected and our revenue could decline.. Disruption or malfunction in our information systems could adversely affect our business.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. A significant portion of the communication between personnel, customers, business partners, and suppliers depends on information technology. We rely on our information systems to perform functions critical to our ability to operate, including patient scheduling, billing, collections, image storage and image transmission. We also use information technology systems and networks in our operations and supporting departments such as marketing, accounting, finance, and human resources. The future success and growth of our business depends on streamlined processes made available through information systems, global communications, internet activity and other network processes.. Despite our current security measures, our information technology systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to information security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses and interruption or loss of valuable business data. Our information technology system is vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. ·     earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters;. ·     power losses, computer systems failures, internet and telecommunications     or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic     losses of data and similar events; and. ·     computer viruses, penetration by hackers seeking to disrupt operations     or misappropriate information and other breaches of security.. We have technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate our risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to ensure that our operations are not disrupted or that data security breaches do not occur.. We could face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet or to introduce malicious software to our information technology systems. If a malicious hacker gained unauthorized access to our systems and network, it could have a material adverse impact on our business or operations. Such incidents, whether or not successful, could result in our incurring significant costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. In addition, these threats are constantly changing, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventive measures. Accordingly, an extended interruption in our information technology system’s function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue.. 30. If our network was compromised, it could give rise to unwanted media attention, materially damage our payor and physician relationships, harm our business, reputation, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, result in fines or lawsuits, and may increase the costs we incur to protect against such information security breaches, such as increased investment in technology, the costs of compliance with consumer protection laws and costs resulting from consumer fraud. While we maintain cyber liability insurance, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect against all losses we may incur if we suffer significant or multiple attacks.. Adverse changes in general domestic and worldwide economic conditions and instability and disruption of credit markets could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity.. We are subject to risk arising from adverse changes in general domestic and global economic conditions, including recession or economic slowdown and disruption of credit markets. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the United States economy. The United States and other western countries have responded to this economic situation by exercising monetary policy to keep interest rates low. Any significant change in economic conditions or change in fiscal monetary policy could result in material changes in interest rates.. Continued turbulence in domestic and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our patients. If these market conditions continue, they may increase expenses associated with borrowing, limit our ability and the ability of our patients, to timely replace maturing liabilities, and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. Budget decisions by the California State Legislature could have an impact on our revenue.. 132 of our 297 facilities are located in California and one to one-and-one-half percent (1% to 1.5%) of our revenues come from the California Medicaid program. To the extent California is unable to provide these payments on a timely basis, or at all, our revenues will be negatively impacted.. We are vulnerable to earthquakes, harsh weather and other natural disasters.. Our corporate headquarters and 132 of our facilities are located in California, an area prone to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Several of our facilities are located in areas of Florida and the east coast that have suffered from hurricanes and other harsh weather, including winter snow storms that have in the past caused us to close our facilities. An earthquake, harsh weather conditions or other natural disaster could decrease scan volume during affected periods and seriously impair our operations. Damage to our equipment or interruption of our business would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Possible volatility in our stock price could negatively affect us and our stockholders.. The trading price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market has fluctuated significantly in the past. During the period from January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017, the trading price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $11.90 per share to a low of $4.66 per share. In the past, we have experienced a drop in stock price following an announcement of disappointing earnings or earnings guidance. Any such announcement in the future could lead to a similar drop in stock price. The price of our common stock could also be subject to wide fluctuations in the future as a result of a number of other factors, including the following:. ·     changes in expectations as to future financial performance or buy/sell     recommendations of securities analysts;. ·     our, or a competitor’s, announcement of new services, or significant     acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and. ·     the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies.. 31. In addition, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Broad market and industry factors may lead to volatility in the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Moreover, our stock has limited trading volume, and this illiquidity may increase the volatility of our stock price.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of an individual company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been instituted against that company. The institution of similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of us.. In the future, we could become the subject of an unsolicited attempted takeover of our company. Although an unsolicited takeover could be in the best interests of our stockholders, our organizational documents and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware both contain provisions that will impede the removal of directors and may discourage a third-party from making a proposal to acquire us. For example, the provisions:. ·     permit the board of directors to increase its own size, within the maximum     limitations set forth in the bylaws, and fill the resulting vacancies;. ·     authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock in one or more series     without a stockholder vote;. ·     establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be     brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to the board     of directors; and. ·     prohibit transfers and/or acquisitions of stock (without consent of the     Board of Directors ) that would result in any stockholder owning greater than 5% of the currently outstanding stock resulting     in a limitation on net operating loss carryovers, capital loss carryovers, general business credit carryovers, alternative     minimum tax credit carryovers and foreign tax credit carryovers, as well as any loss or deduction attributable to a “net     unrealized built-in loss” within the meaning of Section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended.. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control."
