[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Before deciding to invest in us or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report, including the financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this report and the matters addressed in the section of this report titled \"Special Note Regarding Forward- Looking Statements\". The events discussed below could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. We may not be able to implement our strategic plan.. We believe that we have built an infrastructure for future growth and that our initial public offering and the acquisition of First Eastern Bankshares Corporation enable us to generate additional revenues. If we are not successful in generating additional revenues, we may not be able to improve profitability. In addition, we expect to incur expenses related to the implementation of our strategic plan, including branch expansion, hiring initiatives, and the development and marketing of new products and services. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic plan, and therefore may not operate at a profit or improve profitability in the timeframe that we expect or at all.. The successful implementation of our strategic plan will require, among other things, that we increase our market share by attracting new customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market area or adjacent markets. In addition, our ability to successfully grow will depend on several factors, including favorable market conditions, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area, and our ability to maintain high asset quality as we increase our loan portfolio. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, growth opportunities may not be available, and we may not be successful in implementing our business strategy. Further, it will take time to implement our business strategy, especially for our lenders to originate enough loans and for our branches to attract enough deposits to generate the revenue needed to offset the associated expenses. Our strategic plan, even if successfully implemented, may not ultimately produce positive results.. We have incurred operating losses in several recent years and our ability to generate future profitability is uncertain.. We incurred a loss of $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, and experienced losses in four of the five most recent fiscal years. Our ability to achieve future profitability depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to successfully implement our strategic plan and expand our mortgage banking business, our ability to manage nonperforming and classified assets, general economic conditions, competition with other financial institutions, changes to the interest rate environment that may reduce our profit margins or impair our business strategy, adverse changes in the securities markets, changes in laws or government regulations, changes in consumer spending, borrowing, or saving, and changes in accounting policies, as well as other risks and uncertainties described in this \"Risk Factors\" section. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our business, we are unable to predict the extent of our future profitability.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. At December 31, 2017, one- to four-family residential loans comprised $198.5 million, or 49.3%, of our total loan portfolio, and home equity loans and lines of credit comprised $39.0 million, or 9.7%, of our total loan portfolio. One- to four-family residential mortgage lending, whether owner occupied or non-owner occupied, is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential mortgages to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.. Residential loans with combined higher loan-to-value ratios are more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, they may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. Further, a significant amount of our home equity loans and lines of credit consist of second mortgage loans. For those home equity loans and lines of credit secured by a second mortgage, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or a portion of our loan proceeds in the event of default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage loan and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property.   For these reasons, we may experience higher rates of delinquencies, default and losses on our home equity loans.. 28. We are focused on growing our loan portfolio. Commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction loans generally carry greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one- to four-family real estate, and these risks will increase if we succeed in our plan to increase these types of loans.. At December 31, 2017, $148.9 million, or 36.9%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction loans. Given their larger balances and the complexity of the underlying collateral, commercial real estate, commercial and industrial loans, and construction loans generally expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by owner occupied one- to four-family real estate. Also, many of our borrowers or related groups of borrowers have more than one of these types of loans outstanding. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential real estate loan. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons:. •  commercial real estate loans  -  repayment is generally dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service;. •  commercial and industrial loans  -  repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business; and. •  construction loans  -  repayment is dependent upon completion, the ability of the owner to make payments during the construction process, and the subsequent ability of the owner to either sell the completed project or obtain permanent financing on the completed project.. If loans that are collateralized by real estate or other business assets become troubled and the value of the collateral has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could cause us to increase our provision for loan losses which would in turn adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Further, if we foreclose on the collateral, our holding period for the collateral may be longer than for one- to four-family real estate loans because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral, which can result in substantial holding costs.. Our loan portfolio contains a significant portion of loans that are unseasoned. It is difficult to judge the future performance of unseasoned loans.. Our net loan portfolio has grown to $400.4 million at December 31, 2017 from $333.0 million at December 31, 2016, $285.2 million at December 31, 2015, and $249.0 million at December 31, 2014. In 2017, 2016, and 2015, as part of our strategy to focus a greater proportion of our interest-earning assets on loans, we grew our residential mortgage loans (first mortgages and home equity loans and lines of credit) by $23.0 million, $14.7 million (including loans acquired in our acquisition of First Eastern Bankshares Corporation) and $22.2 million, respectively. In addition, our commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction loans increased $34.8 million, or 30.5%, in 2017, $29.3 million, or 34.6%, in 2016; and $12.0 million, or 16.5%, in 2015. It is difficult to assess the future performance of these loans recently added to our portfolio because our relatively limited experience with such loans does not provide us with a significant payment history from which to judge future collectability. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than our historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital could decrease.. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $3.7 million, which represented 0.92% of total loans and 165.9% of our non-performing loans. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate other factors including, among other things, current economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, or if delinquencies or non-performing loans increase, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, which would require additions to our allowance, which could materially affect our operating results.. In addition, our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to income, or to charge off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 29. The building of market share through branch relocations, de novo branching and expansion of our commercial lending capacity could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues.. We intend to continue to build market share through branch relocations, de novo branching and the expansion of our commercial lending capacity. There can be considerable costs involved in opening branches and expanding our lending capacity that generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any such business expansion can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until certain economies of scale are reached. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, our business expansion may not be successful after establishment.. Loss of deposits or a change in deposit mix could increase our cost of funding.. Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding.  We compete with banks and other financial intermediaries for deposits. Funding costs may increase if we lose deposits and are forced to replace them with more expensive sources of funding, if clients shift their deposits into higher cost products or if we need to raise interest rates to avoid losing deposits.  Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin, net interest income and profitability.. Our wholesale funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth.. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to deposits and funds from the repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we may become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, brokered deposits, listing service deposits, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, and proceeds from the sale of loans. At December 31, 2017, we had $76.0 million of Federal Home Loan Bank advances outstanding with an additional $67.6 million available borrowing capacity, no borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston outstanding with $245,000 of available borrowing capacity and $3.5 million of available borrowing capacity under a line of credit with a correspondent bank. Brokered deposits as of December 31, 2017 totaled $7.1 million. If we were no longer considered to be \"well capitalized,\" as defined by applicable federal regulations, it would materially restrict our ability to acquire and retain brokered deposits in the future and could reduce the maximum borrowing limits we currently have available through the Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Additionally, adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected.. Changes in interest rates may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates as well as the relative changes in both short and long-term rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted-average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted-average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control.. While we pursue an asset/liability strategy designed to mitigate our risk from changes in interest rates, changes in interest rates may still have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets, and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings.. Our mortgage banking revenue and the value of our mortgage servicing rights can be volatile.. We sell in the secondary market longer term, conforming fixed-rate and adjustable rate residential mortgage loans that we originate, which provides a significant portion of our noninterest income in the form of gains on the sale of mortgage loans. We also earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. As a result of our mortgage servicing business, we have a sizeable portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage servicing right is the right to service a mortgage loan  -  collect principal, interest, and escrow amounts  -  for a fee. We acquire mortgage servicing rights when we keep the servicing rights after we sell the loans we have originated.. 30. Changes in interest rates may impact our mortgage banking revenues, which could negatively impact our noninterest income. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing loan origination volume and the related amount of gains on the sales of loans. Under the same conditions, net revenue from our mortgage servicing activities can increase due to slower prepayments, which reduces our amortization expense for mortgage servicing rights. When rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and the value of our mortgage servicing rights usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act as a \"natural hedge,\" the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights is generally immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the mortgage servicing rights relating to the new loans would generally accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall or remain low, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the mortgage servicing rights value caused by the lower rates.. In addition, our results of operations are affected by the amount of non-interest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, equipment and data processing expense, and other operating costs. During periods of reduced loan demand, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to reduce expenses commensurate with the decline in mortgage loan origination activity.. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy.. While there is not a single employer or industry in our market area on which a significant number of our customers are dependent, a substantial portion of our loan portfolio is composed of loans secured by property located in eastern Massachusetts and Rhode Island. This makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy and real estate markets. Adverse conditions in the local economy, such as unemployment, recession, a catastrophic event, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which could impact our net interest income. Decreases in local real estate values caused by economic conditions or other events could adversely affect the value of the property used as collateral for our loans, which could cause us to realize a loss in the event of a foreclosure.. Our cost of operations is high relative to our assets. Our failure to maintain or reduce our operating expenses could hurt our operating results.. Our non-interest expenses totaled $29.8 million and $27.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We continue to analyze our expenses and seek to achieve efficiencies where available. Although we strive to generate increases in both net interest income and non-interest income, our efficiency ratio remains high. Our efficiency ratio totaled 107.0% and 97.9% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Failure to control or maintain our expenses could hurt future profitability.. Changes in the valuation of our securities could adversely affect us.. All securities in our portfolio are classified as available-for-sale. Accordingly, a decline in the fair value of our securities could cause a material decline in our reported equity and/or operating results. At least quarterly, and more frequently when warranted by economic or market conditions, management evaluates all securities classified as available-for-sale with a decline in fair value below the amortized cost of the investment to determine whether the impairment is deemed to be other-than-temporary, or OTTI. Marketable equity securities are evaluated for OTTI based on the severity and duration of the impairment and, if deemed to be other than temporary, the declines in fair value are reflected in earnings as realized losses. For impaired debt securities that are intended to be sold, or more likely than not will be required to be sold, the full amount of market decline is recognized as OTTI through earnings. Credit-related OTTI for all other impaired debt securities is recognized through earnings. Non-credit related OTTI for such debt securities is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes. A decline in the market value of our securities portfolio could adversely affect our earnings.. We depend on our management team to implement our business strategy and we could be harmed by the loss of their services.. We are dependent upon the services of the members of our senior management team who direct our strategy and operations. Members of our senior management team, and lending specialists who possess expertise in our markets and key business relationships, could be difficult to replace. Our loss of these persons, or our inability to hire additional qualified personnel, could impact our ability to implement our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to compete in our markets.. 31. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth.. We face intense competition in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits sometimes results in us charging lower interest rates on our loans and paying higher interest rates on our deposits and may reduce our net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. Many of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We also face competition from other financial service providers, such as mortgage companies and mortgage brokers. Competition for loans also comes from nondepository financial service companies entering the mortgage market, such as insurance companies, securities companies, and specialty finance companies. Competition in mortgage banking comes from traditional mortgage competitors within our market area as well as larger, nationally active mortgage originators. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected. The greater resources and broader offering of deposit and loan products of some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets.. Our banking business is highly regulated, and laws and regulations, or changes in them, could limit or restrict our activities and could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, and Envision Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and the FDIC. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters affecting us, including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits, and restrictions on dividend payments. The FDIC and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks have the power to issue cease and desist orders to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulation, and the Federal Reserve possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These and other restrictions limit the manner in which we and Envision Bank may conduct business and obtain financing.. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations, and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to capital and liquidity standards that require banks and bank holding companies to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case.. We became subject to new capital requirements in 2015. These new standards, which now apply and will be fully phased-in over the next several years, force bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially higher levels of capital as a percentage of their assets, with a greater emphasis on common equity as opposed to other components of capital. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, and generally increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to capital levels, may at some point limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand. It could also result in our being required to take steps to increase our regulatory capital and may dilute shareholder value or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to our investors through stock repurchases.. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose community investment and nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations.  A successful regulatory challenge to an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act or other fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines.  Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.  Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 32. We face continuing and growing security risks to our information base, including the information we maintain relating to our customers.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on electronic communications and information systems to conduct our business and to store sensitive data, including financial information regarding customers. Our electronic communications and information systems infrastructure, as well as the systems infrastructures of the vendors we use to meet our data processing and communication needs, could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and we may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. No matter how well designed or implemented our controls are, we will not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types, and we may not be able to implement effective preventive measures against such security breaches in a timely manner. A failure or circumvention of our security systems could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition.. We regularly assess and test our security systems and disaster preparedness, including back-up systems, but the risks are substantially escalating. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued enhancement of our controls and processes to protect our systems, data and networks from attacks, unauthorized access or significant damage remain a priority. Accordingly, we may be required to expend additional resources to enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or exposures. Any breach of our system security could result in disruption of our operations, unauthorized access to confidential customer information, significant regulatory costs, litigation exposure and other possible damages, loss or liability. Such costs or losses could exceed the amount of available insurance coverage, if any, and would adversely affect our earnings. Also, any failure to prevent a security breach or to quickly and effectively deal with such a breach could negatively impact customer confidence, damaging our reputation and undermining our ability to attract and keep customers.. We may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect our business operations and profitability.. We invest significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level. We may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, which could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and suspension of trading in our stock, among others. In addition, future system enhancements could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations.. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, we may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time.. Natural disasters, acts of terrorism and other external events could harm our business.. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant natural disaster, such as a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate for losses that may occur. Acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest, violence or human error could cause disruptions to our business or the economy as a whole. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third-party vendors provide key components of our business infrastructure, such as internet connections, network access, and core application processing. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their. 33. services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and effectively. Replacing these third-party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include:. •  quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our assets;. •  operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;. •  changes in expectations as to our future financial performance;. •  announcements of innovations, new products, strategic developments, significant contracts, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors;. •  the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us;. •  our future dividend practices;. •  future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; and. •  changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility.. Our low return on equity could negatively affect the trading price of our shares of common stock.. Net income divided by average equity, known as \"return on equity,\" is a ratio many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had a return on average equity of (2.5)%, which is lower than our peers. We expect our return on equity to remain relatively low until we are able to leverage the additional capital we received from the initial public offering. Although we have increased net interest income using proceeds of the initial public offering, our return on equity is reduced by higher expenses from the costs of being a public company, and added expenses associated with our employee stock ownership plan and stock-based benefit plan. Until we can increase our net interest income and noninterest income, our return on equity may reduce the value of our shares of common stock.. Our stock-based benefit plans have increased our costs, which will reduce our profitability.. Our employee stock ownership plan purchased 8.0% of the total shares of common stock solid in the initial public offering and contributed to our charitable foundation, with funds borrowed from Randolph Bancorp, Inc. We record annual employee stock ownership plan expense in an amount equal to the fair value of shrews of common stock committed to be released to employees. If shares of common stock appreciate in value over time, compensation expense relating to the employee stock ownership plan will increase.. We also adopted a stock-based benefit plan, which allows us to award participants restricted shares of our common stock (at no cost to them) and/or grant options to purchase shares of our common stock. The issuance of restricted stock or granting stock options result in increased compensation expense to us, which reduces profitability.. Our articles of organization and bylaws and certain regulations may prevent or make more difficult to pursue certain transactions, including a sale or merger of Randolph Bancorp, Inc.. Provisions of our articles of organization and bylaws, state corporate law, and federal and state banking regulations may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Randolph Bancorp, Inc. Consequently, our shareholders may not have the opportunity to participate in such a transaction and the trading price of our common stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers.. Provisions of our articles of organization, bylaws, and state corporate law that may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that the board of directors opposes include:. •  supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and changes to some provisions of the articles of organization and bylaws;. 34. •  a limitation on the right to vote shares;. •  the election of directors to staggered terms of three years;. •  the removal of directors only for cause;. •  the absence of cumulative voting by shareholders in the election of directors;. •  provisions restricting the calling of special meetings of shareholders; and. •  provisions regarding the timing and content of shareholder proposals and nominations.. In addition, Massachusetts banking regulations prohibit, for three years following the completion of a mutual-to-stock conversion, the offer to acquire or the acquisition of more than 10.0% of any class of equity security of a converted institution without the prior approval of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. Additional state corporate law and federal banking regulations place limitations on the acquisition of certain percentages of our common stock and impose restrictions on these significant shareholders.. Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates, which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future.. Pursuant to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining loan loss reserves and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer losses.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, and report the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk, and liquidity risk. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected."
