[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in the course of our business. The following summarizes the known material risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. When considering an investment in our securities, you should carefully consider the risk factors included below as well as those matters referenced in foregoing pages under \"Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" and other information included and incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial.. Risks Related to Our Business. Volatility of natural gas, NGLs and oil prices significantly affects our cash flow and capital resources and could hamper our ability to operate economically. Natural gas, NGLs and oil prices are volatile, and a decline in prices adversely affects our profitability and financial condition. The oil and gas industry is typically cyclical and we expect the volatility to continue. Between 2014 and 2017, the average NYMEX monthly settlement price of natural gas has been as high as $5.56 per Mmbtu and as low as $1.71 per Mmbtu. During that same time frame, the average NYMEX monthly oil settlement price was as high as $105.15 per barrel and as low as $30.62 per barrel. Over the past few months, natural gas and oil prices have increased with the average NYMEX monthly settlement price for natural gas for February 2018 increasing to $3.63 per Mmbtu and the monthly settlement for crude oil increasing to $63.66 per barrel in January 2018. Likewise, NGLs have suffered significant recent declines in realized prices. NGLs are made up of ethane, propane, isobutane, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, which adds further volatility to the pricing of NGLs. A further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Natural gas prices are likely to affect us more than oil prices because approximately 67% of our December 31, 2017 proved reserves are natural gas.. Natural gas, NGLs and oil prices fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control. Long-term supply and demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil is uncertain and subject to a myriad of factors such as:. •  the domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, natural gas, NGLs and oil;. •  domestic and world-wide economic conditions;. •  the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including commodity price speculators and others;. •  weather conditions;. •  technological advances affecting energy consumption and production;. •  the price and level of foreign imports;. •  U.S. domestic and worldwide economic conditions;. •  the availability, proximity and capacity of transportation facilities, processing and storage facilities;. •  the effect of worldwide energy conservation efforts;. •  the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other exporting nations that work together to agree and maintain oil price and production controls;. •  expansion of U.S. exports of oil, NGLs and/or liquefied natural gas;. •  military, economic and political conditions in natural gas and oil producing regions;. •  the cost of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting and marketing natural gas, NGLs and oil: and. •  domestic (federal, state and local) and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.. Lower natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may not only decrease our revenues and cash flow on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of natural gas, NGLs and oil that we can economically produce. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require a reduction in capital spending or require additional borrowing. Without the ability to fund capital expenditures, we would be unable to replace reserves which would negatively affect our future rate of growth. Lower natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may also result in a reduction in the borrowing base under our bank credit facility, taking into account the value of our estimated proved reserves, which is adversely affected by declines in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices. The borrowing base under our bank credit facility, which is determined by our lenders at their discretion, is subject to redetermination annually by each May and for event driven unscheduled redeterminations.. Producing natural gas, NGLs and oil may involve unprofitable efforts. As of December 31, 2017, the relationship between the price of oil and the price of natural gas continues to be at a wide spread. Normally, NGLs production is a by-product of natural gas. 26. production. At times, we and other producers may choose to sell natural gas at below cost, or otherwise dispose of natural gas to allow for the profitable sale of only oil, NGLs and condensate. The prices of NGLs can be unpredictable. For example, over the past four years, the average Mont Belvieu NGL composite price has been as high as $0.98 per gallon and as low as $0.30 per gallon. Such volatility in the pricing of NGLs complicates such decisions and may materially and adversely affect the profitability of such decisions.. Information concerning our reserves and future net cash flow estimates is uncertain. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves and their values, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of proved reserves are by their nature uncertain and depend on many assumptions relating to current and further economic conditions and commodity prices. To the extent we experience a sustained period of reduced commodity prices, there is a risk that a portion of our proved reserves could be deemed uneconomic and no longer be classified as proved. Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material.. Reserve estimation is a subjective process that involves estimating volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of natural gas and oil that cannot be directly measured. As a result, different petroleum engineers, each using industry-accepted geologic and engineering practices and scientific methods, may calculate different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data. Because of the subjective nature of natural gas, NGLs and oil reserve estimates, each of the following items may differ materially from the amounts or other factors estimated:. •  the amount and timing of natural gas, NGLs and oil production;. •  the revenues and costs associated with that production;. •  the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and. •  future commodity prices.. The discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves included in this report should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by United States generally accepted accounting principles, the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based on a twelve month average price (first day of the month) while cost estimates are based on current year-end economic conditions. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition, the ten percent discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes under United States generally accepted accounting principles is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on the cost of capital in effect from time to time and risks associated with our business and the oil and gas industry in general.. If natural gas, NGLs and oil prices remain depressed or drilling efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to record writedowns of our proved natural gas and oil properties. We have been required to write down the carrying value of certain of our natural gas and oil properties in the past and there is a risk that we will be required to take additional writedowns in the future. Recent commodity price declines have resulted in an impairment of our proved oil and gas properties. For example, in third quarter 2015, we recorded a $502.2 million impairment of natural gas and oil properties in Northern Oklahoma and our legacy producing assets in Northwest Pennsylvania, and in fourth quarter 2015, we recorded an additional impairment of $87.9 million primarily related to our natural gas and oil properties in the Texas Panhandle. In first quarter 2016, we recorded a $43.0 million proved property impairment in Western Oklahoma. In third quarter 2017, we recorded a $63.7 million proved property impairment related to our natural gas and oil properties in the Texas Panhandle and Northern Oklahoma. These impairments were due to a significant decline in commodity prices and the potential sale of certain of these properties. Writedowns may occur in the future when natural gas and oil prices are low, or if we have downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of operating or development costs, deterioration in our drilling results or mechanical problems with wells where the cost to redrill or repair is not supported by the expected economics. Because our reserves are predominately natural gas, changes in natural gas prices have a more significant impact on our financial results.. Accounting rules require that the carrying value of natural gas and oil properties be periodically reviewed for possible impairment. Impairment is recognized for the excess of book value over fair value when the book value of a proven property is greater than the expected undiscounted future net cash flows from that property and on acreage when conditions indicate the carrying value is not recoverable. We may be required to write down the carrying value of a property based on natural gas and oil prices at the time of the impairment review, or as a result of continuing evaluation of drilling results, production data, economics, divestiture activity, and other factors. A write down constitutes a non-cash charge to earnings and does not impact cash or cash flows from operating activities; however, it reflects our long-term ability to recover an investment and reduces our reported earnings and increases certain leverage ratios. If commodity prices remain depressed, we may be required to further impair the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties.. 27. We evaluate our unproved oil and gas properties for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. At December 31, 2017, our unproved natural gas and oil properties were $2.6 billion. Our analysis of these costs is affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases. Impairment of a significant portion of our unproved properties is assessed and amortized on an aggregate basis based on our average holding period, expected forfeiture rate and anticipated drilling success.. We periodically evaluate our goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. At December 31, 2017, we have goodwill of $1.6 billion. Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter or whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our business may be impaired which may require an estimate of the fair values of our assets and liabilities. Those assessments may be affected by:. •  additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative;. •  results of drilling activities;. •  management's outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses;. •  changes in our market capitalization;. •  changes in our weighted average cost of capital; and. •  changes in income taxes.. If the fair value of our net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, we may be required to reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value and incur a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired.. Significant capital expenditures are required to replace our reserves. Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flow from operations, our bank credit facility and debt and equity issuances. We have also engaged in asset monetization transactions. Currently, we have set our capital expenditures in 2018 to closely align with our projected cash flows from operations in 2018. Future cash flows are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of natural gas, NGLs and oil and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our access to capital were limited due to various factors, which could include a decrease in revenues due to lower natural gas, NGLs and oil prices or decreased production or deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we would have a reduced ability to replace our reserves. We may not be able to incur additional bank debt, issue debt or equity, engage in asset monetization or access other methods of financing on an economic basis to meet our reserve replacement requirements.. The amount available for borrowing under our bank credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders, at their discretion, taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to periodic redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. Declines in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices adversely impact the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base and could result in a determination to lower our borrowing base. In the past several years, natural gas, NGLs and oil prices declined significantly. A further or extended decline in commodity prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future success depends on our ability to replace reserves that we produce. Because the rate of production from natural gas and oil properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to economically find or acquire and produce additional natural gas, NGLs and oil reserves. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future natural gas, NGLs and oil production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot be certain that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost.. We acquire significant amounts of unproved property to further our development efforts. Development and exploratory drilling and production activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be discovered. We acquire both producing and unproved properties as well as lease undeveloped acreage that we believe will enhance growth potential and increase our earnings over time. However, we cannot be certain that all prospects will be economically viable or that we will not abandon our initial investments. Additionally, there can be no assurance that unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such unproved property or wells. Low commodity prices may cause us to delay our drilling plans and as a result, we may lose our right to develop the related property.. 28. Drilling is an uncertain and costly activity. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our efforts will be uneconomical if we drill dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce enough natural gas, NGLs and oil to be commercially viable after drilling, operating and other costs. There is no way to conclusively know in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield natural gas, NGLs or oil in commercially viable quantities. Furthermore, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:. •  increases in the costs, shortages or delivery delays of drilling rigs, equipment, water for hydraulic fracturing services, labor, or other services;. •  unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;. •  reductions in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices;. •  limitations in the market for natural gas, NGLs and oil;. •  adverse weather conditions and changes in weather patterns;. •  facility or equipment malfunctions;. •  equipment failures or accidents;. •  loss of title and other title-related issues;. •  pipe or cement failures;. •  compliance with, or changes in, environmental, tax and other governmental requirements;. •  environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, and unauthorized discharges of toxic gases;. •  lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools;. •  unusual or unexpected geological formations;. •  loss of drilling fluid circulation;. •  pressure or irregularities in formations;. •  fires;. •  natural disasters;. •  surface craterings and explosions;. •  uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids;. •  availability and timely issuance of required governmental permits and licenses; and. •  civil unrest or protest activities.. If any of these factors were to occur, we could lose all or a part of our investment, or we could fail to realize the expected benefits, either of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability.. Our operations involve utilizing drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  landing the wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. •  staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. •  running casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. •  being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Risks that we face while completing horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. •  the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. •  the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation state.. 29. Drilling in emerging areas is more uncertain than drilling in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established drilling operations. New discoveries and emerging formations have limited or no production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling results in these areas. If our drilling results are worse than anticipated, the return on investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as anticipated and we may recognize noncash impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of its unproved properties in those areas.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over multiple years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including natural gas and oil prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, transportation constraints, regulatory and zoning approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. In addition, we will require significant additional capital over a prolonged period in order to pursue the development of these locations, and we may not be able to raise or generate the capital required to do so. Any drilling activities we are able to conduct on these locations may not be successful or result in our ability to add additional proved reserves to our overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of our estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest. It is our practice in acquiring oil and natural gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest. Rather, we rely upon the judgement of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Prior to the drilling of an oil or natural gas well, however, it is the normal practice in our industry for the person or company acting as the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review to ensure there are no obvious defects in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be done to correct defects in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Our failure to cure any title defects may delay or prevent us from utilizing the associated mineral interest, which may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. Additionally, undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. If there are any title defects or defects in the assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss.. Our producing properties are largely concentrated in the Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a significant geographic area. Our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania. At December 31, 2017, 91% of our total estimated proved reserves were attributable to properties located in Pennsylvania. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in this area caused by governmental regulation, state politics, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or interruption of the processing or transportation of crude oil, condensate, natural gas or NGLs.. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete. There have been rapid and significant advancements in technology in the natural gas and oil industry, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial increase in cost. Further, competitors may obtain patents which might prevent us from implementing new technologies. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 30. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to successfully operate our business. We are leveraged and our exploration and development program will require substantial capital resources depending on the level of drilling and the expected cost of services. Our existing operations will also require ongoing capital expenditures. In addition, if we decide to pursue additional acquisitions, our capital expenditures will increase, both to complete such acquisitions and to explore and develop any newly acquired properties.. The degree to which we are leveraged could have other important consequences, including the following:. •  we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, reducing the funds available for our operations;. •  a portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates;. •  we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage;. •  our degree of leverage may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the general economy;. •  we are subject to numerous financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our existing debt agreements, which restrict our ability to engage in certain activities and could limit our growth, and the breach of such covenants, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance;. •  our debt level could limit our flexibility to grow the business and in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. •  we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future.. The risks described above may further increase in the event we incur additional debt. In addition to those risks above, we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms.. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect our earnings and cash flow to fluctuate from year to year due to the cyclical nature of our business. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or restructure our debt. Our ability to restructure our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any restructuring of debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity.. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term growth opportunities. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, product mix and commodity pricing levels are also considered by the rating agencies. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access debt markets in the future, increase the cost of future debt and potentially require us to post letters of credit or other forms of collateral for certain obligations.. As a result of cross-default provisions in our borrowing arrangements, we may be unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations in the event of a default on our part. The terms of our senior indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility, contain cross-default provisions which provide that we will be in default under such agreements in the event of certain defaults under our indentures or other loan agreements. Accordingly, should an event of default above certain thresholds occur under any of those agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under all of our debt agreements, obliged in such instance to satisfy all of our outstanding indebtedness and unable to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations simultaneously. In such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us, which would negatively affect our ability to implement our business plan, make capital expenditures and finance our operations.. We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in our credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for drilling and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, at December 31, 2017, approximately 71% of our debt is at fixed interest rates with the remaining 29% subject to variable interest rates.. Disruptions or volatility in the global finance markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We are. 31. exposed to some credit risk related to our bank credit facility to the extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our existing revolving line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems.. A financial downturn or negative credit market conditions may have lasting effects on our liquidity, business and financial condition that we cannot predict. Liquidity is essential to our business. Our liquidity could be substantially negatively affected by an inability to obtain capital in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or equity capital markets or an inability to access bank financing. A prolonged credit crisis or turmoil in the domestic or global financial systems could materially affect our liquidity, business and financial condition. These conditions have adversely impacted financial markets previously and created substantial volatility and uncertainty, and could do so again, with the related negative impact on global economic activity and the financial markets. Negative credit market conditions could materially affect our liquidity and may inhibit our lenders from fully funding our bank credit facility or cause them to make the terms of our bank credit facility costlier and more restrictive. We are subject to annual reviews, as well as unscheduled reviews, of our borrowing base under our bank credit facility, and we do not know the results of future redeterminations or the effect of then-current oil and natural gas prices on that process. A weak economic environment could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables or performance by our suppliers or other third parties that we contract with to operate our properties or provide facilities.  In addition, it may also cause our commodity derivative arrangements to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. Additionally, negative economic conditions could lead to reduced demand or lower prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil, which could have a negative impact on our revenues.. Derivative transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks. To manage our exposure to price risk, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a portion of our future production. Such hedges are designed to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if natural gas, NGLs and oil prices rise above the price established by the hedge. In addition, derivative transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:. •  our production is less than expected;. •  the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform on their contract obligations; or. •  an event materially impacts natural gas, NGLs or oil prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the natural gas or oil sales price.. We cannot be certain that any derivative transaction we may enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of natural gas, NGLs or oil. Furthermore, where we choose not to engage in derivative transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in natural gas, NGLs or oil prices than our competitors who engage in derivative transactions. Lower natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may also negatively impact our ability to enter into derivative contracts at favorable prices.. We are exposed to a risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract. We are unable to predict sudden changes in a counterparty's creditworthiness or ability to perform. Even if we do accurately predict sudden changes, our ability to mitigate the risk may be limited depending upon market conditions. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our hedge providers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed to us by the distressed entity or entities. During periods of falling commodity prices our hedge receivable positions increase, which increases our exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss.. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources than we have and we may not be able to successfully compete in acquiring, exploring and developing new properties. We face competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, acquiring reserves and leases, obtaining goods, services and employees needed to operate and manage our business and marketing natural gas, NGLs or oil. Competitors include multinational oil companies, independent production companies and individual producers and operators. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to address these competitive factors more effectively than we can or withstand industry downturns more easily than we can. For more discussion regarding competition, see Items 1 & 2. Business and Properties  -  Competition.. The natural gas and oil industry is subject to extensive regulation. The natural gas and oil industry is subject to various types of regulations in the United States by local, state and federal agencies. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Numerous departments and agencies, both state and federal, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on participants in the natural gas and oil industry. Compliance with such rules and regulations often increases our cost of doing business, delays our operations and, in turn, decreases our profitability.. Our operations are subject to numerous and increasingly strict federal, state and local laws, regulations and enforcement policies relating to the environment. We may incur significant costs and liabilities in complying with existing or future environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and may incur costs arising out of property or natural resource damage or injuries to employees. 32. and other persons. These costs may result from our current and former operations and may even be caused by previous owners of property we own or lease or relate to third party sites where we have taken materials for recycling or disposal. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties as well as corrective action orders. Matters subject to regulation include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  the amounts and types of substances and materials that may be released into the environment;. •  responding to unexpected releases to the environment;. •  reports and permits concerning exploration, drilling, production and other regulated activities;. •  the spacing of wells;. •  unitization and pooling of properties;. •  calculating royalties on oil and gas produced under federal and state leases; and. •  taxation.. Under such laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damages, oil spills, discharges of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs, natural resource damages and other environmental damages. We also could be required to install expensive pollution control measures or limit or cease activities on lands located within wilderness, wetlands or other environmentally or politically sensitive areas. If we incur these costs or damages it may reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development or acquisitions or cause us to incur losses.. The subject of climate change continues to receive attention from scientists, legislators, governmental agencies and the general public. There is an ongoing debate as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of this change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of GHGs, including carbon dioxide and methane, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit GHG emissions.. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and there have been a number of federal regulatory initiatives to address GHG emissions in recent years. These include the establishing of Title V and PSD permitting reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are already major potential sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions, and the implementation of a GHG monitoring and reporting program for certain sectors of the natural gas and oil industry, including onshore and production, which includes certain of our operations. Additionally, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs, in which major sources of GHG emissions acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. The outcome of federal and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations to control or restrict emissions, taxes or other charges to deter emissions of GHGs, energy efficiency requirements to reduce demand, or other regulatory actions. For example, the EPA finalized new regulations in 2016 that would set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and gas production and natural gas processing and transmission facilities in an effort to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025; however, on June 12, 2017 the EPA announced a proposed 2 year stay on fugitive emissions standards \"while the agency reconsiders them.\" Therefore, the date when and if these standards may become implemented is still not known. If these or any other actions to address GHG emissions do become implemented in the future, they could:. •  result in increased costs associated with our operations;. •  increase other costs to our business;. •  affect the demand for natural gas; and. •  impact the prices we charge our customers.. Adoption of additional federal or state requirements mandating a reduction in GHG emissions could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry and the U.S. economy. We cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations, or international compacts, on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For more information regarding the environmental regulation of our business, see Items 1 & 2. Business and Properties  -  Environment and Occupational Health and Safety Matters.. 33. Our business is subject to operating hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully covered under our insurance policies. Natural gas, NGLs and oil operations are subject to many risks, including well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires, pipe or cement failures, pipeline ruptures or spills, vandalism, pollution, releases of toxic gases, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, and other environmental hazards and risks. If any of these hazards occur, we could sustain substantial losses as a result of:. •  injury or loss of life;. •  severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. •  pollution or other environmental damage;. •  investigatory and cleanup responsibilities;. •  regulatory investigations and penalties or lawsuits;. •  suspension of operations; and. •  repairs to resume operations.. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, potential losses or liabilities arising from our operations in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. Our insurance includes deductibles that must be met prior to recovery, as well as sub-limits and/or self-insurance. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations. Our insurance does not cover every potential risk associated with our operations, including the potential loss of significant revenues. We can provide no assurance that our coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences, damages and losses.. We currently have insurance policies covering our operations that include coverage for general liability, excess liability, physical damage to our oil and gas properties, operational control of wells, oil pollution, third-party liability, workers' compensation and employer's liability and other coverages. Our insurance policies provide coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution, but are largely limited to coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. For example, we maintain operator's extra expense coverage for obligations, expenses or claims that we may incur from a sudden incident that results in negative environmental effects, including obligations, expenses or claims related to seepage and pollution, cleanup and containment, evacuation expenses and control of the well (subject to policy terms and conditions). In the specific event of a well blowout or out-of-control well resulting in negative environmental effects, such operator's extra expense coverage would be our primary source of coverage, with the general liability and excess liability coverage referenced above also providing certain coverage.. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that we believe are economically acceptable. No assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable, and we may elect to maintain minimal or no insurance coverage. If we incur substantial liability from a significant event and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, then we would have lower revenues and funds available to us for our operations, that could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, we rely to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third parties, and damage to or destruction of those third-party facilities could affect our ability to process, transport and sell our production. To a limited extent, we maintain business interruption insurance related to a third-party processing plant in Pennsylvania where we are insured for potential losses from the interruption of production caused by loss of or damage to the processing plant.. A change in the jurisdictional characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts natural gas gathering facilities from regulation by the FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA. We believe that the natural gas pipelines in our gathering systems meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a pipeline's status as a gatherer not subject to regulation as a natural gas company. However, we have not received a declaratory order from the FERC regarding our natural gas gathering pipelines and the distinction between FERC-regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of ongoing litigation, so the classification and regulation of our gathering facilities are subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC, the courts or Congress.. While we believe our natural gas gathering operations are generally exempt from FERC regulation under the NGA, our gas gathering operations may be subject to certain FERC reporting and posting requirements in a given year. The FERC requires certain participants in the natural gas market, including certain gathering facilities and natural gas marketers that engage in a minimum level of natural gas sales or purchases, to submit annual reports to the FERC on the aggregate volumes of natural gas purchased or sold at wholesale in the prior calendar year to the extent such transactions utilize, contribute to, or may contribute to, the formation of price indices.. 34. Other FERC regulations may indirectly impact our operations and the markets for products derived from these operations. The FERC's policies and practices across the range of its natural gas regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, gas quality, ratemaking, capacity release and market-center promotion, may indirectly affect the intrastate natural gas market. In recent years, the FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot be certain that the FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates, rules and policies that may affect rights of access to transportation capacity. For more information regarding the regulation of our operations, see Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties  -  Governmental Regulation.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under EPAct 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated as a natural gas company by the FERC under the NGA, the FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to the FERC annual reporting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by the FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by the FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject Range to civil penalty liability. For more information regarding the regulation of our operations, see Items 1 & 2. Business and Properties  -  Governmental Regulation.. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development may be eliminated, and additional state taxes on natural gas extraction may be imposed, as a result of future legislation. Legislation previously has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax benefits currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs and; (ii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such changes could be effective. As of December 31, 2017, we had a tax basis of $2.2 billion related to prior years' capitalized intangible drilling costs, which will be amortized over the next five years.. The passage of this legislation or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was signed into law on December 22, 2017 by President Trump. The law includes significant changes to the United States corporate income tax system, including a federal corporate rate reduction from 35% to 21%, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation, and the transition of United States international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. The new law also limits the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards to 80% of taxable income and makes some fringe benefits no longer deductible. While the initial implementation of the new law had a material impact on our December 31, 2017 financial statements, we do not expect it to have a material impact on our taxes payable or net operating loss carryforwards. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate and the impact was recognized in tax expense in 2017. At December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of this new tax law and its impact on our deferred tax balances. Due to the complexities involved in accounting for the new law, the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (\"SAB\") 118 allows us to provide a provisional estimate in our earnings for the year ended December 31, 2017. We have made a reasonable estimate of this impact on our existing deferred tax balances and we will continue to analyze the effect. Any adjustments will be recorded as they are identified during the measurement period provided for in SAB 118.. In February 2012, the state legislature of Pennsylvania passed legislation creating a natural gas impact fee applicable to production in Pennsylvania. As noted above, the majority of our acreage in the Marcellus Shale is located in Pennsylvania. The legislation imposes an annual fee on natural gas and oil operators for each well drilled for a period of fifteen years. Much like a severance tax, the fee is on a sliding scale set by the Public Utility Commission and is based on two factors: changes in the Consumer Price Index and the average NYMEX natural gas prices on the last day of each month. The impact fee increases the financial burden on our operations in the Marcellus Shale. There can be no assurance that the impact fee will remain as currently structured or that additional taxes will not be imposed. There are currently proposals by the Pennsylvania Governor and various Pennsylvania state lawmakers to enact a severance tax in substitution for, or as an addition to, the impact fee already in place, which could be based on the volume of gas produced rather than on a per-well basis. In addition, a recent court case in Pennsylvania addressed the constitutionality of the 2007 net operating loss deduction (\"NOLD\") limitation under the Uniformity Clause of the Pennsylvania Constitution, which limited the use of NOLDs to the greater of $3 million or 12.5 percent of taxable income. On October 18, 2017, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania issued its decision on this case holding that the NOLD limitation as applied to the 2007 taxable year at issue violated the Uniformity Clause of the Pennsylvania Constitution and struck the $3 million flat cap limitation, but not the percentage of taxable income limitation. Shortly after the Supreme Court Case, the Pennsylvania Governor signed a bill that removed the flat cap NOLD limitation and increased the percentage of taxable income limitation. For taxable years beginning after December. 35. 31, 2017, the net operating loss carryforward is limited to 35 percent of taxable income and limited to 40 percent for the year ended December 31, 2018.. Changes in laws or regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect our production. The use of hydraulic fracturing is necessary to produce commercial quantities of natural gas and oil from many reservoirs, especially shale formations such as the Marcellus Shale. The process is typically regulated by state environmental agencies and oil and gas commissions. However, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, the EPA has issued final Clean Air Act regulations governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing; proposed effluent limit guidelines that wastewater from shale gas extraction operations must meet before discharging to a treatment plant; and issued in May 2014 a prepublication of its Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Additionally, in 2015 the BLM enacted a new rule setting forth disclosure requirements and other regulatory mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands; however, on December 29, 2017, the U.S. Department of Interior rescinded the  2015 rule because it believed the 2015 rule imposed administrative burdens and compliance cost that were not justified.. From time to time, legislation has been introduced, but not enacted, in Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. Certain states, in which we operate, including Pennsylvania and Texas, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure or well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. States could elect to prohibit hydraulic fracturing altogether, as Governor Andrew Cuomo of the State of New York announced in December 2014 with regard to fracturing activities in New York. Local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event federal, state or local restrictions or prohibitions are adopted in areas where we conduct operations, we may incur significant costs to comply with such requirements or we may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and possibly be limited or precluded in the drilling of wells or in the amounts that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. Moreover, a number of federal entities are analyzing a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. The final report concluded that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances,\" noting that the following hydraulic fracturing water cycle activities and local-or regional-scale factors are more likely than others to result in more frequent or more severe impacts: water withdrawals for fracturing in times or areas or low water availability; surface spills during the management of fracturing fluids, chemicals or produced water, injection of fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity; injection of fracturing fluids directly into groundwater resources; discharge of inadequately treated fracturing wastewater to surface waters; and disposal or storage of fracturing wastewater in unlined pits. Since the report did not find a direct link between hydraulic fracturing itself and contamination of groundwater resources, we do not believe that this multi-year study and subsequent report provides any basis for further regulation of hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. However, the EPA's report did identify future efforts that could be taken to further understand the potential of hydraulic fracturing impact to drinking water resources, including groundwater and surface water monitoring in areas with hydraulically fractured oil and gas production wells.. We use a significant amount of water in our hydraulic fracturing operations. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or dispose of or recycle water used in our operations, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity in Oklahoma and elsewhere could increase our costs of compliance or lead to operational delays, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We dispose of large volumes of water produced alongside natural gas and oil (or produced water) in connection with our drilling and production operations, pursuant to permits issued to us by governmental authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued under existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such gathering or disposal activities.. There exists a growing concern that the injection of produced water into belowground disposal wells triggers seismic events in certain areas, including Oklahoma and Texas, where we have limited operations. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are pursuing initiatives designed to impose additional requirements in the permitting and operating of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. Legislative and regulatory initiatives intended to address these concerns may result in additional levels of regulation that could lead to operational delays, increase. 36. operating and compliance costs or otherwise adversely affect operations. For example, Oklahoma has taken numerous regulatory actions in response to concerns related to the operation of produced water disposal wells and induced seismicity. Oklahoma has adopted a \"traffic light\" system, wherein the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (the \"OCC\") reviews new or existing disposal wells for proximity to faults, seismicity in the area and other factors in determining whether such wells should be permitted, permitted only with special restrictions, or not permitted. The granting of a permit may be conditioned upon the operator complying with several additional regulatory requirements including, without limitation:. •  monitoring and recording well pressure and injected volume on a daily basis;. •  conducting more frequent mechanical integrity testing;. •  reducing the depth of, or \"plugging back\" such well; and/or. •  reducing injection volumes for such well by as much as 50%.. Additional regulatory action in this area is likely and the Oklahoma legislature has introduced new legislation to expand the OCC's authority to address concerns related to disposal wells and induced seismicity. For example, in March 2016, the Oklahoma legislature passed a bill authorizing the OCC to take emergency action with regard to disposal well operations or other activities within its jurisdiction when public safety or the environment is at risk.. In 2014, the Texas Railroad Commission (\"TRC\") published a new rule governing permitting of disposal wells that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question.. Restriction on the volumes permissible for injection or a lack of alternative waste disposal sites could cause us to delay, curtail or discontinue our exploration and development plans. Increased costs associated with the transportation and disposal of produced water, including the cost of complying with regulations concerning produced water disposal, such as mandated produced water recycling in some portion of all of our operations, may reduce our profitability. These developments may result in additional regulations, or increased complexity and costs with respect to existing regulations, that could lead to operational delays or increased operating and compliance costs. Such delays or increased costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Act\"), enacted in July 2010, established federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including Range, that participate in that market. The Act requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\") and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the Act. Although the CFTC has finalized certain regulations, others remain to be finalized or implemented and it is not possible at this time to predict when this will be accomplished.. In October 2011, the CFTC issued regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. The initial position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2012. However, in November 2013, the CFTC proposed new rules that would place limits on positions in certain core futures and equivalent swaps contracts for or linked to certain physical commodities, subject to exceptions for certain bona fide hedging transactions. In December 2016, the CFTC voted unanimously to repropose regulations implementing limits on speculative futures and swaps positions as called for in the Act. In a separate vote, CFTC approved final aggregation regulations, which are a key component of the CFTC's existing position limits regime. In response to comments on a prior proposal published in December 2013, and on a supplemental proposal published in June 2016, the CFTC is, among other things, reproposing limits on speculative position in 25 core physical commodity futures contracts and their \"economically equivalent\" futures, options, and swaps (referenced contracts), and is deferring action on three cash-settled commodities. The CFTC is also reproposing the definition of bona fide hedging position, as well as exemptions for bona fide hedging positions in physical commodities. Exemptions are being reproposed for, among other things, positions that are established in good faith prior to the effective date of the initial limits that would be established by regulations. As these CFTC reproposals are not yet final, the impact on us is uncertain at this time.. The CFTC has designated certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps for mandatory clearing and the associated rules also will require us, in connection with covered derivative activities, to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements. The CFTC has not yet proposed rules designating any other classes of swaps, including physical commodity swaps, for mandatory clearing. Although we expect to qualify for the end-user exception from the mandatory clearing requirements for swaps entered to hedge our commercial risks, the application of the mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements to other market participants, such as swap dealers, may change the cost and availability of the swaps that we use for hedging. In addition, the Act requires that regulators establish margin rules for uncleared swaps. Rules that require end-users to. 37. post initial or variation margin could impact our liquidity and reduce cash available to us for capital expenditures, therefore reducing our ability to execute hedges to reduce risk and protect cash flows.. The full impact of the Act and related regulatory requirements upon our business will not be known until the regulations are implemented and the market for derivatives contracts has adjusted. The Act and new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts or materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter or reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations implementing the Act, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.. Finally, the Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Act and regulations implemented thereunder is to lower commodity prices.. Laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict our operations and cause us to incur substantial costs. Various federal and state statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the ESA, the MBTA, the CWA and CERCLA. The FWS may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. If harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and, in some cases, may seek criminal penalties. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the FWS was required to consider listing numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA before completion of the agency's 2017 fiscal year. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we conduct operations could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on its exploration and production activities that could have an adverse effect on our ability to develop and produce reserves.. Our business depends on natural gas and oil transportation and NGLs processing facilities, most of which are owned by others and depends on our ability to contract with those parties. Our ability to sell our natural gas, NGLs and oil production depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems and processing facilities owned by third parties and our ability to contract with those third parties. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our product, material changes in these business relationships, including the financial condition of these third parties, could materially affect our operations. In some cases, we do not purchase firm transportation on third party facilities and therefore, our production transportation can be interrupted by those having firm arrangements. In other cases, we have entered into firm transportation arrangements, particularly in the Marcellus Shale where we are obligated to pay fees on minimum volumes regardless of actual volume throughput. If production decreases due to developmental activities, taking into consideration the current commodity price environment, production related difficulties or otherwise, we may be unable to meet our obligations under existing firm transportation contracts, resulting in fees, which may be significant and may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have also entered into long-term agreements with third parties to provide natural gas gathering and processing services in the Marcellus Shale. In some cases, the capacity of gathering systems and transportation pipelines may be insufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells. Federal and state regulation of natural gas and oil production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport natural gas, NGLs and oil. If any of these third party pipelines or other facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport or process our product, or if the natural gas quality specifications for a natural gas pipeline or facility changes so as to restrict our ability to transport natural gas on those pipelines or facilities, our revenues could be adversely affected.. The disruption of third-party facilities due to maintenance and/or weather could negatively impact our ability to market and deliver our products. In particular, the disruption of certain third-party natural gas processing facilities in the Marcellus Shale could materially affect our ability to market and deliver natural gas production in that area. We have no control over when or if such facilities are restored and generally have no control over what prices will be charged. A total shut-in of production could materially affect us due to a lack of cash flow, and if a substantial portion of the production is hedged at lower than market prices, those financial hedges would have to be paid from borrowings absent sufficient cash flow.. In North Louisiana, we have contracts with midstream providers for gathering and processing services with minimum volume delivery commitments. We are obligated to pay fees on minimum volumes to midstream service providers regardless of actual volume throughput. These fees could be significant and may have a material adverse effect on our operations.. 38. Acquisitions are subject to the risks and uncertainties of evaluating reserves and potential liabilities and may be disruptive and difficult to integrate into our business. We could be subject to significant liabilities related to our acquisitions. It is generally not feasible to review in detail every individual property included in an acquisition. Ordinarily, a review is focused on higher-valued properties. However, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems in all of the properties, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. Initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revisions following an acquisition which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition.. In addition, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue an acquisition strategy may be hindered if we are unable to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or regulatory approvals.. Acquisitions often pose integration risks and difficulties. In connection with prior and future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt, contingent liabilities, expenses and diversion of resources, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. Significant acquisitions, including the MRD Merger (as defined herein), present potential risks, including:. •  difficulties in operating a significantly larger combined organization and integrating additional operations into ours;. •  difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographical area;. •  the loss of customers or key employees from the acquired businesses;. •  the diversion of management's attention from other existing business concerns;. •  the failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings;. •  difficulties in coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities;. •  difficulties in integrating personnel from diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; and. •  difficulties in consolidating corporate and administrative functions.. The combined company may not be able to utilize a portion of Memorial's or Range's net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal tax purposes, which could adversely affect the combined company's net income and cash flows. As noted in the financial statements included with this Form 10-K, we have substantial net operating losses (\"NOLs\"). Utilization of these NOLs depends on many factors, including the company's future taxable income, which cannot be predicted with any accuracy. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Section 382\"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of an NOL that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone an \"ownership change\" (as determined under Section 382). An ownership change generally occurs if one or more stockholders (or groups of stockholders) change their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period, taking into account for this purpose only those stockholders (or groups of stockholders) who are deemed to own at least 5% of the corporation's stock. In the event that an ownership change has occurred - or were to occur - with respect to a corporation following its recognition of an NOL, utilization of this NOL would be subject to an annual limitation under Section 382, generally determined by multiplying the value of the corporation's stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate as defined in Section 382. However, this annual limitation would be increased under certain circumstances by recognized built-in gains of the corporation existing at the time of the ownership change. Any unused annual limitation with respect to an NOL generally may be carried over to later years, subject to the expiration of the NOL 20 years after it arose.. If Range is determined to have undergone an ownership change in the future, we may be unable to fully utilize our NOLs prior to their expiration. To the extent we are not able to offset future taxable income with our NOLs, net income and cash flows may be adversely affected.. We may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. We regularly review our property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. Various factors could materially affect our ability to dispose of nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to us. Sellers typically retain liabilities for certain matters. The magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. Also, third parties are often unwilling to release us from guarantees or other credit support provided. 39. prior to the sale of the divested assets. As a result, after a sale, we may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations.. Our success depends on key members of our management and our ability to attract and retain experienced technical and other professional personnel. Our success is highly dependent on our management personnel and none of them is currently subject to an employment contract. The loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, competition for experienced technical and other professional personnel remains strong. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Also, the loss of experienced personnel could lead to a loss of technical expertise.. We exist in a litigious environment. Certain parties may be able to bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact our future operations and financial condition. Such legal disputes could also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities.. Our business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. As a natural gas and oil producer, we face various security threats, including:. •  cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable;. •  threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; or. •  threats from terrorist acts.. Computers and telecommunication systems are used to conduct our exploration, development and production activities and have become an integral part of our business. We use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate internally and with outside business partners. Cyber-attacks could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems and result in disruptions to our business operations or the loss of our data and proprietary information. In addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. A cyber-attack against these operating systems, or the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions.. Security threats have subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, our implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our personnel, information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to harm to our employees or losses of sensitive information, losses of critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, and results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, ransomware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign attacks, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries could adversely affect the global economy in unpredictable ways, including the disruption of energy supplies and markets, increased volatility in commodity prices or the possibility that the infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, and, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry resulting from, among other things, concerns raised by advocacy groups about hydraulic fracturing, oil spills, and explosions of natural gas transmission lines or fossil fuels in general, may lead to regulatory scrutiny, which may, in turn, lead to new state and federal safety and environmental laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations. These actions may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation. Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the. 40. permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed, or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability to profitably conduct our business.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental requirements for renewable energy resources, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. Historically, our capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, NGLs and gas prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond our control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that we and our vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Increased levels of drilling activity in the natural gas and oil industry could lead to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. Such costs may rise faster than increases in our revenue, thereby negatively impacting our profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget.. Higher natural gas, NGLs and oil prices generally stimulate demand for ancillary services. Similarly, lower natural gas, NGLs and oil prices generally result in a decline in service costs due to reduced demand for drilling and completion services. If the current market changes and commodity prices continue to recover, we may face shortages of field personnel, drilling rigs or other equipment and supplies which could delay or adversely affect our operations.. Our financial statements are complex. Due to United States generally accepted accounting principles and the nature of our business, our financial statements continue to be complex, particularly with reference to derivatives, asset retirement obligations, equity awards, deferred taxes, goodwill impairment, long-lived assets and the accounting for our deferred compensation plans. We expect such complexity to continue and possibly increase.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Common stockholders will be diluted if additional shares are issued. In 2014, we issued approximately 4.6 million shares of common stock in a public stock offering with the proceeds used to redeem our 8% senior subordinated notes due 2019. In 2016, we issued approximately 77.0 million shares as part of the MRD Merger. Our ability to repurchase securities for cash is limited by our bank credit facility. We also issue restricted stock and performance share units (and previously stock appreciation rights and stock options) to our employees and directors as part of their compensation. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common stock, additional subordinated notes or other securities or debt convertible into common stock, to extend maturities or fund capital expenditures, including acquisitions. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders.. Dividend limitations. Limits on the payment of dividends and other restricted payments, as defined, are imposed under our bank credit facility. These limitations may, in certain circumstances, limit or prevent the payment of dividends.. Our stock price may be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid. The price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017, the price of our common stock reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $15.33 per share to a high of $65.53 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include:. •  changes in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices;. •  variations in quarterly drilling, recompletions, acquisitions and operating results;. •  changes in governmental regulation and/or taxation;. •  changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. •  changes in market valuations of comparable companies;. •  additions or departures of key personnel; or. •  future sales of our stock and changes in our capital structure.. We may fail to meet expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future and our stock price could decline as a result.. 41. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, some of our arrangements with employees and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage an acquisition or change of control of us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change of control, to acquire us or to replace incumbent management, including, for example, limitations on shareholders' ability to remove directors, call special meetings and to propose and nominate directors or otherwise propose actions for approval at stockholder meetings, as well as the ability of our board of directors to amend our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and to issue and set the terms of preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. In addition, our change of control severance plan, change of control severance agreements with certain officers and our omnibus stock plans and deferred compensation plans contain provisions that provide for severance payments and accelerated vesting of benefits, including accelerated vesting of equity awards and acceleration of deferred compensation, upon a change of control. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. These provisions could discourage or prevent a change of control, even if it may be beneficial to our stockholders, or could reduce the price our stockholders receive in an acquisition of us."
