[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and the trading price of our common stock.  The list of risk factors provided below is not exhaustive; there may be factors not discussed below or in this Form 10-K that adversely impact our results of operations, harm our reputation or inhibit our ability to generate new business prospects.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY. Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses.. Maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and maintaining clients, investors and associates.  If we fail to address, or appear to fail to address, issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business prospects.  These issues may include, but are not limited to, any of the risks discussed in this Item 1A, including appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money laundering, cybersecurity and privacy, record-keeping, and sales and trading practices, the failure to sell securities we have underwritten at anticipated price levels, and the proper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our products.  Failure to maintain appropriate service and quality standards, or a failure or perceived failure to treat clients fairly can result in client dissatisfaction, litigation and heightened regulatory scrutiny, all of which can lead to lost revenue, higher operating costs and reputational harm.  Negative publicity about us, whether or not true, may also harm our future business prospects.. We are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic conditions that impact the global financial markets.. We are engaged in various financial services businesses.  As such, we are affected by domestic and international macroeconomic and political conditions, including economic output levels, interest and inflation rates, employment levels, prices of commodities including oil and gas, consumer confidence levels, and fiscal and monetary policy.  For example, Fed policies determine, in large part, the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments.  The market impact from such policies also can decrease materially the value of certain of our financial assets, most notably debt securities.  Changes in Fed policies are beyond our control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations are difficult to predict.  Macroeconomic conditions also may directly and indirectly impact a number of factors in the global financial markets that may be detrimental to our operating results, including trading levels, investing, and origination activity in the securities markets, security valuations, the absolute and relative level and volatility of interest and currency rates, real estate values, the actual and perceived quality of issuers and borrowers, and the supply of and demand for loans and deposits.. 15. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. At times over the last several years we have experienced operating cycles during weak and uncertain U.S. and global economic conditions, including low economic output levels, artificially maintained levels of historically low interest rates, relatively high unemployment rates, and significant uncertainty with respect to domestic and international fiscal and monetary policy.  These conditions led to changes in the global financial markets that from time to time negatively impacted our net revenue and profitability.  While global financial markets have improved, uncertainty remains.  A period of sustained downturns and/or volatility in the securities markets, a return to very low levels of short-term interest rates, credit market dislocations, reductions in the value of real estate, and other negative market factors could significantly impair our revenues and profitability.  Additionally, certain of our market-making activities depend on market volatility to provide trading opportunities for our clients and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities or adversely affect the results of these activities. We could experience a decline in commission revenue from lower trading volumes, a decline in fees from reduced portfolio values of securities managed on behalf of our clients, a reduction in revenue from capital markets and advisory transactions due to reduced activity, increased credit provisions and charge-offs, losses sustained from our customers' and market participants' failure to fulfill their settlement obligations, reduced net interest earnings, and other losses.  Periods of reduced revenue and other losses could be accompanied by periods of reduced profitability because certain of our expenses, including, but not limited to, our interest expense on debt, rent, facilities and salary expenses are fixed and our ability to reduce them over short time periods is limited.. U.S. markets may also be impacted by political and civil unrest occurring in other parts of the world.  Concerns about the European Union (\"EU\"), including Britain's June 2016 referendum to exit the EU (\"Brexit\"), and the stability of the EU's sovereign debt, has caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally.  Continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the EU's financial support programs.  It is possible that other EU member states may experience financial troubles in the future, or may choose to follow Britain's lead and leave the EU.  Any negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from these developments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity.. U.S. state and local governments also continue to struggle with budget pressures and ongoing concerns regarding municipal issuer credit quality.  If these trends continue or worsen, investor concerns could potentially reduce the number and size of transactions in which we participate and, in turn, reduce investment banking revenues.  In addition, such factors could adversely affect the value of the municipal securities we hold in our trading securities portfolio.. RJ Bank is affected primarily by economic conditions in North America.  Market conditions in the United States and Canada can be assessed through the following metrics: the level and volatility of interest rates; unemployment and under-employment rates; real estate prices; consumer confidence levels and changes in consumer spending; and the number of personal bankruptcies, among others.  Deterioration of market conditions can diminish loan demand, lead to an increase in mortgage and other loan delinquencies, affect loan repayment performance and result in higher reserves and net charge-offs, which can adversely affect our earnings.. Lack of liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition.. We must maintain appropriate liquidity levels. Our inability to maintain adequate liquidity and readily available access to the credit and capital markets could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition.  If liquidity from our brokerage or banking operations is inadequate or unavailable, we may be required to scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional financial advisors, selling assets at unfavorable prices, and cutting or eliminating dividend payments.  Our liquidity could be negatively affected by the inability of our subsidiaries to generate cash in the form of dividends from earnings, regulatory changes to the liquidity or capital requirements applicable to our subsidiaries that may prevent us from upstreaming cash to the parent company, limited or no accessibility to credit markets for secured and unsecured borrowings by our subsidiaries, diminished access to the capital markets for RJF, and other commitments or restrictions on capital as a result of adverse legal settlements, judgments, or regulatory sanctions.  Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to prohibitions or limitations on our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase our stock.  The OCC, the Fed, the FDIC, and the SEC (through FINRA) have the authority, and under certain circumstances, the duty, to prohibit or to limit dividend payments by regulated subsidiaries to their parent.. The availability of financing, including access to the credit and capital markets, depends on various factors, such as conditions in the debt and equity markets, the general availability of credit, the volume of securities trading activity, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector and our credit ratings.  Our cost of capital and the availability of funding may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads.  Additionally, lenders may from time to time curtail, or even cease to provide, funding to borrowers as a result of future concerns over the strength of specific counterparties, as well as the stability of markets generally.  See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk.. 16. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. We are exposed to credit risk.. We are generally exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will fail to meet their performance obligations due to numerous causes, including bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, or operational failure, among others.  We actively buy and sell securities from and to clients and counterparties in the normal course of our broker-dealers' market making and underwriting businesses, which exposes us to credit risk.  Although generally collateralized by the underlying security to the transaction, we still face risk associated with changes in the market value of collateral through settlement date.  We also hold certain securities, loans and derivatives in our trading accounts.  Deterioration in the actual or perceived credit quality of the underlying issuers of securities or loans, or the non-performance of issuers and counterparties to certain derivative contracts could result in trading losses.. We borrow securities from, and lend securities to, other broker-dealers, and may also enter into agreements to repurchase and/or resell securities as part of investing and financing activities.  A sharp change in the security market values utilized in these transactions may result in losses if counterparties to these transactions fail to honor their commitments.. We manage the risk associated with these transactions by establishing and monitoring credit limits, as well as by monitoring collateral and transaction levels daily.  Significant deterioration in the credit quality of one of our counterparties could lead to widespread concerns about the credit quality of other counterparties in the same industry, thereby exacerbating our credit risk exposure.. We permit our clients to purchase securities on margin.  During periods of steep declines in securities prices, the value of the collateral securing client margin loans may fall below the amount of the purchaser's indebtedness.  If clients are unable to provide additional collateral for these margin loans, we may incur losses on those margin transactions.  This may cause us to incur additional expenses defending or pursuing claims or litigation related to counterparty or client defaults.. We deposit our cash in depository institutions as a means of maintaining the liquidity necessary to meet our operating needs, and we also facilitate the deposit of cash awaiting investment in depository institutions on behalf of our clients.  A failure of a depository institution to return these deposits could severely impact our operating liquidity, result in significant reputational damage, and adversely impact our financial performance.. We also incur credit risk by lending to businesses and individuals through the offering of loans, including C&I loans, commercial and residential mortgage loans, tax-exempt loans, home equity lines of credit, and margin and other loans collateralized by securities.  We also incur credit risk through our investments.  Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans or investments are concentrated among borrowers or issuers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries, or geographies, or to borrowers or issuers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions.  The deterioration of an individually large exposure, for example due to natural disasters, health emergencies or pandemics, acts of terrorism, severe weather events or other adverse economic events, could lead to additional loan loss provisions and/or charges-offs, or credit impairment of our investments, and subsequently have a material impact on our net income and regulatory capital.. Declines in the real estate market or sustained economic downturns may cause us to write down the value of some of the loans in RJ Bank's portfolio, foreclose on certain real estate properties or write down the value of some of our securities.  Credit quality generally may also be affected by adverse changes in the financial performance or condition of our debtors or deterioration in the strength of the U.S. economy.. See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management,\" in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing credit risk.. We are exposed to market risk.. We are, directly and indirectly, affected by changes in market conditions.  Market risk generally represents the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions.  For example, interest rate changes could adversely affect our net interest spread, the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and other sources of funding, which in turn impacts our net interest income and earnings.  Interest rate changes could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities.  In our brokerage operations, a rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread.  Conversely, in those operations, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread.  If we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Market risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations and activities, including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivatives and private equity investments.  Market. 17. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. conditions that change from time to time, thereby exposing us to market risk, include fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, and price deterioration or changes in value due to changes in market perception or actual credit quality of an issuer.. In addition, disruptions in the liquidity or transparency of the financial markets may result in our inability to sell, syndicate or realize the value of security positions, thereby leading to increased concentrations.  The inability to reduce our positions in specific securities may not only increase the market and credit risks associated with such positions, but also increase the level of risk-weighted assets on our balance sheet, thereby increasing our capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our business results, financial condition and liquidity.. Our private equity investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings.  The value of our private equity portfolios can fluctuate and earnings from our investments can be volatile and difficult to predict.  When, and if, we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions.  Further, our investments could incur significant mark-to-market losses, especially if they have been written up in prior periods because of higher market prices.. See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management,\" in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches to managing market risk.. Our business depends on fees generated from the distribution of financial products, fees earned from the management of client accounts, and advisory fees.. A large portion of our revenues are derived from fees generated from the distribution of financial products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities.  Changes in the structure or amount of the fees paid by the sponsors of these products could directly affect our revenues, business and financial condition.  In addition, if these products experience losses or increased investor redemptions, we may receive lower fee revenue from the investment management and distribution services we provide on behalf of the mutual funds and annuities.  The investment management fees we are paid may also decline over time due to factors such as increased competition and the renegotiation of contracts.  In addition, the market environment in recent years has resulted in a shift to passive investment products, which generate lower fees than actively managed products. A continued trend toward passive investments or changes in market values or in the fee structure of asset management accounts would affect our revenues, business and financial condition.  Asset management fees often are primarily comprised of base management and incentive fees.  Management fees are primarily based on assets under management (\"AUM\").  AUM balances are impacted by net inflows/outflows of client assets and market values.  Below-market investment performance by our funds and portfolio managers could result in a loss of managed accounts and could result in reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors and thus further impact our business and financial condition.  If we were to experience the loss of managed accounts, our fee revenue would decline.  In addition, in periods of declining market values, our values of AUM may resultantly decline, which would negatively impact our fee revenues.. Our underwriting, market-making, trading, and other business activities place our capital at risk.. We may incur losses and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we have underwritten at the anticipated price levels.  As an underwriter, we also are subject to heightened standards regarding liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings in which we are involved.  As a market maker, we may own positions in specific securities, and these undiversified holdings concentrate the risk of market fluctuations and may result in greater losses than would be the case if our holdings were more diversified.  In addition, despite risk mitigation policies, we may incur losses as a result of positions we hold in connection with our market making or underwriting activities.. From time to time and as part of our underwriting processes, we may carry significant positions in securities of a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry.  Sudden changes in the value of these positions could impact our financial results.. We have made and, to the limited extent permitted by applicable regulations, may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments; however, our current focus is on the divestiture of our existing portfolio.  We may be unable to realize our investment objectives if we cannot sell or otherwise dispose of our interests at attractive prices or complete a desirable exit strategy.  In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions.  It could take a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments.  Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash.. 18. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. Any cyber-attack or other security breach of our technology systems, or those of our clients or other third-party vendors we rely on, could subject us to significant liability and harm our reputation.. Our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential financial, personal and other information in our computer systems and networks. There have been several highly publicized cases involving financial services companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or other confidential information in recent years, as well as cyber-attacks involving the theft, dissemination and destruction of corporate information or other assets, in some cases as a result of failure to follow procedures by employees or contractors or as a result of actions by third parties. Like other financial services firms, we are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks, including unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse of information, computer viruses or malware, denial-of-service attacks, phishing or other forms of social engineering, and other events, and we seek to continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption. Cyber-attacks can originate from a variety of sources, including third parties affiliated with foreign governments, organized crime or terrorist organizations. Third parties may also attempt to place individuals within our firm or induce employees, clients or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information or provide access to our data, and these types of risks may be difficult to detect or prevent.  Although cyber security incidents among financial services firms are on the rise, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches.  However, the techniques used in these attacks are increasingly sophisticated, change frequently and are often not recognized until launched. Although we seek to maintain a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, including our cyber threat analytics, data encryption and tokenization technologies, anti-malware defenses and vulnerability management program, any one or combination of these controls could fail to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner.  Despite our implementation of protective measures and endeavoring to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to human error, natural disasters, power loss, spam attacks, unauthorized access, distributed denial of service attacks, computer viruses and other malicious code, and other events that could result in significant liability and damage to our reputation, and have an ongoing impact on the security and stability of our operations.. We also rely on numerous third party service providers to conduct other aspects of our business operations, and we face similar risks relating to them. While we regularly conduct security assessments on these third party vendors, we cannot be certain that their information security protocols are sufficient to withstand a cyber-attack or other security breach. In addition, in order to access our products and services, our customers may use computers and other devices that are beyond our security control systems.. Notwithstanding the precautions we take, if a cyber-attack or other information security breach were to occur, this could jeopardize the information we confidentially maintain, or otherwise cause interruptions in our operations or those of our clients and counterparties, exposing us to liability.  As attempted attacks continue to evolve in scope and sophistication, we may be required to expend substantial additional resources to modify or enhance our protective measures, to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures or to communicate about cyber-attacks to our customers.  Though we have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks, we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that exceed our policy limits or are not covered under any of our current insurance policies.  A technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to potential disciplinary action by regulators.  Further, successful cyber-attacks at other large financial institutions or other market participants, whether or not we are affected, could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our financial products and services.. Further, in light of the high volume of transactions we process, the large number of our clients, partners and counterparties, and the increasing sophistication of malicious actors, a cyber-attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time without detection. We expect that any investigation of a cyber-attack would take substantial amounts of time, and that there may be extensive delays before we obtain full and reliable information. During such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all of which would further increase the costs and consequences of such an attack.. We may also be subject to liability under various data protection laws.  In providing services to clients, we manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or employee data, including personal data.  As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as U.S. federal, state and international laws governing the protection of personally identifiable information.  These laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number.  If any person, including any of our associates, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to client or employee data, or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates such data, we could be subject to significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and/or criminal prosecution.  In addition, unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through system failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients and related revenue.  Potential liability in the event of a security breach of client data could be significant.  Depending on the circumstances giving rise to the breach, this liability may not be subject to a contractual limit or an exclusion of consequential or indirect damages.. 19. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management\" in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks.. The soundness of other financial institutions and intermediaries affects us.. We face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries that we use to facilitate our securities transactions.  As a result of the consolidation over the years among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, our exposure to certain financial intermediaries has increased and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives should the need arise. Any failure, termination or constraint of these intermediaries could adversely affect our ability to execute transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk.. Our ability to engage in routine trading and funding transactions could be affected adversely by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, funding, counterparty or other relationships.  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients.  Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial condition of, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have historically led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.  Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client.  In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us.  Losses arising in connection with counterparty defaults may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our risk management and conflicts of interest policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk.. We seek to manage, monitor and control our market, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risk through operational and compliance reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms; however, there can be no assurance that our procedures will be effective.  Our banking and trading processes seek to balance our ability to profit from banking and trading positions with our exposure to potential losses.  While we use limits and other risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate unforeseen economic and financial outcomes or the specifics and timing of such outcomes.  Our risk management methods may not predict future risk exposures effectively.  In addition, some of our risk management methods are based on an evaluation of information regarding markets, clients and other matters that are based on assumptions that may no longer be accurate or may have limited predictive value.  A failure to manage our growth adequately, including growth in the products or services we offer, or to manage our risk effectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Financial services firms are subject to numerous actual or perceived conflicts of interest, which are under growing scrutiny by U.S. federal and state regulators and SROs such as FINRA.  Our risk management processes include addressing potential conflicts of interest that arise in our business.  Management of potential conflicts of interest has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities.  A perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest adequately could affect our reputation, the willingness of clients to transact business with us or give rise to litigation or regulatory actions.  Therefore, there can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause result in material harm to our business and financial condition.. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management,\" in this report.. We continue to experience pricing pressures in areas of our business which may impair our future revenue and profitability.. We continue to experience pricing pressures on trading margins and commissions in fixed income and equity trading.  In the fixed income market, regulatory requirements have resulted in greater price transparency, leading to price competition and decreased trading margins.  In the equity market, we experience pricing pressure from institutional clients to reduce commissions, and this pressure has been augmented by the use of electronic and direct market access trading, which has created additional competitive downward pressure on trading margins.  We believe that price competition and pricing pressures in these and other areas will continue as institutional investors continue to reduce the amounts they are willing to pay, including by reducing the number of brokerage firms they use, and some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing fees, commissions or margins.. 20. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. We face intense competition.. We are engaged in intensely competitive businesses.  We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our financial advisors and associates, our products and services, pricing (such as execution pricing and fee levels), and location and reputation in relevant markets.  Over time there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, which has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors.  See the section entitled \"Competition\" of Item 1 of this report for additional information about our competitors.. We compete directly with national full service broker-dealers, investment banking firms, and commercial banks, and to a lesser extent, with discount brokers and dealers and investment advisors.  In addition, we face competition from more recent entrants into the market and increased use of alternative sales channels by other firms.  We also compete indirectly for investment assets with insurance companies, real estate firms and hedge funds, among others.  This competition could cause our business to suffer.. To remain competitive, our future success also depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services.  The inability to develop new products and services, or enhance existing offerings, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.  In addition, we may incur substantial expenditures to keep pace with the constant changes and enhancements being made in technology.. Our ability to attract and retain senior professionals, qualified financial advisors and other associates is critical to the continued success of our business.. Our ability to develop and retain our clients depends on the reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and skills of our senior professionals, and the members of our executive committees, as well as employees and financial advisors.  To compete effectively we must attract, retain and motivate qualified professionals, including successful financial advisors, investment bankers, trading professionals, portfolio managers and other revenue producing or specialized personnel.  Competitive pressures we experience could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Turnover in the financial services industry is high.  The cost of recruiting and retaining skilled professionals in the financial services industry has escalated considerably.  Financial industry employers are increasingly offering guaranteed contracts, upfront payments, and increased compensation.  These can be important factors in a current employee's decision to leave us as well as in a prospective employee's decision to join us.  As competition for skilled professionals in the industry remains intense, we may have to devote significant resources to attracting and retaining qualified personnel.  To the extent we have compensation targets, we may not be able to retain our employees, which could result in increased recruiting expense or result in our recruiting additional employees at compensation levels that are not within our target range.  In particular, our financial results may be adversely affected by the costs we incur in connection with any upfront loans or other incentives we may offer to newly recruited financial advisors and other key personnel.  If we were to lose the services of any of our investment bankers, senior equity research, sales and trading professionals, asset managers, or executive officers to a competitor or otherwise, we may not be able to retain valuable relationships and some of our clients could choose to use the services of a competitor instead of our services.  If we are unable to retain our senior professionals or recruit additional professionals, our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.  Further, new business initiatives and efforts to expand existing businesses generally require that we incur compensation and benefits expense before generating additional revenues.. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices.  We have been subject to several such claims and may be subject to additional claims in the future as we seek to hire qualified personnel, some of whom may work for our competitors.  Some of these claims may result in material litigation.  We could incur substantial costs in defending against these claims, regardless of their merits.  Such claims could also discourage potential employees who work for our competitors from joining us.   Recently, a large broker-dealer competitor announced its withdrawal from the Protocol for Broker Recruiting (\"Protocol\"), a voluntary agreement among over 1,700 firms that governs, among other things, the client information that financial advisors may take with them when they affiliate with a new firm. The ability to bring such customer data to a new broker-dealer generally means that the financial advisor is better able to move client account balances to his or her new firm.  It is possible that other competitors will similarly withdraw from the Protocol. If the broker-dealers from whom we recruit new financial advisors prevent, or significantly limit, the transfer of client data, our recruiting efforts may be adversely affected and we could experience a higher number of claims against us relating to our recruiting efforts.. A downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and financial condition.. If our credit ratings were downgraded, or if rating agencies indicate that a downgrade may occur, our business, financial position, and results of operations could be adversely affected, perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, and as a result, adversely affect our client relationships.  Such a change in our credit ratings could also adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, trigger obligations under certain financial agreements, or decrease. 21. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. the number of investors, clients and counterparties willing or permitted to do business with or lend to us, thereby curtailing our business operations and reducing profitability.. We may not be able to obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. The impact of a credit rating downgrade to a level below investment grade would result in our breaching provisions in certain of our derivative instruments, and may result in a request for immediate payment and/or ongoing overnight collateralization on our derivative instruments in liability positions.  A credit rating downgrade would also result in RJF incurring a higher commitment fee on any unused balance on its $300 million revolving credit facility, in addition to triggering a higher interest rate applicable to any borrowings outstanding on the line as of and subsequent to such downgrade (see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for information on this revolving credit facility).. Business growth could increase costs and regulatory and integration risks.. We continue to grow through acquisitions.  Integrating acquired businesses, providing a platform for new businesses and partnering with other firms involve risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges.  We may incur significant expense in connection with expanding our existing businesses, recruiting financial advisors, or making strategic acquisitions or investments.  Our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues derived from such investments or growth.. Expansion may also create a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves hiring additional personnel to address these procedures.  To the extent such procedures are not adequate or not adhered to with respect to our expanded business or any new business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction.. Moreover, to the extent we pursue acquisitions we may be unable to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms.  We may be unable to integrate any acquired business into our existing business successfully.  Difficulties we may encounter in integrating an acquired business could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  In addition, we may need to raise capital or borrow in order to finance an acquisition, which could result in dilution or increased leverage.  We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or perhaps at all.. A continued interruption to our telecommunications or data processing systems, or the failure to effectively update the technology we utilize, could be materially adverse to our business.. Our businesses rely extensively on data processing and communications systems.  In addition to better serving clients, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs.  Adapting or developing our technology systems to meet new regulatory requirements, client needs, and competitive demands is critical for our business.  Introduction of new technology presents challenges on a regular basis.  There are significant technical and financial costs and risks in the development of new or enhanced applications, including the risk that we might be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our applications to emerging industry standards.. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to: (i) successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our technology systems; (ii) address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands; and (iii) retain skilled information technology employees.  Failure of our technology systems, which could result from events beyond our control, or an inability to effectively upgrade those systems or implement new technology-driven products or services, could result in financial losses, liability to clients, violations of applicable privacy and other applicable laws and regulatory sanctions.  See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management,\" in this report for additional information regarding our exposure to and approaches for managing these types of operational risks.. Associate misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subject us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. There have been a number of highly-publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by associates in the financial services industry.  There is a risk that our associates could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business.  For example, our banking business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to our clients.  If our associates were to improperly use or disclose confidential information provided by our clients, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position, current client relationships and ability to attract future clients.  We are also subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our asset management business and our authority over the assets managed by our asset management business.  In addition, our financial advisors may act in a fiduciary capacity, providing financial planning, investment advice and discretionary asset management.  The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our associates would adversely. 22. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. affect our clients and us.  It is not always possible to deter associate misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective.  If our associates engage in misconduct, our business would be adversely affected.. We are exposed to litigation risks, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations and prospects.. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability.  We have been named as a defendant or co-defendant in lawsuits and arbitrations involving primarily claims for damages.  The risks associated with potential litigation often may be difficult to assess or quantify and the existence and magnitude of potential claims often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.  Unauthorized or illegal acts of our associates could result in substantial liability.  Our Private Client Group business segment has historically been more susceptible to litigation than our institutional businesses.. In challenging market conditions, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions has historically increased.  These risks include potential liability under securities laws or other laws for: alleged materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions; issues related to the suitability of our investment recommendations; the inability to sell or redeem securities in a timely manner during adverse market conditions; contractual issues; employment claims; and potential liability for other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions.  Substantial legal liability could have a material adverse financial impact or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business and future business prospects.  In addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the costs of defending individual litigation and claims continue to increase over time.  The amount of outside attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation and claims could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. See Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings\" in this report for a discussion of our legal matters and see Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management,\" in this report for a discussion regarding our approach to managing legal risk.. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results.. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain.  One of our most critical estimates is RJ Bank's allowance for loan losses.  At any given point in time, conditions in real estate and credit markets may increase the complexity and uncertainty involved in estimating the losses inherent in RJ Bank's loan portfolio.  If management's underlying assumptions and judgments prove to be inaccurate, the allowance for loan losses could be insufficient to cover actual losses.  Our financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted.  See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates,\" in this report for additional information on the nature of these estimates.. Our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available-for-sale securities including Auction Rate Securities (\"ARS\"), certain loans, intangible assets and private equity investments, among other items, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means, which ultimately rely to some degree on our subjective judgment. Some of these instruments and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective and, consequently, based on significant estimation and judgment.  In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment, as well as declines in our earnings in subsequent periods.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") and the SEC have at times revised the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied.  These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements.  For further discussion of some of our significant accounting policies and standards, see the \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" discussion within Item 7 in this report, and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. The FASB has issued several new accounting standards, including on the topics of credit losses, revenue recognition and leases.. 23. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. Specifically, the new credit losses standard will replace multiple existing impairment models, including the replacement of the \"incurred loss\" model for loans with an \"expected loss\" model.  We are evaluating the potential impact that the adoption of these standards will have on our financial position and results of operations.  See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information.. Regions may fail to honor its indemnification obligations associated with Morgan Keegan matters.. Under the definitive stock purchase agreement entered into in connection with our acquisition of Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc., and MK Holding, Inc. and certain of its affiliates (collectively referred to as \"Morgan Keegan\") from Regions Financial Corporation (\"Regions\"), Regions has obligations to continue to indemnify RJF with respect to certain litigation as well as other matters.  Specifically, the terms of the agreement provide that Regions will indemnify RJF for losses incurred in connection with legal proceedings pending as of the closing date of that acquisition (April 2, 2012), or commenced thereafter and related to pre-closing matters that were received prior to the closing date, as well as any cost of defense pertaining thereto.  RJF is relying on Regions to continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations under the agreement with respect to such matters.  Our inability to enforce these indemnification provisions in the future, or our failure to recover future losses for which we are entitled to be indemnified, could result in our incurring significant costs for defense, settlement, and any adverse judgments, and resultantly have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and our regulatory capital levels.. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information regarding the indemnification from Regions.. Our operations could be adversely affected by serious weather conditions.. Certain of our principal operations are located in St. Petersburg, Florida. While we have a business continuity plan that permits significant operations to be conducted out of our Southfield, Michigan and Memphis, Tennessee locations and our information systems processing to be conducted out of our information technology data center in the Denver, Colorado area, our operations could be adversely affected by hurricanes or other serious weather conditions that could affect the processing of transactions, communications, and the ability of our associates to get to our offices, or work from home.  As discussed above, weather events could also adversely impact certain loans within RJ Bank's portfolio.  Refer to Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management\" in this Form 10-K for a discussion of our operational risk management.. We are exposed to risk from international markets.. We do business in other parts of the world and as a result, are exposed to risks, including economic, market, litigation and regulatory risks.  Our businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. operations are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, social or political instability, less established regulatory regimes, changes in governmental or central bank policies, downgrades in the credit ratings of sovereign countries, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets and unfavorable legislative, economic and political developments.  Action or inaction in any of these operations, including failure to follow proper practices with respect to regulatory compliance and/or corporate governance, could harm our operations and our reputation.  We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations located in non-U.S. jurisdictions.  Revenues from trading non-U.S. securities also may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above mentioned factors.. We are exposed to risks related to our insurance programs.. Our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks.  We have elected to self-insure our workers compensation, errors and omissions liability and our employee-related health care benefit plans.   We have self-insured retention risk related to our property and casualty, and general liability benefit plans.. While we endeavor to purchase insurance coverage appropriate to our risk assessment, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature or magnitude of claims for direct or consequential damages.  Our business may be negatively affected if our insurance proves to be inadequate or unavailable.  In addition, claims associated with risks we have retained either through our self-insurance retention or by self-insuring, may exceed our recorded reserves which could negatively impact future earnings.  Insurance claims may divert management resources away from operating our business.. 24. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. RISKS RELATED TO OUR REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT. Financial services firms have been subject to regulatory changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and increased regulatory scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions.. Financial services firms over the last several years have been operating in an onerous regulatory environment, which could become more stringent in light of recent well-publicized failures of regulators to detect and prevent fraud.  The industry has experienced increased scrutiny from various regulators, including the SEC, the Fed, the OCC and the CFPB, in addition to stock exchanges, FINRA and state attorneys general.  Penalties and fines imposed by regulatory authorities have increased substantially in recent years.  We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, rules and regulations.. As a result of the demand by the public for changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated, including a call for more stringent legislation and regulation in the United States and abroad.  The Dodd-Frank Act enacted sweeping changes and an unprecedented increase in the supervision and regulation of the financial services industry (see Item 1, \"Regulation,\" in this report for a discussion of such changes).  The ultimate impact that the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations will have on us, the financial industry and the economy at large cannot be quantified until all of the implementing regulations called for under the legislation have been finalized and fully implemented.  Nevertheless, it is apparent that these legislative and regulatory changes could affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, impact the value of our assets, require us to alter at least some of our business practices, impose additional compliance costs, and otherwise adversely affect our businesses.. The Dodd-Frank Act impacts the manner in which we market our products and services, manage our business and operations, and interact with regulators, all of which could materially impact our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have or may impact our businesses include: the establishment of a fiduciary standard for broker-dealers; regulatory oversight of incentive compensation; the imposition of capital requirements on financial holding companies; prohibition of proprietary trading; restrictions on investments in covered funds; and, to a lesser extent, greater oversight over derivatives trading.  There is also increased regulatory scrutiny (and related compliance costs) as we continue to grow and surpass certain consolidated asset thresholds established under the Dodd-Frank Act, which have the effect of imposing enhanced standards and requirements on larger institutions.  These include, but are not limited to, RJ Bank's oversight by the CFPB.  The CFPB has had an active enforcement agenda and any action taken by the CFPB could result in requirements to alter or cease offering affected products and services, make such products and services less attractive, impose additional compliance measures, or result in fines, penalties or required remediation.  To the extent the Dodd-Frank Act impacts the operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements of unaffiliated financial institutions with whom we transact business, those institutions may seek to pass on increased costs, reduce their capacity to transact, or otherwise present inefficiencies in their interactions with us.  We are also required to comply with the Volcker Rule's provisions.  Although we have not historically engaged in significant levels of proprietary trading, due to our underwriting and market-making activities and our investments in covered funds, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased operational and compliance costs and changes to our private equity investments.  Any changes to regulations or changes to the supervisory approach may also result in increased compliance costs to the extent we are required to modify our existing compliance policies, procedures and practices.. Broker-dealers and investment advisors are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including, but not limited to: sales and trading methods; trade practices among broker-dealers; use and safekeeping of clients' funds and securities; capital structure of securities firms; anti-money laundering efforts; recordkeeping; and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.  Any violation of these laws or regulations could subject us to the following events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects: civil and criminal liability; sanctions, which could include the revocation of our subsidiaries' registrations as investment advisors or broker-dealers; the revocation of the licenses of our financial advisors; censures; fines; or a temporary suspension or permanent bar from conducting business.. The majority of our affiliated financial advisors are independent contractors.  Legislative or regulatory action that redefines the criteria for determining whether a person is an employee or an independent contractor could materially impact our relationships with our advisors and our business, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Regulatory actions brought against us may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties or other results, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There is no assurance that regulators will be satisfied with the policies and procedures implemented by RJF and its subsidiaries.  In addition, from time to time, RJF and its affiliates may become subject to additional findings with respect to supervisory, compliance or other regulatory deficiencies, which could subject us to additional liability, including penalties, and restrictions on our business activities.  Among other things, these restrictions could limit our ability to make investments, complete acquisitions, expand into new business lines, pay dividends and/or engage in share. 25. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. repurchases.  See Item 1, \"Regulation,\" in this report for additional information regarding our regulatory environment and Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Management,\" in this report regarding our approaches to managing regulatory risk.. Changes in regulations resulting from the DOL Rule, including the DOL fiduciary standard, may adversely affect our businesses.. The DOL Rule became effective earlier in the year, subject to a transition period until January 2018 applying to both the BIC Exemption and Principal Transactions Exemption.  Although we have undertaken a comprehensive plan to comply with the DOL Rule given that qualified accounts, particularly IRA accounts, comprise a significant portion of our business, we expect that compliance with the DOL Rule and reliance on the BIC Exemption and the Principal Transactions Exemption will require us to continue to incur increased legal, compliance and information technology costs.  We anticipate that if the DOL Rule is amended, a rule imposing heightened standards on broker-dealers is adopted by the SEC, or fiduciary rules are adopted at the state level, we will be required to incur additional costs in order to review and possibly modify our compliance plan and approach.  Implementation of the DOL Rule, any amendments to the rule, and any rules addressing similar matters will negatively impact our results including the impact of increased costs related to compliance, legal and information technology.  In addition, we expect that our legal risks will increase, in part, as a result of the new contractual rights required to be given to IRA and non-ERISA plan clients under the BIC Exemption and Principal Transactions Exemption.. Numerous regulatory changes, and enhanced regulatory and enforcement activity, relating to the asset management business may increase our compliance and legal costs and otherwise adversely affect our business.. The SEC has proposed certain measures that would establish a new framework to replace the requirements of Rule 12b-1 under the 1940 Act with respect to how mutual funds pay fees to cover the costs of selling and marketing their shares.  The staff of the SEC's Office of Compliance, Inspections and Examinations has indicated that it is reviewing the use of fund assets to pay for fees to sub-transfer agents and sub-administrators for services that may be deemed to be distribution-related.  Any adoption of such measures would be phased in over a number of years.  As these measures are neither final nor undergoing implementation throughout the financial services industry, their impact cannot be fully ascertained at this time.  As this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results.. Asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries, which have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers. As some of our wholly owned subsidiaries are registered as investment advisors with the SEC, increased regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in augmented operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities.  It is not possible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law.  Conformance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business.  For example, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC was charged with considering whether broker-dealers should be subject to a standard of care similar to the fiduciary standard applicable to registered investment advisors.  It is not clear whether the SEC will determine that a heightened standard of conduct is appropriate for broker-dealers; however, any such standard, if mandated, would likely require us to review our product and service offerings and implement certain changes, as well as require that we incur additional regulatory costs in order to ensure compliance.. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments have recently taken regulatory actions impacting the investment management industry, and may continue to take further actions, including expanding current (or enacting new) standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries.  For example, several states and municipalities in the United States have adopted \"pay-to-play\" rules, which could limit our ability to charge advisory fees.  Such \"pay-to-play\" rules could affect the profitability of that portion of our business.  Additionally, the use of \"soft dollars,\" where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, is periodically reexamined and may be limited or modified in the future.  A substantial portion of the research relied on by our investment management business in the investment decision making process is generated internally by our investment analysts and external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars.  This external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services.  If the use of soft dollars is limited, we may have to bear some of these additional costs.  Furthermore, new regulations regarding the management of hedge funds and the use of certain investment products may impact our asset management business and result in increased costs.  For example, many regulators around the world adopted disclosure and reporting requirements relating to the hedge fund business or other businesses, and changes to the laws, rules and regulations in the U.S. related to the over-the-counter swaps and derivatives markets require additional registration, record keeping and reporting obligations.. 26. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. Failure to comply with regulatory capital requirements primarily applicable to RJF, RJ Bank or our broker-dealer subsidiaries would significantly harm our business.. RJF and RJ Bank are subject to various regulatory and capital requirements administered by various federal regulators in the United States and, accordingly, must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of RJF and RJ Bank's assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.  The capital amounts and classification for both RJF and RJ Bank are also subject to qualitative judgments by U. S. federal regulators based on components of our capital, risk-weightings of assets, off-balance sheet transactions, and other factors.  Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require RJF and RJ Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total capital to risk-weighted assets, Tier 1 capital to average assets and capital conservation buffers (as defined in the regulations).  Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can trigger certain mandatory (and potentially additional discretionary) actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could harm either RJF or RJ Bank's operations and financial condition.  As more fully discussed in Item 1, \"Regulation,\" in this report, RJF and RJ Bank are required to perform annual stress tests using certain scenarios provided by the Fed.  While we believe that both the quality and size of our capital base is sufficient to support our current operations given our risk profile, the results of the stress testing process may affect our approach to managing and deploying capital.. We are subject to the SEC's uniform net capital rule (Rule 15c3-1) and FINRA's net capital rule, which may limit our ability to make withdrawals of capital from our broker-dealer subsidiaries.  The uniform net capital rule sets the minimum level of net capital that a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a portion of its assets be relatively liquid.  FINRA may prohibit a member firm from expanding its business or paying cash dividends if resulting net capital falls below certain thresholds.  In addition, our Canada-based broker-dealer subsidiary is subject to similar limitations under applicable regulation in that jurisdiction by IIROC.  Regulatory capital requirements applicable to some of our significant subsidiaries may impede access to funds that RJF needs to make payments on any such obligations.. See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for further information on regulations and capital requirements.. The Basel III regulatory capital standards impose additional capital and other requirements on us that could decrease our profitability.. In July 2013, the Fed, the OCC and the FDIC released final U.S. Basel III Rules, which implemented the global regulatory capital reforms of Basel III and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The U.S. Basel III Rules increase the quantity and quality of regulatory capital, establish a capital conservation buffer and make selected changes to the calculation of risk-weighted assets.  We became subject to the requirements under the final U.S. Basel III Rules as of January 1, 2015, subject to a phase-in period for several of its provisions, including the new minimum capital ratio requirements, the capital conservation buffer and the regulatory capital adjustments and deductions.  The increased capital requirements stipulated under the U.S. Basel III Rules could restrict our ability to grow during favorable market conditions or require us to raise additional capital.  As a result, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.. As a financial holding company, RJF's liquidity depends on payments from its subsidiaries, which may be subject to regulatory restrictions.. RJF is a financial holding company and therefore depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries in order to meet its obligations, including its debt service obligations.  RJF's subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to prevent or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to RJF.  RJF's broker-dealers and bank subsidiary are limited in their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and are subject to minimum regulatory capital and other requirements, as well as limitations on their ability to use funds deposited with them in broker or bank accounts to fund their businesses.  These requirements may hinder RJF's ability to access funds from its subsidiaries.  RJF may also become subject to a prohibition or limitations on its ability to pay dividends or repurchase its common stock.  The federal banking regulators, including the OCC, the Fed and the FDIC, as well as the SEC (through FINRA) have the authority and under certain circumstances, the obligation, to limit or prohibit dividend payments and stock repurchases by the banking organizations they supervise, including RJF and its bank subsidiaries.  See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in this report for additional information on liquidity and how we manage our liquidity risk.. 27. RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES. RJ Bank is subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to penalties.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other U.S. federal fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions.  The U.S. Department of Justice and other federal agencies, including the CFPB, are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations.  A successful challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil monetary penalties, injunctive relief, and the imposition of restrictions on mergers, acquisitions and expansion activity.  Private parties may also have the ability to challenge a financial institution's performance under fair lending laws by bringing private class action litigation."
