[1] "Item 1A  -  Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risk.  Set forth below is a summary of various risk factors that you should consider in connection with your investment in our Company. This summary should be considered in the context of our overall Annual Report on Form 10-K, as many of the topics addressed below, and our plans to address or mitigate the risks involved, are discussed in significantly greater detail in the context of specific discussions of our business plan, our operating results, and the various competitive forces that we face.. BUSINESS RISK FACTORS. We are currently engaged principally in the cinema exhibition and real estate businesses.  Because we operate in two business segments (cinema exhibition and real estate), we discuss separately below the risks we believe to be material to our involvement in each of these segments. We have discussed separately certain risks relating to the international nature of our business activities, our use of leverage, and our status as a controlled corporation.  Please note that, while we report the results of our live theater operations as real estate operations  -  because we are principally in the business of renting space to producers rather than in producing plays ourselves  -  the cinema exhibition and live theater businesses share certain risk factors and are, accordingly, discussed together below.. Cinema Exhibition and Live Theater Business Risk Factors. We operate in a highly competitive environment with many competitors who are significantly larger and may have significantly better access to funds than we do.  We are a comparatively small cinema operator and face competition from much larger cinema exhibitors.  These larger exhibitors are able to offer distributors more screens in more markets  -  including markets where they may be the exclusive exhibitor  -  than can we.  Faced with such competition, we may not be able to get access to all of the films we want, which may adversely affect our revenue and profitability.  While we are concerned about the use of larger competitors of national and international booking power to limit our access to film, there is little we can do to mitigate this risk as antitrust litigation is very expensive and typically long lived.  While several private lawsuits are currently pending challenging the practice of certain competitors to prevent or limit their access to film product, these are private lawsuits.  We have no control over the prosecution of such lawsuits or the terms on which they may be privately resolved or settled.  While several distributors have announced that they will generally provide access of film to all who desire it, this practice is not universal.  Also, for major films, like the most recent installment of Star Wars, the terms of exhibition as a practical matter limited the competitors who could exhibit the film.   This competitive disadvantage has been, in our view, exacerbated in recent periods with the further concentration of the cinema exhibition industry, for example, Cineworld Group Plc's  acquisition of Regal Entertainment Group and  Dalian Wanda's acquisition of AMC Entertainment,  which, had previously acquired Carmike Cinemas, Odeon & UCI Cinemas Group and Nordic Cinema Group.. These larger competitors may also enjoy (i) greater cash flow, which can be used to develop additional cinemas, including cinemas that may be competitive with our existing cinemas, (ii) better access to equity capital and debt, (iii) better visibility to landlords and real estate developers, and (iv) better economies of scale than us.. In the case of our live theaters, we compete for shows not only with other \"for profit\" Off-Broadway theaters, but also with \"not-for-profit\" operators and, increasingly, with Broadway theaters.  We believe our live theaters are generally competitive with other Off-Broadway venues.  However, due to the increased cost of staging live theater productions, we are seeing an increasing tendency for plays that would historically have been staged in an Off-Broadway theater moving directly to larger Broadway venues.  In 2016, we closed our principal live theater in New York, the Union Square.. We face competition from other sources of entertainment and other entertainment delivery systems.  Both our cinema and live theater operations face competition from \"in-home\" and mobile device sources of entertainment. These include competition from network, cable and satellite television, internet streaming video services, Video on Demand, Blu-ray/DVD, the internet, video games and other sources of entertainment. The quality of \"in-home\" and mobile entertainment systems, as well as programming available on an in-home and mobile basis, has increased, while the cost to consumers of such systems (and such programming) has decreased in recent periods, and some consumers may prefer the security and/or convenience of an \"in-home\" or mobile entertainment experience to the more public and presentation oriented experience offered by our cinemas and live theaters. Film distributors have been responding to these developments by, in some cases, decreasing or eliminating the period of time between cinema release and the date such product is made available to \"in-home\" or mobile forms of distribution.. There is the risk that, over time, distributors may move towards simultaneous release of motion picture product in multiple channels of distribution. Also, some traditional in-home and mobile distributors have begun the production of full-length movies, specifically for the purpose of direct or simultaneous release to the in-home and mobile markets. These factors may adversely affect the competitive advantage enjoyed by cinemas over \"in-home\" and mobile forms of entertainment, as it may be that the cinema market and the \"in-home\" and mobile markets will have simultaneous access to the same motion picture product. In recent times, a number of movies were released on a simultaneous basis to movie exhibitors and to in-home and mobile markets. It is likely that this trend will continue, making it, in our view, increasingly important for exhibitors to enhance the convenience and quality of the theater-going experience.   This can require substantial capital outlays and increased labor expense, which exhibitors may not be able to fully pass on to their customers.   Also, the amount of programming (including without limitation, the live streaming of sporting, theatrical and political events) available on an \"in-home\" and mobile basis continues to increase.. 18. The narrowing and/or elimination of this so-called \"window\" for cinema exhibition may be problematic for the cinema exhibition industry.  However, to date, attempts by the major film distributors to continue to narrow or eliminate the window have  been strenuously resisted by the cinema exhibition industry, and we view the total elimination of the cinema exhibition window by major film distributors, while theoretically possible, to be unlikely.. We also face competition from various other forms of \"beyond-the-home\" entertainment, including sporting events, concerts, restaurants, casinos, video game arcades, and nightclubs. Our cinemas also face competition from live theaters and vice versa.  Also, social media offerings  -  such as Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat  -  appear to be commanding increasing portions of the recreational time of our potential audience.. Our cinema and live theater businesses may be vulnerable to fears of terrorism and random shooter incidents which could cause customers to avoid public assembly seating, and natural disasters.  Political events, such as terrorist attacks, random shooter incidents and health-related epidemics, such as flu outbreaks, could cause patrons to avoid our cinemas or other public places where large crowds are in attendance. In addition, a natural disaster, such as a typhoon or an earthquake, could impact our ability to operate certain of our cinemas, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our cinema operations depend upon access to film and alternative entertainment product that is attractive to our patrons, and our live theater operations depend upon the continued attractiveness of our theaters to producers.  Our ability to generate revenue and profits is largely dependent on factors outside of our control, specifically, the continued ability of motion picture, alternative entertainment and live theater producers to produce films, alternative entertainment and plays that are attractive to audiences, the amount of money spent by film and alternative entertainment distributors and theatrical producers to promote their motion pictures, alternative entertainment and plays, and the willingness of these distributors and producers to license their films and alternative entertainment on terms that are financially viable to our cinemas and to rent our theaters for the presentation of their plays.  To the extent that popular movies, alternative entertainment and plays are produced, our cinema and live theater activities are ultimately dependent upon our ability, in the face of competition from other cinema and live theater operators to book such movies, alternative entertainment and plays into our facilities, and to provide a superior customer offering.. We rely on film distributors to supply the films shown in our theatres. In North America, the film distribution business is highly concentrated, with seven major film distributors accounting for approximately 87.9% of box office revenues. Numerous antitrust cases and the consent decree resulting from these antitrust cases affect the distribution of films. Consequently, we cannot guarantee a supply of films by entering into long-term arrangements with major distributors. We are therefore required to negotiate licenses for each film and for each theatre. A deterioration of our relationship with any of the seven major film distributors could adversely affect our ability to obtain commercially successful films and to negotiate favorable licensing terms for such films, both of which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. In the U.S., at least until recently, distributors have had broad discretion not to show the same film at competitive cinemas.   This has, in many situations, given the larger exhibitors (as a result of their market power) power to influence distributors to exercise their discretion in this regard in favor of the larger exhibitors.   In this industry, this is called \"clearance.\"  Recent judicial decisions, however, have thrown doubt on the extent to which this practice will continue to be permitted under applicable antitrust laws.  Several major distributors have advised the market that they will no longer clear their films.. Adverse economic conditions could materially affect our business by reducing discretionary income and by limiting or reducing sources of film and live theater funding.  Cinema and live theater attendance is a luxury, not a necessity.  Furthermore, consumer demand for better and better amenities and food offerings have resulted in an increase of the cost of a night at the movies.  Accordingly, a decline in the economy resulting in a decrease in discretionary income, or a perception of such a decline, may result in decreased discretionary spending, which could adversely affect our cinema and live theater businesses. Adverse economic conditions can also affect the supply side of our business, as reduced liquidity can adversely affect the availability of funding for movies and plays.  This is particularly true in the case of Off-Broadway plays, which are often times financed by high net worth individuals (or groups of such individuals) and that are very risky due to the absence of any ability to recoup investment in secondary markets like Blu-ray/DVD, cable, satellite or internet distribution.. Our screen advertising or auditorium leasing revenue may decline.  Over the past several years, cinema exhibitors have been looking increasingly to screen advertising and auditorium leasing as a way to improve income.  No assurances can be given that this source of income will be continuing, or that the use of screen advertising will not ultimately prove to be counterproductive, by giving consumers a disincentive to choose going to the movies over \"in-home\" or mobile entertainment alternatives.. We face uncertainty as to the timing and direction of technological innovations in the cinema exhibition business and as to our access to those technologies.  We have converted all of our cinema auditoriums to digital projection.  However, no assurances can be given that other technological advances will not require us to make further material investments in our cinemas or face loss of business.  Also, equipment is currently being developed for holographic or laser projection. The future of these technologies in the cinema exhibition industry is uncertain.. 19. We face competition from competitors offering food and beverage and luxury seating as an integral part of their cinema offerings.  A number of our competitors offering an expanded food and beverage menu (including the sale of alcoholic beverages) and luxury seating, have emerged in recent periods. In addition, some competitors such as AMC are converting existing cinemas to provide such expanded menu offerings and in-theater dining options. The existence of such cinemas may alter traditional cinema selection practices of moviegoers, as they seek out cinemas with such expanded offerings as a preferred alternative to traditional cinemas.  In order to compete with these new cinemas,  the Company has begun to materially increase its capital expenditures to add such features to many of our cinemas and to take on additional and more highly trained (and, consequently, compensated) staff.  Also, the conversion to luxury seating typically requires a material reduction in the number of seats that an auditorium can accommodate.. We may be subject to increased labor and benefits costs generally.  We are subject to laws governing such matters as minimum wages, working conditions and overtime. As minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. Labor shortages, increased employee turnover and health care mandates could also increase our labor costs. This in turn could lead us to increase prices which could impact our sales. Conversely, if competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting increased labor costs by increases in prices, our results of operations may be adversely impacted.. Cyber security threats and our failure to protect our electronically stored data could adversely affect our business.  We store and maintain electronic information and data necessary to conduct our business.  Data maintained in electronic form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering and theft. While we have adopted industry-accepted security measures and technology to protect the confidential and proprietary information, the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. As such, we may be unable to anticipate and implement adequate preventive measures in time. This may adversely affect our business, including exposure to government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our reputation with our customers and employees may be injured. In addition to Company-specific cyber threats or attacks, our business and results of operations could also be impacted by breaches affecting our peers and partners within the entertainment industry, as well as other retail companies.. Real Estate Development and Ownership Business Risks. We operate in a highly competitive environment in which we must compete against companies with much greater financial and human resources than we have.  We have limited financial and human resources, compared to our principal real estate competitors.  In recent periods, we have relied heavily on outside professionals in connection with our real estate development activities.  Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale than we can.  Given our structure as a taxable corporation, our cost of capital is typically higher than other real estate investment vehicles such as real estate investment trusts.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Generally. Our financial performance will be affected by risks associated with the real estate industry generally.  Events and conditions generally applicable to developers, owners, and operators of real property will affect our performance as well.  These include (i) changes in the national, regional and local economic climate, (ii) local conditions, such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, commercial space and/or entertainment-oriented properties, (iii) reduced attractiveness of our properties to tenants, (iv) the rental rates and capitalization rates applicable to the markets in which we operate and the quality of properties that we own, (v) competition from other properties, (vi) inability to collect rent from tenants, (vii) increased operating costs, including labor, materials, real estate taxes, insurance premiums, and utilities, (viii) costs of complying with changes in government regulations, (ix) the relative illiquidity of real estate investments, and (x) decreases in sources of both construction and long-term lending as traditional sources of such funding leave or reduce their commitments to real estate-based lending.  In addition, periods of rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate (for example, due to competition from internet sellers the demand for brick and mortar retail spaces may decline, and due to the increasing popularity of tele-commuting demand for traditional office space may decline), or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in declining rents or increased lease defaults. Increasing cap rates can result in lower property values.  Also, we have holdings in areas that are subject to earthquake, storm and flooding risk.. We may incur costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.  Under the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar statutory regimes in Australia and New Zealand or under applicable state or local law, all places of public accommodation (including cinemas and theaters) are required to meet certain governmental requirements related to access and use by persons with disabilities.  A determination that we are not in compliance with those governmental requirements with respect to any of our properties could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants.  The cost of addressing these issues could be substantial.. 20. Illiquidity of real estate investments could impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties.  Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.  Many of our properties are either (i) \"special purpose\" properties that could not be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use, or (ii) undeveloped land.  In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment, and competitive factors may prevent the pass-through of such costs to tenants.. Real estate development involves a variety of risks.. Real estate development involves a variety of risks, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe identification and acquisition of suitable development properties. Competition for suitable development properties is intense. Our ability to identify and acquire development properties may be limited by our size and resources. Also, as we and our affiliates are considered to be \"foreign owned\" for purposes of certain Australian and New Zealand statutes, we have been in the past, and may in the future be, subject to regulations that are not applicable to other persons doing business in those countries..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe procurement of necessary land use entitlements for the project.  This process can take many years, particularly if opposed by competing interests.  Competitors and community groups (sometimes funded by such competitors) may object based on various factors, including, for example, impacts on density, parking, traffic, noise levels and the historic or architectural nature of the building being replaced. If they are unsuccessful at the local governmental level, they may seek recourse to the courts or other tribunals.  This can delay projects and increase costs..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe construction of the project on time and on budget.  Construction risks include the availability and cost of financing; the availability and costs of material and labor; the costs of dealing with unknown site conditions (including addressing pollution or environmental wastes deposited upon the property by prior owners); inclement weather conditions; and the ever-present potential for labor-related disruptions..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe leasing or sell-out of the project.  Ultimately, there are risks involved in the leasing of a rental property or the sale of a condominium or built-for-sale property.  For our ETCs, the extent to which our cinemas can continue to serve as an anchor tenant will be influenced by the same factors as will influence generally the results of our cinema operations.  Leasing or sale can be influenced by economic factors that are neither known nor knowable at the commencement of the development process and by local, national, and even international economic conditions, both real and perceived..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe refinancing of completed properties.  Properties are often developed using relatively short-term loans.  Upon completion of the project, it may be necessary to find replacement financing for these loans.  This process involves risk as to the availability of such permanent or other take-out financing, the interest rates, and the payment terms applicable to such financing, which may be adversely influenced by local, national, or international factors.. The ownership of properties involves risk.  The ownership of investment properties involves risks, such as:  (i) ongoing leasing and re-leasing risks, (ii) ongoing financing and re-financing risks, (iii) market risks as to the multiples offered by buyers of investment properties, (iv) risks related to the ongoing compliance with changing governmental regulation (including, without limitation, environmental laws and requirements to remediate environmental contamination that may exist on a property (such as, by way of example, asbestos), even though not deposited on the property by us), (v) relative illiquidity compared to some other types of assets, and (vi) susceptibility of assets to uninsurable risks, such as biological, chemical or nuclear terrorism, or risks that are subject to caps tied to the concentration of such assets in certain geographic areas, such as earthquakes. Furthermore, as our properties are typically developed around an entertainment use, the attractiveness of these properties to tenants, sources of finance and real estate investors will be influenced by market perceptions of the benefits and detriments of such entertainment-type properties.. A number of our assets are in geologically active areas, presenting risk of earthquake and land movement.  We have properties in California and New Zealand, areas that present a greater risk of earthquake and/or land movement than other locations. New Zealand has in recent periods had several major earthquakes damaging our facilities in Christchurch and Wellington. The ability to insure for such casualties is limited and may become more difficult and/or more expensive in future periods.. We may be subject to liability under environmental laws and regulations.  We own and operate a large number of cinemas and other properties within the U.S. and internationally, which may be subject to various foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment or human health. Such environmental laws and regulations include those that impose liability for the investigation and remediation of spills or releases of hazardous materials. We may incur such liability, including for any currently or formerly owned, leased or operated property, or for any site, to which we may have disposed, or arranged for the disposal of, hazardous materials or wastes. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose liability, including on a joint and several liability, which can result in a liable party being obliged to pay for greater than its share, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. Environmental conditions relating to our properties or operations could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations and cash flows.. 21. Legislative or regulatory initiatives related to global warming/climate change concerns may negatively impact our business.  Recently, there has been an increasing focus and continuous debate on global climate change including increased attention from regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts in the U.S. to combat climate change could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials, taxes, transportation and utilities for our vendors and for us which would result in higher operating costs for the Company. Also, compliance by our cinemas and accompanying real estate with new and revised environmental, zoning, land-use or building codes, laws, rules or regulations, could have a material and adverse effect on our business. However, we are unable to predict at this time, the potential effects, if any, that any future environmental initiatives may have on our business.. International Business Risks. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCurrency Risk: while we report our earnings and net assets in U.S. dollars, substantial portions of our revenue and of our obligations are denominated in either Australian or New Zealand dollars. The value of these currencies can vary significantly compared to the U.S. dollar and compared to each other. We do not hedge the currency risk, but rather have relied upon the natural hedges that exist as a result of the fact that our film costs are typically fixed as a percentage of the box office, and our local operating costs and obligations are likewise typically denominated in local currencies. However, we do have intercompany debt and our ability to service this debt could be adversely impacted by declines in the relative value of the Australian and New Zealand dollar compared to the U.S. dollar.  Also, our use of local borrowings to mitigate the business risk of currency fluctuations has reduced our flexibility to move cash between jurisdictions.  Set forth below is a chart of the exchange ratios between these three currencies since 1996:. In recent periods, we have repaid intercompany debt and used the proceeds to fund capital investment in the United States.  Accordingly, our debt levels in Australia are higher than they would have been if funds had not been returned for such purposes.  On a company wide basis, this means that a reduction in the relative strength of the US dollar versus the Australian Dollar and/or the New Zealand dollar will effectively raise the overall cost of our borrowing and capital and make it more expensive to return funds from the United States to Australia and New Zealand.. <U+FEFF>.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk of adverse government regulation: currently, we believe that relations between the United States, Australia, and New Zealand are good.  However, no assurances can be given that these relationships will continue and that Australia and New Zealand will not in the future seek to regulate more highly the business done by U.S. companies in their countries.. 22.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk of adverse labor relations: deterioration in labor relations could lead to an increased cost of labor (including future government requirements with respect to pension liabilities, disability insurance and health coverage, and vacations and leave).. Risks Associated with Certain Discontinued Operations. Certain of our subsidiaries were previously in industrial businesses. As a consequence, properties that are currently owned or may have in the past been owned, by these subsidiaries may prove to have environmental issues.  Where we have knowledge of such environmental issues and are in a position to make an assessment as to our exposure, we have established what we believe to be appropriate reserves, but we are exposed to the risk that currently unknown problems may be discovered. These subsidiaries are also exposed to potential claims related to exposure of former employees to coal dust, asbestos, and other materials now considered to be, or which in the future may be found to be, carcinogenic or otherwise injurious to health.. Operating, Financial Structure and Borrowing Risk. From time to time, we may have negative working capital.  In recent years, as we have invested our cash in new acquisitions and the development of our existing properties, we have had negative working capital. This negative working capital is typical in the cinema exhibition industry because our short-term liabilities are in part financing our long-term assets instead of long-term liabilities financing short-term assets, as is the case in other industries such as manufacturing and distribution.. We are subject to complex taxation, changes in tax rates, adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation and disagreements with tax authorities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations We are subject to many different forms of taxation in both the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions where we operate, such as the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law in December 2017. The new laws are still evolving and require we interpret the provisions of the law as we try to comply with them. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and may subject us to significant liabilities and other penalties.. We have substantial short to medium term debt.  Generally speaking, we have historically financed our operations through relatively short-term debt.  No assurances can be given that we will be able to refinance this debt, or if we can, that the terms will be reasonable.  However, as a counterbalance to this debt, we have certain unencumbered real property assets, which could be sold to pay debt or encumbered to assist in the refinancing of existing debt, if necessary.. We have substantial lease liabilities.  Most of our cinemas operate in leased facilities. These leases typically have \"cost of living\" or other rent adjustment features and require that we operate the properties as cinemas.  A downturn in our cinema exhibition business might, depending on its severity, adversely affect the ability of our cinema operating subsidiaries to meet these rental obligations.  Even if our cinema exhibition business remains relatively constant, cinema level cash flow will likely be adversely affected unless we can increase our revenue sufficiently to offset increases in our rental liabilities. Unlike property rental leases, our newly added digital equipment leases do not have \"cost of living\" or other lease adjustment features.. Our stock is thinly traded.  Our stock is thinly traded, with an average daily volume in 2017 of only approximately 41,000 Class A Stock.  Our Class B Stock is very thinly traded with even less volume.  This can result in significant volatility, as demand by buyers and sellers can easily get out of balance.. Ownership and Management Structure, Corporate Governance, and Change of Control Risks. Pending disputes among the heirs of James J. Cotter, Sr., have over the past two years caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty regarding the ongoing control of the Company by the Cotter family and have distracted and may continue to distract the time and attention of our officers and directors from our business and operations and may ultimately interfere with the effective management of the Company.  Up until his death on September 13, 2014, James J. Cotter, Sr., the father of Ellen Cotter, James J. Cotter, Jr. and Margaret Cotter, was our controlling stockholder, having the sole power to vote approximately 66.9% of the outstanding voting stock of the Company.  Under applicable Nevada Law, a stockholder holding more than 2/3rds of the Company's voting stock has the power at any time, with or without cause, to remove any one or more directors (up to and including the entire board of directors) by written consent taken without a meeting of the stockholders.. <U+FEFF>. 23. Since his death, disputes have arisen among Ellen Cotter, James J. Cotter, Jr. and Margaret Cotter concerning the voting control of those shares and regarding the exercise by the Estate of James J. Cotter, Sr. Deceased (the \"Cotter Estate\") of options to acquire an additional 100,000 shares of Class B Stock.  At the present time, Ellen Cotter is the Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of our Company.  James J. Cotter, Jr. is a director and from June 2013 until June 12, 2015 was the President and from August 7, 2014 until June 12, 2015 was the Chief Executive Officer of our Company, having been removed from those positions by Board action on June 12, 2015.  Margaret Cotter is the Vice-Chair of our Company, Executive Vice-President  -  Real Estate Management and Development, NYC and the President of Liberty Theaters, LLC, the company through which we own and operate our live theaters.  She heads up the management and redevelopment of our New York properties.. <U+FEFF>. As of December 31, 2017, according to the books of the Company, the Living Trust established by the Declaration of Trust dated June 5, 2013, by James J. Cotter, Sr. (the \"Cotter Trust\"), held of record 696,080 shares of our Class B  Stock  constituting approximately 41.4% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock.  According to the books of the Company, the Cotter Estate as of that date held of record an additional 427,808 shares of Class B Stock, constituting approximately 25.5% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. We are advised, based upon public filings made by one or more of Ellen Cotter, Margaret Cotter and James J. Cotter, Jr. (the \"Cotter Filings\") that the Class B Stock currently held of record by the Cotter Estate will eventually pour over into the Cotter Trust.  We are further advised from the Cotter Filings that the Cotter Trust also provides for the establishment of a voting trust (the \"Cotter Voting Trust\") which will eventually hold the Class B Stock currently held by the Cotter Estate and the Cotter Trust.  At the present time, however, such Class B Stock is held of record by the Cotter Trust and the Cotter Estate, respectively.. <U+FEFF>. On December 22, 2014, the District Court of Clark County, Nevada, (the \"Nevada District Court\") appointed Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter as co-executors of the Cotter Estate.  While no final ruling has been entered, the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles (the \"California Superior Court\"), in the case captioned In re James J. Cotter Living Trust dated August 1, 2000 (Case No. BP159755) (the \"Trust Case\"), has issued its Statement of Decision to the effect that  (subject to appeal) Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter are the Co-Trustees of the Cotter Trust and that Margaret Cotter is the sole Trustee of the Voting Trust.  Accordingly, in the view of the Company, Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter have voting control over the shares held by the Cotter Trust and the Cotter Estate, collectively representing  66.9% of our Company's Class B Stock.  Taking into account Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter's personal holdings of voting stock, Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter have the power to vote 71.9% of our Company's voting stock.  However, there is no assurance that James Cotter, Jr., upon the issuance of a final ruling, will not appeal this decision by the California Superior Court.. <U+FEFF>. We understand from public filings made by Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter and public filings made by James J. Cotter, that James J. Cotter, Jr. is the first alternate trustee of the Voting Trust, in the event that Margaret Cotter is unable or unwilling to serve as trustee.. <U+FEFF>. While our Company is not a party to the Trust Case, our Company has appeared to  protect (a) the business plan adopted by our Board of Directors and its determination that stockholder interests are best achieved by continuing with that business plan rather than selling the Company at this time and (b) in the event that the California Court were to disregard the advice of our Board and order that a controlling interest in our Company be marketed or sold,  that the interests of our Company and stockholders generally are protected.   Our Company's participation in the Trust Case since August 2017 has been overseen by a Special Independent Committee of the Board of Directors chaired by our Lead Independent Director, Mr. William Gould, and comprised, in addition to Mr. Gould, of directors Doug McEachern and Judy Codding.. <U+FEFF>. On February 8, 2017, James Cotter, Jr. filed in the Trust Case an Ex Parte Petition for Appointment of a trustee ad litem and of a guardian ad litem for the benefit of Cotter, Sr.'s, minor grandchildren (two of whom are the children of Margaret Cotter and three of whom are the children of James Cotter, Jr., and who are referred to herein as the \"Cotter Grandchildren\").  Mr. Cotter, Jr., sought the appointment of a trustee ad litem, to evaluate the non-binding indication of interest sent by Patton Vision, LLC (\"Patton Vision\"), to the Trustees of the Cotter Trust to acquire the RDI shares held by the Cotter Trust at $18.50 per share (referred to in Mr. Cotter, Jr's pleadings as the \"Offer\") and to take reasonable steps to act on the Offer in the trustee's sole discretion.  Specifically, Mr. Cotter Jr. sought an order \"granting the trustee ad litem with full power, authority, and protections under the Cotter Trust and California trust law, as any other named trustee would have, to evaluate the Offer, conduct due diligence, negotiate with Patton Vision or any other potential offerors, and take all actions necessary or appropriate to consummate the sale of the Cotter Trust's RDI shares, including but not limited to:. <U+FEFF>. a. \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcommunicate solely with Patton Vision regarding their Offer to purchase the Cotter Trust's RDI shares;. b. \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treceive solely and exclusively all offers for the purchase of the Cotter Trust's RDI shares;. c. \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into purchase and sale agreements with respect to the Cotter Trust's RDI shares;. d. \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttake all actions necessary to carry out the terms, conditions, and obligations of any purchase and sale agreement with respect to the Cotter Trust's RDI shares, including negotiating any modifications thereto;. e. \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treceive all proceeds of sale from the Cotter Trust's RDI shares;. f. \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treturn to the co-trustees of the Cotter Trust, namely Margaret Cotter, Ellen Cotter, and James J. Cotter, Jr., net proceeds of the sale of the Cotter Trust's RDI shares to be invested, managed and distributed in accordance with the terms of the Cotter Trust;. g. \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thire investment advisors, tax advisors, accountants, attorneys, or any other advisors the trustee ad litem deems necessary and reasonable, in his or her sole discretion, to carry out his powers; and,. 24. h. \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttemporarily suspending James J. Cotter, Jr., Margaret and Ellen's powers with respect to all of the foregoing matters until further order of this Court.\". <U+FEFF>. On February 14, 2018, the California Superior Court issued its \"Statement of Decision\" to appoint a temporary trustee ad litem (the \"TTAL\") \"with the narrow and specific authority to obtain offers to purchase the RDI stock in the voting trust, but not to exercise any other powers without court approval, specifically the sale of the company or any other powers possessed by the trustees.\"  We are informed that the Statement of Decision does not become effective until the Superior Court's order is issued and filed, which, as of the date of this filing, has not occurred.  No TTAL has been appointed.  The California Superior Court has directed the parties to either agree upon a TTAL, or in the alternative to submit to the court three acceptable names.  No timeline is specified in the Statement of Decision for the appointment of a TTAL or for the execution of such person's charge to \"obtain offers to purchase RDI stock in the voting trust.\"   In so far as we are aware, based upon public filings and our internal records, at the present time the Voting Trust does not own any shares of RDI stock.   The shares which are anticipated to flow into the Voting Trust are, insofar as our Company is aware, currently owned by the Cotter Estate and the Cotter Trust.. <U+FEFF>. We continue to believe that, whether or not a final determination is made to sell the voting shares, the appointment of a TTAL poses risks to our Company and our stockholders  for a variety of reasons, including the resultant potential for:  (i) distraction of management and key employees from focusing on the conduct of our business, including the implementation of our three year business strategy, (ii) incurrence of additional general and administrative costs due to the need to implement employee retention programs and to incur legal expenses of the type and at levels not typically required in the ordinary conduct of our Company's business, (iii) interference with contractual relationships, negotiations and potential negotiations with third parties important to our Company's business, including, without limitation, current and future lenders, tenants, landlords, suppliers and co-developers, (iv) increased difficulty in hiring and retaining high quality employees and (v) exposure of our Company to potential litigation claims of the type which often accompany any extraordinary corporate transactions together with the expense, distraction and time loss that typically results from any such litigation.  If a decision to sell a controlling interest is made by the California Superior Court, then there would be the additional risk that control might be sold to an unqualified purchaser who might exploit such control position in a manner not consistent with the best interests of our Company or stockholders generally.. <U+FEFF>. Since May 2016, Patton Vision has sent four different indications of interest to us to purchase all of our Company's outstanding shares.  In each case our Board of Directors has determination that our Company and our stockholders would be best served by our continued independence and by our pursuit of our business strategy.  We were informed that on January 23, 2017, Patton Vision separately sent a similar indication of interest to the co-trustees of the Cotter Trust to purchase the Cotter Trust's shares and to the Co-Executors of the Cotter Estate to purchase the Cotter Estate's shares.. <U+FEFF>. On March 2, 2017, our Board of Directors, following consideration and adoption of our three year business strategy, confirmed its determination that our Company and our stockholders would be best served by our continued independence and by our pursuit of our business strategy.  Our Board of Directors instructed our management to inform Patton Vision that our Board had no interest in engaging in discussions regarding our possible sale.  Our Board of Directors took this action in fulfilling its fiduciary duty on behalf of all stockholders, and in this matter, James J. Cotter, Jr., in his capacity as a director of Reading, abstained.. <U+FEFF>. In mid-September, 2017, Director William Gould (our Lead Independent Director and Chair of the Special Independent Committee) received a letter from Patton Vision once again expressing its desire to meet to discuss a potential acquisition of our Company.  The letter referenced the California Superior Court's tentative statement of decision regarding the appointment of a TTAL, stated no specific price or other terms and was, in our view, simply a request to do due diligence on our Company.. In response to the September Patton Vision Letter, the Board reviewed with management the progress being made on the strategic plan previously adopted by the Board, and determined (with Director Cotter, Jr., voting no) that there was no reason to deviate from that strategic plan or to reconsider the Board's prior determination that the best interests of the Company and its stockholders would best be served by continuing to pursue the Company's strategic plan as an independent company. Our Board of Directors instructed management to communicate the Board's determination to Patton Vision. Our Board of Directors will be reviewing our management's updated three year business strategy in late March 2018.. The California Superior Court, in the Trust Case, has jurisdiction over a potentially controlling block of our voting power.  The Cotter Trust, which as described in more detail above, currently owns 41.4% of our Class B Stock, and, at such time as the Cotter Estate is probated, may receive up to an additional 25.5% of our Class B Stock, should the California Superior Court order the sale of the Trusts' Class B Stock and such sale be completed, then there may be a change of control of our Company (depending on, among other things, who the ultimate purchaser(s) of such shares might be, the number of shares of Voting Stock distributed by the Cotter Estate to the Cotter Trust, and whether the California Superior Court orders a sale of all or only some portion to the Class B Stock held by the Cotter Trust).  We cannot predict what reactions, including appeals or other steps, might be taken by Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter in their respective capacities as Trustees under the Cotter Trust, or in other capacities (for example, as Co-Executors of the Cotter Estate, should the California Superior Court make such an order.  We also cannot predict what action our Board of Directors would take in response, if any.  However, our Board of Directors has an obligation to act in the best interest of our Company, and in the event. 25. the California Superior Court were to order a sale of the Class B Stock held by the Cotter Trust, our Board of Directors would be obligated to consider the interests of the Company and to act accordingly.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, James J. Cotter, Jr., has filed a derivative action (discussed in greater detail below) against Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter and certain of our Directors, alleging a variety of misconduct on their part and, among other things, seeking the reinstatement of James J. Cotter, Jr. as president and chief executive officer of our Company, and challenging the voting by Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter of the shares held by the Cotter Estate.  The Nevada District Court dismissed all of Mr. Cotter, Jr.'s derivative claims against Directors Judy Codding, William Gould, Edward L. Kane, Doug McEachern and Michael Wrotniak in December 2017.   See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies - Cotter Jr. Related Litigation Matters (including legal costs coverage).   The Nevada District Court also dismissed all of the Defendant Directors Mr. Cotter, Jr.'s claims against them relating to their handling of the Patton Vision indication of interest.. <U+FEFF>. The Nevada derivative litigation and related matters has for multiple years, required the time and attention of Ellen Cotter, Margaret Cotter, our directors and members of our management team  and could, in the future, potentially further distract the time and attention of these key persons from the business and operations of our Company.. <U+FEFF>. Furthermore, the uncertainty as to the future management and control of our Company could potentially  adversely impact, among other things (i) our ability to develop and maintain favorable business relationships, (ii) our ability to attract and retain talented and experienced directors, executives and employees, (iii) the compensation and other terms needed to attract and retain such individuals (including, without limitation, the potential need for retentions agreements and other incentive arrangements typically put into place when control of a public company is uncertain), (iv) our ability to borrow money on favorable long-term terms, and (v) our ability to pursue and complete long-term business objectives.. <U+FEFF>. The interests of our controlling stockholder may conflict with your interests.  As of December 31, 2017, the Cotter Estate and the Cotter Trust beneficially own 66.9% of our outstanding Class B Stock.  At the present time, according to the books of the Company, Ellen Cotter and Margaret Cotter vote (including their direct holdings of 50,000 shares and 35,100 shares respectively of the Class B Stock), Class B Stock representing 71.9% of our outstanding Class B Stock.  Our Class A Stock is non-voting, while our Class B Stock represents all of the voting power of our Company.  For as long as the Cotter Estate, the Cotter Trust and/or the Cotter Voting Trust (referred to herein collectively as the \"Cotter Entities\") continue to own shares of Class B Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, the Cotter Entities will be able to elect all of the members of our Board of Directors and determine the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including matters involving mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other equity securities and the payment of dividends on common stock. The Cotter Entities will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control, and could take other actions that might be desirable to the Cotter Entities but not to other stockholders.  To the extent that the Cotter Entities hold more than 2/3rds of our outstanding Class B Stock, the Cotter Entities will have the power at any time, with or without cause, to remove any one or more Directors (up to and including the entire board of directors) by written consent taken without a meeting of the stockholders.. In addition, the Cotter Estate or the Cotter Trust and/or their respective affiliates have controlling interests in companies in related and unrelated industries.  In the future, we may participate in transactions with these companies (see Note 18  -  Related Parties).. <U+FEFF>. While controlling stockholders may owe certain fiduciary duties to our Company and/or minority stockholders, these duties are limited.   No assurances can be given that the Cotter Entities will not take action that, while beneficial to them and legally enforceable, would not necessarily be in the best interests of our Company and/or our stockholders generally.. We are a \"Controlled Company\" under applicable NASDAQ Regulations.   As permitted by those Regulations, our Board has elected to opt-out of certain corporate governance rules applicable to non-controlled companies.  Generally speaking, the NASDAQ requires listed companies to meet certain minimum corporate governance provisions.  However, a \"Controlled Company\", such as we, may elect not to be governed by certain of these provisions.  Our Board of Directors has elected to exempt our Company from requirements that (i) at least a majority of our Directors be independent, and (ii) nominees to our Board of Directors be nominated by a committee comprised entirely of independent Directors or by a majority of our Company's independent Directors.  Notwithstanding the determination by our Board of Directors to opt-out of these NASDAQ requirements, we believe that a majority of our Board of Directors is nevertheless currently comprised of independent Directors. In this regard, our Board takes note of the fact that notwithstanding the allegations of Mr. Cotter, Jr., in the Derivative Case, the Nevada District Court has determined that, after more than 30 months of litigation, Mr. Cotter, Jr., has failed to demonstrate any issue of fact as to the independence of five our current nine directors:  Directors Judy Codding, William Gould, Edward L. Kane, Doug McEachern and Michael Wrotniak.   Nominations are considered by the Board, acting as a whole.  While as a Controlled Company, we are not subject to the requirement that the compensation of our Chief Executive Officer be determined or recommended to our Board of Directors by a compensation committee comprised entirely of independent Directors or by a majority of our Company's independent Directors, the current charter of our Compensation and Stock Options Committee nevertheless requires that this committee be comprised entirely of independent Directors.. 26. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance.  Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key employee could significantly harm us. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ qualified replacements for senior management or key employees on acceptable terms. Due to the uncertainty of our control situation, the ongoing availability of these employees and our ability to replace them is uncertain.. If our company suffers cyber-security attacks, data security challenges or privacy incidents that result in security breaches, we could suffer a loss of sales, additional liability, reputational harm or other adverse consequences.. The effective operation of our international businesses depends on our network infrastructure, computer systems, physical, virtual and/or cloud based, and software. Our information technology systems collect and process information provided by customers, employees and vendors.  In addition, third party vendors' systems process ticketing for our theaters.  These various information technology systems and the data stored within them are subject to penetration by cyber attackers.  We utilize industry accepted security protocols to securely maintain and protect proprietary and confidential information. However, in spite of our best efforts, our information systems may fail to operate for a variety of technological or human reasons.  An interruption or failure of our information technology systems and of those maintained by our third party providers could adversely affect our business, liquidity or results of operations and result in increases in reputational risk, litigation or penalties.  Furthermore, any such occurrence, if significant could require us to expend resources to remediate and upgrade information technology systems.  Since 2015, we have annually procured cybersecurity insurance to protect against cyber-security risks; however, such we cannot provide any assurance regarding the adequacy of such insurance coverage.. <U+FEFF>"                        
