[1] "Item 1A:      Risk Factors. This \"Risk Factors\" section contains references to our \"capital stock\" and to our \"stockholders.\"  Unless expressly stated otherwise, the references to our \"capital stock\" represent our common stock and any class or series of our preferred stock, while the references to our \"stockholders\" represent holders of our common stock and any class or series of our preferred stock.. -20-. Table of Contents. In order to grow w. e need to continue to acquire investment properties.  The acquisition of investment properties may be subject to competitive pressures.. We face competition in the acquisition and operation of our properties. We expect competition from:.       Businesses;.       Individuals;.       Fiduciary accounts and plans; and.       Other entities engaged in real estate investment and financing.. Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial resources. This competition may result in a higher cost for properties we wish to purchase.. Negative market conditions or adverse events affecting our existing or potential tenants, or the industries in which they operate, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract new tenants, re-lease space, collect rent or renew leases, which could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and inhibit growth.. Cash flow from operations depends in part on our ability to lease space to tenants on economically favorable terms. We could be adversely affected by various facts and events over which we have limited or no control, such as:.       Lack of demand in areas where our properties are located;.       Inability to retain existing tenants and attract new tenants;.       Oversupply of space and changes in market rental rates;.       Declines in our tenants' creditworthiness and ability to pay rent, which may be affected by their operations, economic downturns and competition within their industries from other operators;.       Defaults by and bankruptcies of tenants, failure of tenants to pay rent on a timely basis, or failure of tenants to comply with their contractual obligations;.       Economic or physical decline of the areas where the properties are located; and.       Deterioration of physical condition of our properties.. At any time, any tenant may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its operating results or overall financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent, or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcy or insolvency, leasing delay or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant's lease and material losses to us.. If tenants do not renew their leases as they expire, we may not be able to rent or sell the properties.  Furthermore, leases that are renewed, and some new leases for properties that are re-leased, may have terms that are less economically favorable than expiring lease terms, or may require us to incur significant costs, such as renovations, tenant improvements, or lease transaction costs. Negative market conditions may cause us to sell vacant properties for less than their carrying value, which could result in impairments. Any of these events could adversely affect cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders and service indebtedness. A significant portion of the costs of owning property, such as real estate taxes, insurance, and maintenance, are not necessarily reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in rental revenue from the properties. In a weakened financial condition, tenants may not be able to pay these costs of ownership and we may be unable to recover these operating expenses from them.. Further, the occurrence of a tenant bankruptcy or insolvency could diminish the income we receive from the tenant's lease or leases. In addition, a bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to terminate its leases with us. If that happens, our claim against the bankrupt tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that most likely would result in rent payments that would be substantially less than the remaining rent we are owed under the leases or we may elect not to pursue claims against a tenant for terminated leases. In addition, any claim we have for unpaid past rent, if any, may not be paid in full, or at all. Moreover, in the case of a tenant's leases that are not terminated as the result of its bankruptcy, we may be required or elect to reduce the rent payable under those leases or provide other concessions, reducing amounts we receive under those leases. As a result, tenant bankruptcies may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Any of these events could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders and service our indebtedness.. -21-. Table of Contents. Eighty-three of our properties were available for lease or sale at December 31, 2017, 82 of which were single-tenant properties. At December 31, 2017, 55 of our properties under lease were unoccupied and available for sublease by the tenants, all of which were current with their rent and other obligations. During 2017, each of our tenants accounted for less than 10% of our rental revenue.. For 2017, our tenants in the \"drug store\" industry accounted for approximately 10.6% of our rental revenue. A downturn in this industry, whether nationwide or limited to specific sectors of the United States, or a change in legislation relating to prescription drugs, could adversely affect tenants in this industry, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions on our common stock, including the common stock offered hereby, and preferred stock.. Individually, each of the other industries in our property portfolio accounted for less than 10% of our rental revenue for 2017. Nevertheless, downturns in these industries could also adversely affect our tenants, which in turn could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions on our common stock, and preferred stock. In addition, we may in the future make additional investments in the \"drug store\" industry, which would increase this industry's percentage of our rental revenues, thereby increasing the effect that such a downturn in this industry would have on us.. In addition, some of our properties are leased to tenants that may have limited financial and other resources, and therefore, they are more likely to be adversely affected by a downturn in their respective businesses or in the regional, national, or international economy.. Furthermore, we have made and may continue to make selected acquisitions of properties that fall outside our historical focus on freestanding, single-tenant, net lease locations in the United States. We may be exposed to a variety of new risks by expanding into new property types and/or new jurisdictions outside the United States and properties leased to tenants engaged in non-retail businesses. These risks may include limited experience in managing certain types of new properties, new types of real estate locations and lease structures, and the laws and culture of any non-U.S. jurisdiction.. As a property owner, we may be subject to unknown environmental liabilities.. Investments in real property can create a potential for environmental liability. An owner of property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We can face such liability regardless of:.       Our knowledge of the contamination;.       The timing of the contamination;.       The cause of the contamination; or.       The party responsible for the contamination of the property.. There may be environmental conditions associated with our properties of which we are unaware. In that regard, a number of our properties are leased to operators of convenience stores that sell petroleum-based fuels, as well as to operators of oil change and tune-up facilities and operators that use chemicals and other waste products. These facilities, and some other of our properties, use, or may have used in the past, underground lifts or underground tanks for the storage of petroleum-based or waste products, which could create a potential for the release of hazardous substances.. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to lease or sell that property and we may incur substantial remediation costs or third party liability claims. Although our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from the tenants' activities on the property, we could nevertheless be subject to liability, including strict liability, by virtue of our ownership interest. There also can be no assurance that our tenants could or would satisfy their indemnification obligations under their leases. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition, or our ability to make distributions to stockholders and to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness.. -22-. Table of Contents. In addition, several of our properties were built during the period when asbestos was commonly used in building construction and we may acquire other buildings with asbestos in the future. Environmental laws govern the presence, maintenance, and removal of asbestos-containing materials, or ACMs, and require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they adequately inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement in the event that asbestos is disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers.. It is possible that our insurance could be insufficient to address any particular environmental situation and/or that, in the future, we could be unable to obtain insurance for environmental matters at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our tenants are generally responsible for, and indemnify us against, liabilities for environmental matters that arise during the lease terms as a result of tenants' activities on the properties. For properties that have underground storage tanks, in addition to providing an indemnity in our favor, the tenants generally are required to meet applicable state financial assurance obligations, including maintaining certain minimum net worth requirements, obtaining environmental insurance, or relying upon the state trust funds where available in the states where these properties are located to reimburse responsible parties for costs of environmental remediation.  However, it is possible that one or more of our tenants could fail to have sufficient funds to cover any such indemnification or to meet applicable state financial assurance obligations, and thus we may still be obligated to pay for any such environmental liabilities.. Compliance.  We have not been notified by any governmental authority, and are not otherwise aware, of any material noncompliance, liability, or claim relating to hazardous substances, toxic substances, or petroleum products in connection with any of our properties. In addition, we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with all present federal, state, and local laws relating to ACMs. Nevertheless, if environmental contamination should exist, we could be subject to liability, including strict liability, by virtue of our ownership interest.. Insurance and Indemnity.  In July 2012, we entered into a ten-year environmental insurance policy that expires in July 2022 and replaced our previous seven-year environmental insurance policy. The limits on our current policy are $10 million per occurrence and $60 million in the aggregate.  The limits on the excess policy are $5 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate.  Therefore, the primary and excess ten-year policies together provide a total limit of $15 million per occurrence and $70 million in the aggregate.. It is possible that our insurance could be insufficient to address any particular environmental situation and that, in the future, we could be unable to obtain insurance for environmental matters at a reasonable cost, or at all. Our tenants are generally responsible for, and indemnify us against, liabilities for environmental matters that occur on our properties.  For properties that have underground storage tanks, in addition to providing an indemnity in our favor, the tenants generally obtain environmental insurance or rely upon the state funds in the states where these properties are located to reimburse tenants for environmental remediation.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, the amount of dividends we are able to pay would decrease, which could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and could adversely affect the value of our debt securities.. Commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994, we believe that we have been organized and have operated, and we intend to continue to operate, so as to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code. However, we cannot assure you that we have been organized or have operated in a manner that has satisfied the requirements for qualification as a REIT, or that we will continue to be organized or operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT.. Qualification as a REIT involves the satisfaction of numerous requirements under highly technical and complex Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control.. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in each year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must pay distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our taxable income (excluding net capital gains).. -23-. Table of Contents. If we fail to satisfy all of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, we may be subject to certain penalty taxes or, in some circumstances, we may fail to qualify as a REIT.  If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year:.       We would be required to pay regular U.S. federal corporate income tax on our taxable income;.       We would not be allowed a deduction for amounts distributed to our stockholders in computing our taxable income;.       We could be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost;.       We would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders; and.       This treatment would substantially reduce amounts available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability for the years involved, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities.. Even if we qualify for and maintain our REIT status, we may be subject to certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and property. For example, if we have net income from a prohibited transaction, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. In addition, our taxable REIT subsidiaries, including Crest, are subject to federal and state taxes at the applicable tax rates on their income and property.  Any failure to comply with legal and regulatory tax obligations could adversely affect our ability to conduct business and could adversely affect the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us or our investors. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Services, or the IRS, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could adversely affect us or our investors, including holders of our common stock or debt securities. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our investors. New legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us. Also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, could change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a REIT.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation, or the 2017 Tax Legislation, has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders. We are still evaluating the potential impact of the 2017 Tax Legislation on us, but the changes made by the 2017 Tax Legislation that could affect us and our investors include:.       Temporarily reducing individual U.S. federal income tax rates on ordinary income, including the reduction of the highest individual U.S. federal income tax rate from 39.6% to 37% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026;.       Permanently eliminating the progressive corporate tax rate structure, which previously imposed a maximum corporate tax rate of 35%, and replacing it with a flat corporate tax rate of 21%;.       Permitting a deduction for certain domestic qualified business income from pass-through income entities, including dividends received by our stockholders from us that are not designated by us as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income, which will allow individuals, trusts, and estates to deduct up to 20% of such amounts for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026;.       Reducing the highest rate of withholding with respect to our distributions to non-U.S. stockholders that are treated as attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests from 35% to 21%;.       Limiting our deduction for net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80% of REIT taxable income (prior to the application of the dividends paid deduction);.       Generally limiting the deduction for net business interest expense in excess of 30% of a business's \"adjusted taxable income,\" except for taxpayers (including most equity REITs) that engage in certain real estate businesses and elect out of this rule (provided that such electing taxpayers must use an alternative depreciation system with longer depreciation periods); and.       Eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax.. -24-. Table of Contents. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and IRS, any of which could lessen or increase the impact of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect us in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us.. Distribution requirements imposed by law limit our flexibility.. To maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we generally are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gains, each year. We also are subject to tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our taxable income (including net capital gains) each year.. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax to the extent that we fail to distribute during any calendar year at least the sum of 85% of our ordinary income for that calendar year, 95% of our capital gain net income for the calendar year, and any amount of that income that was not distributed in prior years.. We intend to continue to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirements of the Code as well as to reduce our exposure to federal income taxes and the nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the receipt of income and the payment of expenses to arrive at taxable income, along with the effect of required debt amortization payments, could require us to borrow funds to meet the distribution requirements that are necessary to achieve the tax benefits associated with qualifying as a REIT.. Future issuances of equity securities could dilute the interest of holders of our common stock.. Our future growth will depend, in large part, upon our ability to raise additional capital. If we were to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities, we could dilute the interests of holders of our common stock. The interests of our common stockholders could also be diluted by the issuance of shares of common stock pursuant to stock incentive plans. Likewise, our Board of Directors is authorized to cause us to issue preferred stock of any class or series (with dividend, voting and other rights as determined by our Board of Directors). Accordingly, our Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting, dividend and other similar rights that could dilute, or otherwise adversely affect, the interest of holders of our common stock.. We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions, which could result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell or refinance such assets.. We have in the past and may in the future acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership units in an operating partnership, which could result in stockholder dilution through the issuance of operating partnership units that, under certain circumstances, may be exchanged for shares of our common stock.  This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to restrictions on our ability to dispose of, or refinance the debt on, the acquired properties in order to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain.  Similarly, we may be required to incur or maintain debt we would otherwise not incur so we can allocate the debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases.  These restrictions could limit our ability to sell or refinance an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions.. We are subject. to risks associated with debt and capital stock financing.. We intend to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under our $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2017, we had $110.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, a total of $5.25 billion of outstanding unsecured senior debt securities (excluding unamortized net original issuance premiums of $14.3 million and deferred financing costs of $34.1 million), $445.9 million of borrowings outstanding under our senior unsecured term loans (excluding deferred financing costs of $580,000) and approximately $320.3 million of outstanding mortgage debt (excluding net unamortized premiums totaling $5.9 million and deferred financing costs of $236,000 on this mortgage debt). To the extent that new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase. As. -25-. Table of Contents. a result, we are and will be subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow could be insufficient to make required payments on our debt. We also face variable interest rate risk as the interest rates on our revolving credit facility, our term loans and some of our mortgage debt are variable and could therefore increase over time. We also face the risk that we may be unable to refinance or repay our debt as it comes due. Given past disruptions in the financial markets and the recent global financial crisis and related uncertainties, including the impact of the United Kingdom's advisory referendum to withdraw from the European Union (referred to as Brexit), we also face the risk that one or more of the participants in our revolving credit facility may not be able to lend us money.. In addition, our revolving credit facility, our term loan facilities and mortgage loan documents contain provisions that could limit or, in certain cases, prohibit the payment of dividends and other distributions on our common stock and preferred stock. In particular, our revolving credit facility and our $250.0 million term loan facility, both of which are governed by the same credit agreement, provide that, if an event of default (as defined in the credit agreement) exists, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries (other than our wholly-owned subsidiaries) may pay any dividends or other distributions on (except distributions payable in shares of a given class of our stock to the stockholders of that class), or repurchase or redeem, among other things, any shares of our common stock or preferred stock, during any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters in an aggregate amount in excess of the greater of:.       The sum of (a) 95% of our adjusted funds from operations (as defined in the credit agreement) for that period plus (b) the aggregate amount of cash distributions on our preferred stock for that period, and.       The minimum amount of cash distributions required to be made to our stockholders in order to maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and to avoid the payment of any income or excise taxes that would otherwise be imposed under specified sections of the Code on income we do not distribute to our stockholders,. except that we may repurchase or redeem shares of our preferred stock with the net proceeds from the issuance of shares of our common stock or preferred stock. The credit agreement further provides that, in the event of a failure to pay principal, interest or any other amount payable thereunder when due or upon the occurrence of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to us or with respect to one or more of our subsidiaries that in the aggregate meet a significance test set forth in the credit agreement, we and our subsidiaries (other than our wholly-owned subsidiaries) may not pay any dividends or other distributions on (except for (a) distributions payable in shares of a given class of our stock to the stockholders of that class and (b) dividends and distributions described in the second bullet point above), or repurchase or redeem, among other things, any shares of our common stock or preferred stock. If any such event of default under the credit agreement were to occur, it would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our outstanding common and preferred stock and on the market value of our debt securities, could limit the amount of dividends or other distributions payable on our common stock and preferred stock or the amount of interest and principal we are able to pay on our indebtedness, or prevent us from paying those dividends, other distributions, interest or principal altogether, and may adversely affect our ability to qualify, or prevent us from qualifying, as a REIT. Likewise, one of our subsidiaries is the borrower under our $70.0 million term loan facility and that facility requires that this subsidiary maintain its consolidated tangible net worth (as defined in the term loan facility) above a certain minimum dollar amount and comply with certain other financial covenants. This minimum consolidated tangible net worth covenant may limit the ability of this subsidiary, as well as other subsidiaries that are owned by this subsidiary, to provide funds to us in order to pay dividends and other distributions on our common stock and preferred stock and amounts due on our indebtedness. Any failure by this subsidiary to comply with these financial covenants will, and any failure by this subsidiary to comply with other covenants in our $70.0 million term loan facility may, result in an event of default under that facility, which could have adverse consequences similar to those that may result from an event of default under our revolving credit facility or $250.0 million term loan facility as described above.. -26-. Table of Contents. Our indebtedness could also have other important consequences to holders of our common stock, preferred stock, and debt securities, including:.       Increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;.       Limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements;.       Requiring the use of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and general corporate requirements;.       Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and.       Putting us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness.. If we default under a credit facility, loan agreement or other debt instrument, the lenders will generally have the right to demand immediate repayment of the principal and interest on all of their loans and, in the case of secured indebtedness, to exercise their rights to seize and sell the collateral.. Our business operations may not generate the cash needed to make distributions on our capital stock or to service our indebtedness.. Our ability to make distributions on our common stock and preferred stock and payments on our indebtedness, and to fund planned acquisitions and capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.  We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make distributions on our common stock and preferred stock, to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs.. The market value of our capital stock and debt securities could be substantially affected by various factors.. The market value of our capital stock and debt securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time and may be outside of our control, including:.       Prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market value of our capital stock and debt securities;.       The market for similar securities issued by other REITs;.       General economic, political and financial market conditions;.       The financial condition, performance and prospects of us, our tenants and our competitors;.       Changes in legal and regulatory taxation obligations;.       Litigation and regulatory proceedings;.       Changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to us, our competitors or our industry;.       Changes in our credit ratings; and.       Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results of us and our competitors.. In addition, over the last several years, prices of common stock and debt securities in the United States, or U.S., trading markets have been experiencing extreme price fluctuations, and the market values of our common stock and debt securities have also fluctuated significantly during this period. As a result of these and other factors, investors who purchase our capital stock and debt securities may experience a decrease, which could be substantial and rapid, in the market value of our capital stock and debt securities, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects.. Real estate ownership is subject to particular conditions that may have a negative impact on our revenue.. We are subject to all of the inherent risks associated with the ownership of real estate.  In particular, we face the risk that rental revenue from our properties may be insufficient to cover all corporate operating expenses, debt service payments on indebtedness we incur, and distributions on our capital stock. Additional real estate ownership risks include:.       Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions;.       Changes in supply of, or demand for, similar or competing properties;.       Changes in interest rates and operating expenses;.       Competition for tenants;. -27-. Table of Contents.       Changes in market rental rates;.       Inability to lease properties upon termination of existing leases;.       Renewal of leases at lower rental rates;.       Inability to collect rents from tenants due to financial hardship, including bankruptcy;.       Changes in tax, real estate, zoning and environmental laws that may have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate;.       Uninsured property liability;.       Property damage or casualty losses;.       Unexpected expenditures for capital improvements, including requirements to bring properties into compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws;.       The need to periodically renovate and repair our properties;.       Development oriented activities;.       Physical or weather-related damage to properties;.       The potential risk of functional obsolescence of properties over time;.       Acts of terrorism and war; and.       Acts of God and other factors beyond the control of our management.. Real estate property investments are illiquid; therefore, the company may not be able to dispose of properties when desired or on favorable terms.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value, at a price and at terms that are acceptable to us, for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations.. We are engaged in the process of identifying, analyzing, underwriting, and negotiating possible acquisition transactions. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from such acquisitions. Our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, our failure to adequately underwrite and identify risks and obligations when acquiring properties, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities in connection with completed acquisitions.. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the policy limits on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties.. Under the terms and conditions of the leases currently in force on our properties, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons, air, water, land or property, due to activities conducted on the properties, except for claims arising from the negligence or intentional misconduct of us or our agents. Additionally, tenants are generally required, at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. The insurance policies our tenants are required to maintain for property damage are generally in amounts not less than the full replacement cost of the improvements less slab, foundations, supports and other customarily excluded improvements. Our tenants are generally required to maintain general liability coverage depending on the tenant and the industry in which the tenant operates.. In addition to the indemnities and required insurance policies identified above, many of our properties are also covered by flood and earthquake insurance policies (subject to substantial deductibles) obtained and paid for by the tenants as part of their risk management programs. Additionally, we have obtained blanket liability, flood and earthquake (subject to substantial deductibles) and property damage insurance policies to protect us and our properties against loss should the indemnities and insurance policies provided by the tenants fail to restore the properties to their condition prior to a loss. However, should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our. -28-. Table of Contents. results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. We also face the risk that our insurance carriers may not be able to provide payment under any potential claims that might arise under the terms of our insurance policies, and we may not have the ability to purchase insurance policies we desire.. In addition, although we obtain title insurance policies of our properties to protect us and our properties against unknown title defects (such as claims of ownership, liens or other encumbrances), there may be certain title defects that our title insurance will not cover. If a material title defect related to any of our properties is not adequately covered by a title insurance policy, we could lose some or all of our capital invested in and our anticipated profits from such property, cause a financial misstatement or lead to reputational damage to the company.. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and fire, safety, and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operations.. Our properties are generally required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for \"public accommodations\" and \"commercial facilities,\" but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants. The retailers to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and we believe that these retailers may be generally obligated to cover costs associated with compliance. If required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these retailers to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay the principal of and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders.. Litigation risks could affect our business.. From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits, and other claims. An unfavorable resolution of litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management.. Property taxes may increase without notice.. The real property taxes on our properties and any other properties that we develop or acquire in the future may increase as property tax rates change and as those properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities.. We depend on key personnel.. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of our executive officers and key employees could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and on our ability to pay the principal and interest on our debt securities and other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders. It is possible that we will not be able to recruit additional personnel with equivalent experience in the net lease industry.. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, or other unexpected events may affect the value of our debt and equity securities, the markets in which we operate and our results of operations.. Natural disasters, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or war, or other unexpected events may negatively affect our operations, the market price of our capital stock and the value of our debt securities. There can be no assurance that events like these will not occur or have a direct impact on our tenants, our business or the United States generally.. -29-. Table of Contents. If events like these were to occur, they could materially interrupt our business operations, cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in or prolong an economic recession in the U.S. or abroad. Any of these occurrences could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results and revenues and on the market price of our capital stock and on the value of our debt securities. It could also have an adverse effect on our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt securities or other indebtedness and to make distributions to our stockholders.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, our security measures may not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the theft of intellectual property, personal information, or personal property, such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, result in theft of company assets, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we implemented a new enterprise resource planning system in 2018. We may experience difficulties with this system, which could potentially result in disruption to our normal accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, inaccuracies in the conversion of electronic data, difficulties integrating the systems and processes, additional costs to continue to refine the system's functionality, and disruption of our financial reporting process.. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock.. Over the last several years, the United States stock and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks and debt securities to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. In addition, recent global financial crises (such as concerns that certain European countries may be unable to pay their national debt) has had a similar effect. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Unrest in certain Middle Eastern countries and resultant fluctuation in petroleum prices have added to the uncertainty in the capital markets.  Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing at reasonable terms, which may negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions. A prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. In addition, these factors may make it more difficult for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of financing or difficulties in obtaining financing. These events in the stock and credit markets may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock or debt securities. These disruptions in the financial markets also may have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, the income we receive from our properties and the lease rates we can charge for our properties, as well as other unknown adverse effects on us or the economy in general.. Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Although inflation has not materially impacted our results of operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a more pronounced negative impact on any variable rate debt we incur in the future and on our results of operations. During times when inflation is greater than increases in rent, as provided for in our leases, rent increases may not keep up with the rate of inflation. Likewise, even though net leases reduce our exposure to rising property expenses due to inflation, substantial inflationary pressures and increased costs may have an adverse impact on our tenants if increases in their operating expenses exceed increases in revenue, which may adversely affect the tenants' ability to pay rent.. -30-. Table of Contents. Current volatility in market and economic conditions may impact the accuracy of the various estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements and footnotes to the financial statements.. Various estimates are used in the preparation of our financial statements, including estimates related to asset and liability valuations (or potential impairments), and various receivables. Often these estimates require the use of market data values that are currently difficult to assess, as well as estimates of future performance or receivables collectability that can also be difficult to accurately predict. Although management believes it has been prudent and used reasonable judgment in making these estimates, it is possible that actual results may differ from these estimates.. Inherent limitations of internal controls over financial statements, disclosure controls and safeguarding of assets may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and our operating internal controls may not prevent or detect financial misstatements or loss of assets because of inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement and disclosure accuracy and safeguarding of assets. Any failure of these internal controls could result in decreased investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and disclosures, our REIT qualification being jeopardized, impairment in the company's access to capital, civil litigation or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist stockholders and shareholder advisory firms.. Campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. If we become engaged in a process or proxy contest with an activist stockholder in the future, our business could be adversely affected, as such activities could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing our business plan. Additionally, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of stockholder activism or actual or potential changes to the composition of our Board of Directors or management team may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business, instability or lack of continuity, which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to current or potential sellers of properties, tenants and financing sources, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. If potential or existing sellers of properties, tenants or financing sources choose to delay, defer or reduce transactions with us or transact with our competitors instead of us because of any such issues, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, we may suffer damage to our reputation (for example, regarding our corporate governance or stockholder relations) or brand by way of actions taken or statements made by outside constituents, including activist investors and shareholder advisory firms, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and preferred stock and the value of our debt securities, including the notes, resulting in significant loss of value, which could impact our ability to access capital, increase our cost of capital, and decrease our ability to acquire properties on attractive terms.. Our charter contains restrictions upon ownership of our common stock.. Our charter contains restrictions on ownership and transfer of our common stock intended to, among other purposes, assist us in maintaining our status as a REIT for United States federal and/or state income tax purposes. For example, our charter restricts any person from acquiring actual or constructive ownership of more than 9.8% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common stock. These restrictions could have anti-takeover effects and could reduce the possibility that a third party will attempt to acquire control of us, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. -31-. Table of Contents"
