[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Financial Risks Related to Our Business. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may be due to a number of factors, including the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this filing. Some of the important factors that could cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include:. • the extent to which on demand software solutions maintain market acceptance;. • fluctuations in leasing activity by our clients;. • our ability to timely introduce enhancements to our existing solutions and new solutions;. • our ability to renew the use of our on demand solutions for units managed by our existing clients and to increase the use of our on demand solutions for the management of units by our existing and new clients;. • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors or new competitors;. • the variable nature of our sales and implementation cycles;. • our ability to anticipate and adapt to external forces and the emergence of new technologies and products;. • our ability to enter into new markets and capture additional market share;. • our ability to integrate acquisitions in a cost-effective and timely manner;. • the timing of revenue and expenses related to recent and potential acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or technologies;. • changes in local economic, political and regulatory environments of our international operations;. • general economic, industry and market conditions in the rental housing industry that impact our current and potential clients;. • the amount and timing of our investment in research and development activities;. • technical difficulties, service interruptions, data or document losses or security breaches;. • our ability to hire and retain qualified key personnel, including particular key positions in our sales force and IT department;. • changes in the legal, regulatory or compliance environment related to the rental housing industry or the markets in which we operate, including without limitation changes related to fair credit reporting, payment processing, data protection and privacy, utility billing, insurance, the Internet and e-commerce, licensing, telemarketing, electronic communications, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (\"HIPAA\") and the Health Information Technology Economic and Clinical Health Act (\"HITECH\");. 13. Table of Contents. • the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure;. • increase in the number or severity of insurance claims on policies sold by us;. • litigation and settlement costs, including unforeseen costs;. • new accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting standards or practices, particularly any affecting the recognition of subscription revenue or accounting for mergers and acquisitions; and. • changes in tax policy in the United States and globally that affect the deductibility of certain expenses and how our profits are taxed.. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or guidance that we provide may lead analysts to change their long-term models for valuing our common stock, cause us to face short-term liquidity issues, impact our ability to retain or attract key personnel or cause other unanticipated issues, all of which could cause our stock price to decline. As a result of the potential variations in our quarterly revenue and operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date period comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful and the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.. If we are unable to continue to manage the growth of our diverse and complex operations, our financial performance may suffer.. The growth in the size, dispersed geographic locations, complexity and diversity of our business and the expansion of our product lines and client base has placed, and our anticipated growth may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We continue to experience growth, and have increased our number of employees from approximately 4,400 as of December 31, 2016 to approximately 5,400 as of December 31, 2017. We increased our number of on demand clients from approximately 11,000 as of December 31, 2016 to nearly 12,400 as of December 31, 2017. In addition, we have grown and expect to continue to grow through acquisitions. Our ability to effectively manage our anticipated future growth will depend on, among other things, the following:. • successfully supporting and maintaining a broad range of current and emerging solutions;. • identifying suitable acquisition targets and efficiently managing the closing of acquisitions and the integration of targets into our operations;. • maintaining continuity in our senior management and key personnel;. • attracting, retaining, training and motivating our employees, particularly technical, client service and sales personnel;. • enhancing our financial and accounting systems and controls;. • enhancing our information technology infrastructure, processes and controls;. • successfully completing system upgrades and enhancements; and. • managing expanded operations in geographically dispersed locations.. If we do not manage the size, complexity and diverse nature of our business effectively, we could experience product performance issues, delayed software releases and longer response times for assisting our clients with implementation of our solutions and could lack adequate resources to support our clients on an ongoing basis, any of which could adversely affect our reputation in the market and our ability to generate revenue from new or existing clients.. Because we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable client agreement, a decline in subscription renewals or new service agreements may not be reflected immediately in our operating results.. We generally recognize revenue from clients ratably over the terms of their client agreements, which are typically for a period of one or more years. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is deferred revenue from client agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed client agreements in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in our revenue or our results of operations until future periods. Accordingly, this revenue recognition model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new clients must be recognized over the applicable subscription term.. The conditional conversion feature of our Convertible Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Convertible Notes is triggered, holders of the Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common. 14. Table of Contents. stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Convertible Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments, such as the Convertible Notes, that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, and the trading price of our common stock.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments, such as the Convertible Notes, that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. If we are not able to integrate past or future acquisitions successfully, our operating results and prospects could be harmed.. We have acquired new technology and domain expertise through multiple acquisitions, including our most recent acquisitions of LRO, On-Site, PEX, AUM, Axiometrics, eSupply, AssetEye and NWP. We expect to continue making acquisitions in the future. The success of our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and any acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Any acquisitions we pursue involve numerous risks, including the following:. • difficulties in integrating and managing the operations and technologies of the companies we acquire;. • diversion of our management's attention from normal daily operations of our business;. • our inability to maintain the clients, the key employees, the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire;. • our inability to generate sufficient revenue from acquisitions to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions;. • difficulties in predicting or achieving the synergies between acquired businesses and our own businesses;. • our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire, including, without limitation, liabilities arising out of their failure to maintain effective data security, data integrity, disaster recovery and privacy controls prior to the acquisition, or their infringement or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property, contract or data access rights prior to the acquisition;. • difficulties in complying with new markets or regulatory standards to which we were not previously subject;. • delays in our ability to implement internal standards, controls, procedures and policies in the businesses we acquire; and. • adverse effects of acquisition activity on the key performance indicators we use to monitor our performance.. 15. Table of Contents. Our current acquisition strategy includes the acquisition of complementary businesses, products, and solutions. In order to integrate and fully realize the benefits of such acquisitions, we expect to build application interfaces that enable such clients to use a wide range of our solutions while they continue to use their legacy management systems. In addition, over time we expect to migrate each acquired company's clients to our on demand property management solutions to retain them as clients and to be in a position to offer them our solutions on a cost-effective basis. These efforts may be unsuccessful or entail costs that result in losses or reduced profitability.. Unanticipated events and circumstances occurring in future periods may affect the realizability of our intangible assets obtained through acquisitions. The events and circumstances that we consider include significant under-performance relative to projected future operating results and significant changes in our overall business or product strategies. These events and circumstances may cause us to revise our estimates and assumptions used in analyzing the value of our other intangible assets with indefinite lives, and any such revision could result in a non-cash impairment charge that could have a material impact on our financial results.. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience ownership dilution, and if we finance future acquisitions with debt funding, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with additional financing covenants or secure that debt obligation with our assets.. Variability in our sales and activation cycles could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. The sales and activation cycles for our solutions, from initial contact with a prospective client to contract execution and activation, vary widely by client and solution. We do not recognize revenue until the solution is activated. While most of our activations follow a set of standard procedures, a client's priorities may delay activation and our ability to recognize revenue, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Additionally, certain of our products are offered in suites containing multiple solutions, resulting in additional fluctuation in activations depending on each client's priorities with respect to solutions included in the suite.. Many of our clients are price sensitive, and if market dynamics require us to change our pricing model or reduce prices, our operating results will be harmed.. Many of our existing and potential clients are price sensitive, and uncertain global economic conditions, as well as decreased leasing velocity, have contributed to increased price sensitivity in the multifamily housing market and the other markets that we serve. As market dynamics change, or as new and existing competitors introduce more competitive pricing or pricing models, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing clients or clients of the businesses we acquire or attract new clients at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used. As a result, it is possible that we may be required to change our pricing model, offer price incentives or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, profitability and operating results.. Economic trends that affect the rental housing market may have a negative effect on our business.. Our clients include a range of organizations whose success is closely linked to the rental housing market. Economic trends that negatively or positively affect the rental housing market may adversely affect our business. Instability or downturns affecting the rental housing market may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations by:. • decreasing demand for leasing and marketing solutions;. • reducing the number of occupied sites and units on which we earn revenue;. • preventing our clients from expanding their businesses and managing new properties;. • causing our clients to reduce spending on our solutions;. • subjecting us to increased pricing pressure in order to add new clients and retain existing clients;. • causing our clients to switch to lower-priced solutions provided by our competitors or internally developed solutions;. • delaying or preventing our collection of outstanding accounts receivable; and. • causing payment processing losses related to an increase in client insolvency.. In addition, economic trends that reduce the frequency of renter turnover or the quantity of new renters may reduce the number of rental transactions completed by our clients and may, as a result, reduce demand for our rental, leasing or marketing transaction specific services.. 16. Table of Contents. We may require additional capital to support business growth or acquisitions, and this capital might not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure or acquire businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant ownership dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. In 2017, we amended our Credit Facility to increase our borrowing capacity and completed a convertible debt offering in which we sold $345.0 million of Convertible Notes. Future debt financing could involve additional restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges or opportunities could be significantly limited.. Our Credit Facility contains restrictions that impact our business and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. All of our obligations under the Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets. All of our existing and future domestic subsidiaries are required to guarantee our obligations under the Credit Facility, other than certain immaterial subsidiaries, foreign subsidiary holding companies and our payment processing subsidiaries. Such guarantees by existing and future domestic subsidiaries are and will be secured by substantially all of the assets of such subsidiaries.. Our Credit Facility contains customary covenants, subject in each case to customary exceptions and qualifications, which limit our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee indebtedness of others;. • create liens on our assets;. • enter into mergers or consolidations;. • dispose of assets;. • prepay certain indebtedness;. • make changes to our governing documents and certain of our agreements;. • pay dividends and make other distributions on our capital stock, and redeem and repurchase our capital stock;. • make investments, including acquisitions; and. • enter into transactions with affiliates.. Our Credit Facility also contains, subject in each case to customary exceptions and qualifications, customary affirmative covenants. We are also required to comply with a maximum Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio, a maximum Consolidated Senior Secured Net Leverage Ratio, and a minimum Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio. See additional discussion of these requirements in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our Credit Facility.. The Credit Facility contains customary events of default, subject to customary cure periods for certain defaults, that include, among others, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, material judgment defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults, cross-defaults to certain other material indebtedness, ERISA defaults, inaccuracy of representations and warranties and a change in control default.. Even if we comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on the conduct of our business could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to the business. Even if the Credit Facility was terminated, additional debt we could incur in the future may subject us to similar or additional covenants.. A significant decline in our cash flow could impair our ability to make payments under our debt obligations.. If we experience a decline in cash flow due to any of the factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying interest and principal amounts due on our indebtedness and meeting the financial covenants set forth in our Credit Facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds necessary to make required payments under our Credit Facility or Convertible Notes Indenture, or if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness, we could default under our Credit Facility or Convertible Notes Indenture. Any default that is not cured or. 17. Table of Contents. waived could result in the termination of the revolving commitments, the acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Facility or Convertible Notes Indenture, an increase in the applicable interest rate under the Credit Facility and a requirement that our subsidiaries that have guaranteed the Credit Facility pay the obligations in full, and would permit our lenders to exercise remedies with respect to all of the collateral that is securing the Credit Facility, including substantially all of our and our subsidiary guarantors' assets. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock.. Changes in, or errors in our interpretations and applications of, financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations.. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices or errors in our interpretations and applications of financial accounting standards or practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business.. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASU 2014-09, as amended by certain supplementary ASU's released in 2016 and 2017, replaced all current GAAP guidance on revenue recognition and eliminated all industry-specific guidance. Our adoption of this ASU was effective on January 1, 2018 and required changes in our revenue recognition timing related to commissions paid to our direct sales force, certain client accommodations and our allocation of contract transaction prices. The new standard also requires new revenue disclosures in our consolidated financial statements relating to, among other items, the disaggregation of revenue and contract backlog. We have developed expanded disclosures to meet the new requirements. We have also identified and designed additional controls and updated our accounting policies to support our implementation and ongoing compliance with the new standard.. We generate commission revenue from the insurance policies we sell as a registered insurance agent, and if insurance premiums decline or if the insureds experience greater than expected losses, our revenues could decline and our operating results could be harmed.. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC, a managing general insurance agency, we generate commission revenue from offering liability and renter's insurance. Through Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC we also sell additional insurance products, including auto and other personal lines insurance, to renters that buy renter's insurance from us. These policies are ultimately underwritten by various insurance carriers. Some of the property owners and managers that participate in our programs opt to require renters to purchase rental insurance policies and agree to grant to Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC exclusive marketing rights at their properties. If demand for residential rental housing declines, property owners and managers may be forced to reduce their rental rates and to stop requiring the purchase of rental insurance in order to reduce the overall cost of renting. If property owners or managers cease to require renter's insurance, elect to offer policies from competing providers or insurance premiums decline, our revenues from selling insurance policies will be adversely affected.. Additionally, one type of commission paid by insurance carriers to Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC is contingent commission, which is affected by claims experienced at the properties for which the renters purchase insurance. In the event that the severity or frequency of claims by the insureds increase unexpectedly, the contingent commission we typically earn will be adversely affected. As a result, our quarterly, or annual, operating results could fall below the expectations of analysts or investors, in which event our stock price may decline.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. Our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our. 18. Table of Contents. control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheet, even if we maintain profitability.. If we are required to collect sales and use taxes on the solutions we sell in additional taxing jurisdictions, we may be subject to liability for past sales and our future sales may decrease.. States and some local taxing jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. We review these rules and regulations periodically and currently collect and remit sales taxes in taxing jurisdictions where we believe we are required to do so. However, additional state and/or local taxing jurisdictions may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales or other taxes on our solutions could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage clients from purchasing our solutions or otherwise harm our business and operating results. This risk may be greater with regard to solutions acquired through acquisitions because the acquired entities may not have had the same practices and procedures that we have in place.. We may also become subject to tax audits or similar procedures in jurisdictions where we already collect and remit sales taxes. A successful assertion that we have not collected and remitted taxes at the appropriate levels may also result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales. Liability for past taxes may also include very substantial interest and penalty charges. Our client contracts provide that our clients must pay all applicable sales and similar taxes. Nevertheless, clients may be reluctant to pay back taxes and may refuse responsibility for interest or penalties associated with those taxes. If we are required to collect and pay back taxes and the associated interest and penalties, and if our clients fail or refuse to reimburse us for all or a portion of these amounts, we will incur unplanned expenses that may be substantial. Moreover, imposition of such taxes on our solutions going forward will effectively increase the cost of such solutions to our clients and may adversely affect our ability to continue to sell those solutions to existing clients or to gain new clients in the areas in which such taxes are imposed.. Changes to applicable U.S. or foreign tax laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our tax rate is affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, including jurisdictions in which we have completed or may complete acquisitions and the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including our ability to utilize our net operating losses. Increases in our effective tax rate could harm our operating results.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform Act\"), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, contains significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, the full consequences of which have not yet been determined. As a result of the enacted reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate, we recorded a non-cash adjustment to revalue our net deferred tax assets, with a corresponding charge to earnings. This one-time revaluation was based on our current knowledge, interpretation, and understanding of the Tax Reform Act and its impact to our business. If we are required to further adjust the value of our deferred tax assets and/or recognize a deferred tax liability for non-U.S. earnings, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings, which could have could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The ultimate impact of the Tax Reform Act may differ materially from our estimates, due to changes in the interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory and accounting guidance that may be issued and actions we may take as a result of the Tax Reform Act.. Operational Risks Related to Our Business. The nature of our platform is complex and highly integrated, and if we fail to successfully manage releases or integrate new solutions, it could harm our revenues, operating income and reputation.. We manage a complex platform of solutions that consists of our property management solutions, integrated software-enabled value-added services and advertising and lease generation services. Many of our solutions include a large number of product centers that are highly integrated and require interoperability with other RealPage, Inc. products, as well as products and services of third-party service providers. Additionally, we typically deploy new releases of the software underlying our on demand software solutions on a bi-weekly, monthly or quarterly schedule, depending on the solution. Due to this complexity and the condensed development cycles under which we operate, we may experience errors in our software, corruption or loss of our data or unexpected performance issues from time to time. For example, our solutions may face interoperability difficulties with software operating systems or programs being used by our clients, or new releases, upgrades, fixes or the integration of acquired technologies may have unanticipated consequences on the operation and performance of our other solutions. If we encounter integration challenges or discover errors in our solutions late in our development cycle, it may cause us to delay our launch dates. Any major integration or interoperability issues or launch delays could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income and reputation.. 19. Table of Contents. Our business depends substantially on the renewal of our products and services for on demand units managed by our clients and the increase in the use of our on demand products and services for on demand units.. We generally license our solutions pursuant to client agreements with a term of one year or longer. The pricing of the agreements is typically based on a price per unit basis. Our clients have no obligation to renew these agreements after their term expires, or to renew these agreements at the same or higher annual contract value. In addition, under specific circumstances, our clients have the right to cancel their client agreements before they expire, for example, in the event of an uncured breach by us, or in some circumstances, upon the sale or transfer of a client property, by giving 30 days' notice or paying a cancellation fee. In addition, clients often purchase a higher level of professional services in the initial term than they do in renewal terms to ensure successful activation. As a result, our ability to grow is dependent in part on clients purchasing additional solutions or increasing the number of units they own or manage after the initial term of their client agreement. Though we maintain and analyze historical data with respect to rates of client renewals, upgrades and expansions, those rates may not accurately predict future trends in renewal of on demand units. Our clients' on demand unit renewal rates may decline or fluctuate for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, their level of satisfaction with our solutions, our pricing, our competitors' pricing, reductions in our clients' spending levels or reductions in the number of on demand units managed by our clients. If our clients cancel or amend their agreements with us during their term, do not renew their agreements, renew on less favorable terms or do not purchase additional solutions or professional services in renewal periods, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our profitability may be harmed.. Additionally, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, some level of on demand unit attrition as properties are sold and the new owners and managers of properties previously owned or managed by our clients do not continue to use our solutions. We cannot predict the amount of on demand unit turnover we will experience in the future. However, we have experienced higher rates of on demand unit attrition with our Propertyware property management system, primarily because it serves smaller properties than our OneSite property management system, and we may experience higher levels of on demand unit attrition to the extent Propertyware grows as a percentage of our revenues. If we experience increased on demand unit turnover, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected.. On demand revenue that is derived from products that help owners and managers lease and market apartments, such as certain products in LeaseStar and LeasingDesk, may decrease as occupancy rates rise. We have also experienced, and expect to continue to experience, some number of consolidations of our clients with other parties. In addition, if one of our clients is consolidated with another client, the acquiring client may have negotiated lower prices for our solutions or may use fewer of our solutions than the acquired client. In each case, the consolidated entity may attempt to negotiate lower prices for using our solutions as a result of the entity's increased size. These consolidations may cause us to lose on demand units or require us to reduce prices as a result of enhanced client leverage, which could cause our financial performance and operating results to be adversely affected.. We may not be able to continue to add new clients and retain and increase sales to our existing clients, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to continually attract new clients while retaining and expanding our service offerings to existing clients. Growth in the demand for our solutions may be inhibited and we may be unable to sustain growth in our sales for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to:. • our failure to develop new or additional solutions;. • our inability to market our solutions in a cost-effective manner to new clients or in new vertical or geographic markets;. • our inability to expand our sales to existing clients;. • our inability to build and promote our brand; and. • perceived or actual security, integrity, reliability, quality or compatibility problems with our solutions.. A substantial amount of our past revenue growth was derived from purchases of upgrades and additional solutions by existing clients. Our costs associated with increasing revenue from existing clients are generally lower than costs associated with generating revenue from new clients. Therefore, a reduction in the rate of revenue increase from our existing clients, even if offset by an increase in revenue from new clients, could reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire and sell enhancements and new solutions, our revenue growth will be harmed and we may not be able to meet profitability expectations.. The industry in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing client requirements, technological developments and evolving industry standards. Our ability to attract new clients and increase revenue from existing clients will depend in large part on our ability to successfully develop, bring to market and sell enhancements to our existing solutions and new. 20. Table of Contents. solutions that effectively respond to the rapid changes in our industry. Any enhancements or new solutions that we develop or acquire may not be introduced to the market in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate the revenue required to offset the operating expenses and capital expenditures related to development or acquisition. If we are unable to timely develop or acquire and sell enhancements and new solutions that keep pace with the rapid changes in our industry, our revenue will not grow as expected and we may not be able to maintain or meet profitability expectations.. Any disruption of service at our data centers or other facilities could interrupt or delay our clients' access to our solutions, which could harm our operating results.. The ability of our clients to access our service is critical to our business. We host our products and services, support our operations and service our clients primarily from data centers in the Dallas, Texas area, but also from data centers located elsewhere in the United States and in Europe.. We may fail to provide such service as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation: mechanical failure, power outage, human error, physical or electronic security breaches, war, terrorism and related conflicts or similar events worldwide, fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood and other natural disasters, sabotage and vandalism. We attempt to mitigate these risks at our Texas-based data centers and other facilities through various business continuity efforts, including: redundant infrastructure, 24 x 7 x 365 system activity monitoring, backup and recovery procedures, use of a secure off-site storage facility for backup media, separate test systems and rotation of management and system security measures, but our precautions may not protect against all potential problems. Disaster recovery procedures are in place to facilitate the recovery of our operations, products and services within the stated service level goals. Our secondary data center is equipped with physical space, power, storage and networking infrastructure and Internet connectivity to support the solutions we provide in the event of the interruption of services at our primary data center. Even with this secondary data center, however, our operations would be interrupted during the transition process should our primary data center experience a failure. Moreover, both our primary and secondary data centers are located in the greater metropolitan Dallas area. As a result, any regional disaster could affect both data centers and result in a material disruption of our services.. Problems at one or more of our data centers, whether or not within our control, could result in service disruptions or delays or loss or corruption of data or documents. This could damage our reputation, cause us to issue credits to clients, subject us to potential liability or costs related to defending against claims, or cause clients to terminate or elect not to renew their agreements, any of which could negatively impact our revenues and harm our operating results.. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center providers could impair our ability to deliver certain of our products to our clients, resulting in client dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation, loss of clients, limited growth and reduction in revenue.. Our products and services are hosted and supported from data centers in various geographic locations within the continental United States and Europe, and are operated by third-party providers. Our operations depend on our third-party data center providers' abilities to protect these facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that any of our third-party hosting or facilities arrangements is terminated, or if there is a lapse of service or damage to a facility, we could experience interruptions in the availability of our on demand software as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services.. Despite precautions taken at these third party data centers, the occurrence of spikes in usage volume, a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, adverse changes in United States or foreign laws and regulations, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close a third-party facility without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our on demand software. Even with current and planned disaster recovery arrangements, our business could be harmed. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could further reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause us to issue credits or cause clients to fail to renew their subscriptions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business.. We provide service level commitments to our clients, and our failure to meet the stated service levels could significantly harm our revenue and our reputation.. Our client agreements provide that we maintain certain service level commitments to our clients relating primarily to product functionality, network uptime, critical infrastructure availability and hardware replacement. For example, our service level agreements generally require that our solutions are available 98% of the time during coverage hours (normally 6:00 a.m. though 10:00 p.m. Central time daily) 365 days per year (other than certain permitted exceptions such as maintenance). If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments, we may be contractually obligated to provide clients with refunds or credits. Additionally, if we fail to meet our service level commitments a specified number of times within a given time frame or for a specified duration, our clients may terminate their agreements with us or extend the term of their agreements at no additional fee. As a result, a failure to deliver services for a relatively short duration could cause us to issue credits or refunds to a large number of affected clients or result in the loss of clients. In addition, we cannot assure you that our clients will accept. 21. Table of Contents. these credits, refunds, termination or extension rights in lieu of other legal remedies that may be available to them. Our failure to meet our commitments could also result in substantial client dissatisfaction or loss. Because of the loss of future revenues through the issuance of credits or the loss of clients or other potential liabilities, our revenue could be significantly impacted if we cannot meet our service level commitments to our clients.. We face intense competitive pressures and our failure to compete successfully could harm our business and operating results.. We compete in a number of markets including accounting software, property management software for multifamily, single family and commercial solutions, vertically-integrated cloud computing services, software-enabled value-added services including applicant screening, insurance, relationship management (\"CRM\"), marketing and web portals, Internet listing services, utility billing and energy management, revenue management, multifamily housing and commercial real estate market research, spend management, payment processing, affordable housing compliance and audit services and vacation rentals. The markets for many of our solutions are intensely competitive, fragmented and rapidly changing. Some of these markets have relatively low barriers to entry. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced sales and reduced margins. Often we compete to sell our solutions against existing systems that our potential clients have already made significant expenditures to install.. Our competitors vary depending on our product and service. Certain competitors compete with us in a number of areas, including Yardi, Inc., Entrata, Inc., MRI Software LLC, AppFolio, Inc., and CoStar Group, Inc. Other competitors compete with us with respect to a single product or category of products. We compete in various markets, with different competitive considerations in these various markets. In many of our markets we compete with a number of providers, including those who market specifically to multifamily, single family, and commercial real estate owners and property managers as well as other providers. In addition, many of our existing or potential clients have developed or may develop their own solutions that may be competitive with our solutions. We also may face competition for potential acquisition targets from our competitors who are seeking to expand their offerings.. With respect to all of our competitors, we compete based on a number of factors, including total cost of ownership, level of integration with property management systems, ease of implementation, product functionality and scope, performance, security, scalability and reliability of service, brand and reputation, sales and marketing capabilities and financial resources. Some of our existing competitors and new market entrants may enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger installed client bases and larger sales and marketing budgets, as well as greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, any number of our existing competitors or new market entrants could combine or consolidate, or obtain new financing through public or private sources, to become a more formidable competitor with greater resources. As a result of such competitive advantages, our existing and future competitors may be able to:. • develop superior products or services, gain greater market acceptance and expand their offerings more efficiently or more rapidly;. • adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements more quickly;. • take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily;. • adopt more aggressive pricing policies, such as offering discounted pricing for purchasing multiple bundled products;. • devote greater resources to the promotion of their brand and marketing and sales of their products and services; and. • devote greater resources to the research and development of their products and services.. If we are not able to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed.. We integrate our software-enabled value-added services with competitive property management software for some of our clients. Our application infrastructure, marketed to our clients as the RealPage Cloud, is based on an open architecture that enables third-party applications to access and interface with applications hosted in the RealPage Cloud through our RealPage Exchange platform. Likewise, through this platform our RealPage Cloud services are able to access and interface with other third-party applications, including third-party property management systems. We also provide services to assist in the implementation, training, support and hosting with respect to the integration of some of our competitors' applications with our solutions. We sometimes rely on the cooperation of our competitors to implement solutions for our clients. However, frequently our reliance on the cooperation of our competitors can result in delays in integration. There is no assurance that our competitors, even if contractually obligated to do so, will continue to cooperate with us or will not prospectively alter their obligations to do so. We also occasionally develop interfaces between our software-enabled value-added services and competitor property management software without their cooperation or consent. There is no assurance that our competitors will not alter their applications in ways that inhibit or prevent integration or assert that their intellectual property rights restrict our. 22. Table of Contents. ability to integrate our solutions with their applications. Moreover, regardless of merit, such interface-related activity may result in costly litigation.. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our solutions could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions.. The software applications underlying our solutions are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have, from time to time, found defects in the software applications underlying our solutions, and new errors in our existing solutions may be detected in the future. Any errors or defects that cause performance problems or service interruptions could result in:. • a reduction in new sales or subscription renewal rates;. • unexpected sales credits or refunds to our clients, loss of clients and other potential liabilities;. • delays in client payments, increasing our collection reserve and collection cycle;. • diversion of development resources and associated costs;. • harm to our reputation and brand; and. • unanticipated litigation costs.. Additionally, the costs incurred in correcting defects or errors could be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results.. Failure to effectively manage the development, sale and support of our solutions and data processing efforts outside the United States could harm our business.. Our success depends on our ability to process high volumes of client data, enhance existing solutions and develop new solutions rapidly and cost effectively. We currently maintain offices in Hyderabad, India; Cebu, Philippines and Manila, Philippines where we employ development and data processing personnel or conduct other business functions important to our operations. We believe that performing these activities in Hyderabad, Cebu and Manila increases the efficiency and decreases the costs of our related operations. We maintain an office in Barcelona, Spain where certain of our vacation rental product development, sales and support operations are based. We also maintain offices in London, England and Sydney, Australia, where we provide property management, online leasing and resident software solutions. We believe our access to a multilingual employee base enhances our ability to serve vacation and other rental property managers outside the United States and in non-English speaking countries. Managing and staffing international operations requires management's attention and financial resources. The level of cost savings achieved by our international operations may not exceed the amount of investment and additional resources required to manage and operate these international operations. Our product offerings outside the United States may not be profitable or otherwise successful. Additionally, if we experience difficulties as a result of political, social, economic or environmental instability, change in applicable law, limitations of local infrastructure or problems with our workforce or facilities at our or third parties' international operations, our business could be harmed due to delays in product release schedules or data processing services.. We rely on third-party technologies and services that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors, failures or disruptions of our service, any of which could harm our business.. We rely on third-party providers in connection with the delivery of our solutions. Such providers include, but are not limited to, computer hardware and software vendors, database and data providers and cloud hosting providers. We utilize equipment, software and services from Amazon Web Services, a division of Amazon, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, salesforce.com, Avaya, Inc., Twilio, Inc., Palo Alto Networks, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., EMC Corporation and various other third party providers. Our OneSite Accounting service relies on a software-as-a-service, or SaaS, accounting system developed and maintained by a third-party service provider. We host this application in our data centers and provide supplemental development resources to extend this accounting system to meet the unique requirements of the rental housing industry. Our shared cloud portfolio reporting service utilizes software licensed from IBM. We expect to utilize additional service providers as we expand our platform. Although the third-party technologies and services that we currently require are commercially available, such technologies and services may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of these technologies or services could result in delays in the provisioning of our solutions until alternative technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, and such delays could harm our business. It also may be time consuming and costly to enter into new relationships. Additionally, any errors or defects in the third-party technologies we utilize or delays or interruptions in the third-party services we rely on could result in errors, failures or disruptions of our services, which also could harm our business.. 23. Table of Contents. We depend upon third-party service providers for important payment processing functions. If these third-party service providers do not fulfill their contractual obligations or choose to discontinue their services, our business and operations could be disrupted and our operating results would be harmed.. We rely on several large payment processing organizations to enable us to provide payment processing services to our clients, including electronic funds transfers, or EFT, check services, bank card authorization, data capture, settlement and merchant accounting services and access to various reporting tools. We also rely on third-party hardware manufacturers to manufacture the check scanning hardware our clients utilize to process transactions. Some of these organizations and service providers are competitors who also directly or indirectly sell payment processing services to clients in competition with us. With respect to these organizations and service providers, we have significantly less control over the systems and processes than if we were to maintain and operate them ourselves. In some cases, functions necessary to our business are performed on proprietary third-party systems and software to which we have no access. We also generally do not have long-term contracts with these organizations and service providers. Accordingly, the failure of these organizations and service providers to renew their contracts with us or fulfill their contractual obligations and perform satisfactorily could result in significant disruptions to our operations and adversely affect operating results. In addition, businesses that we have acquired, or may acquire in the future, typically rely on other payment processing service providers. We may encounter difficulty converting payment processing services from these service providers to our payment processing platform. If we are required to find an alternative source for performing these functions, we may have to expend significant money, time and other resources to develop or obtain an alternative, and if developing or obtaining an alternative is not accomplished in a timely manner and without significant disruption to our business, we may be unable to fulfill our responsibilities to clients or meet their expectations, with the attendant potential for liability claims, damage to our reputation, loss of ability to attract or maintain clients.. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our software platform and infrastructure, or our clients' or their renters' or prospects' data, we may incur significant liabilities, third parties may misappropriate our intellectual property, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure and clients may curtail or stop using our solutions.. Maintaining the security of our software platform and service infrastructure is of paramount importance to us and our clients, and we devote significant resources to this effort. Breaches of the security measures we take to protect our software platform and service infrastructure and our and our clients' confidential or proprietary information that is stored on and transmitted through those systems could disrupt and compromise the security of our internal systems and on demand applications, impair our ability to provide products and services to our clients and protect the privacy of their data, compromise our confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or otherwise adversely affect our business.. The solutions we provide involve the collection, storage and transmission of confidential personal and proprietary information regarding our clients and our clients' current and prospective renters and business partners. Specifically, we collect, store and transmit a variety of client data such as demographic information and payment histories of our clients' prospective and current renters and business partners. Additionally, we collect and transmit sensitive financial data such as credit card and bank account information. Treatment of certain types of data, such as personally identifiable information, protected health information and sensitive financial data may be subject to federal or state regulations requiring heightened privacy and security. If our data security or data integrity measures are breached or otherwise fail or prove to be inadequate for any reason, as a result of third-party actions or our employees' or contractors' errors or malfeasance or otherwise, and unauthorized persons obtain access to this information, or the data is otherwise compromised, we could incur significant liability to our clients and to their prospective or current renters or business partners, significant costs associated with internal regulatory investigations and litigation, or significant fines and sanctions by payment processing networks or governmental authorities. Any of these events or circumstances could result in damage to our reputation and material harm to our business.. We also rely upon our clients as users of our system to promote security of the system and the data within it, such as administration of client-side access credentialing and control of client-side display of data. On occasion, our clients have failed to perform these activities in such a manner as to prevent unauthorized access to data. To date, these breaches have not resulted in claims against us or in material harm to our business, but we cannot be certain that the failure of our clients in future periods to perform these activities will not result in claims against us, which could expose us to potential litigation, damage to our reputation and material harm to our business.. There can be no certainty that the measures we have taken to protect our software platform and service infrastructure, our confidential and proprietary information and the privacy and integrity of our clients', their current or prospective renters' and business partners' data are adequate to prevent or remedy unauthorized access to our system. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Experienced computer programmers seeking to intrude or cause harm, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our service infrastructure from time to time. Hackers may consist of sophisticated organizations, competitors, governments or individuals who launch targeted attacks to gain unauthorized access to our systems. A hacker who is able to penetrate our service infrastructure could misappropriate. 24. Table of Contents. proprietary or confidential information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to remedy, problems caused by hackers, and we may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our service infrastructure. In addition to purposeful breaches, inadvertent actions or the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to security risks. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs or if our clients and potential clients perceive vulnerabilities, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose sales and clients and our business could be materially harmed.. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations.. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and antitrust and competition regulations, among others.. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to carry on operations in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.. In addition, we are subject to a variety of risks inherent in doing business internationally, including:. • political, social, economic or environmental instability, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general;. • limitations of local infrastructure;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • higher levels of credit risk and payment fraud;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;. • difficulties in staffing and managing global operations and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;. • compliance with statutory equity requirements and management of tax consequences; and. • outbreaks of highly contagious diseases.. If we are unable to manage the complexity of our international operations successfully, our financial results could be adversely affected.. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business.. Our success and future growth depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our management team. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or other senior executives, or our inability to successfully integrate certain new members of our management, could adversely affect our business. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled software developers, marketing and sales personnel, technical support and product development personnel in the United States and internationally. All of our employees work for us on an at-will basis. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, particularly in the software industry. As a result, we may be unable to attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business.. Legal and Regulatory Risks Related to Our Business. We face a number of risks in our payment processing business that could result in a reduction in our revenues and profits.. In connection with our electronic payment processing services, we process renter payments and subsequently submit these renter payments to our clients after varying clearing times established by RealPage. These payments are settled through our sponsor banks, and in the case of EFT, our Originating Depository Financial Institutions, or ODFIs. The renter payments that we process for our clients at our sponsor banks are identified in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as restricted cash and the corresponding liability for these renter payments is identified as client deposits. Our electronic payment processing business and related maintenance of custodial accounts subjects us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to:. • liability for client costs related to disputed or fraudulent transactions if those costs exceed the amount of the client reserves we have during the clearing period or after renter payments have been settled to our clients;. • electronic processing limits on the amount of custodial balances that any single ODFI, or collectively all of our ODFIs, will underwrite;. 25. Table of Contents. • reliance on sponsor banks, card payment processors and other payment service provider partners to process electronic transactions;. • failure by us or our sponsor banks to adhere to applicable laws and regulatory requirements or the standards of the electronic payments rules and regulations and other rules and regulations that may impact the provision of electronic payment services;. • continually evolving and developing laws and regulations governing payment processing and money transmission, the application or interpretation of which is not clear in some jurisdictions;. • incidences of fraud, a security breach or our failure to comply with required external audit standards;. • our inability to increase our fees at times when electronic payment partners or associations increase their transaction processing fees; and. • repricing actions taken by card associations or payment networks or imposed as a result of governmental regulation or due to competitive pressures, which could negatively impact the prices we can charge customers for our services.. If any of these risks related to our electronic payment processing business were to materialize, our business or financial results could be negatively affected. Although we attempt to structure and adapt our payment processing operations to comply with these complex and evolving laws and regulations, our efforts may not guarantee compliance. In the event that we are found to be in violation of these legal requirements, we may be subject to monetary fines, cease and desist orders, mandatory product changes, or other penalties that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, with respect to the processing of EFTs, we are exposed to financial risk and EFTs between a renter and our client may be returned for various reasons such as insufficient funds or stop payment orders. These returns are charged back to the client by us. However, if we or our sponsor banks are unable to collect such amounts from the client's account or if the client refuses or is unable to reimburse us for the chargeback, we bear the risk of loss for the amount of the transfer. While we have not experienced material losses resulting from chargebacks in the past, there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our clients may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We entered into a service provider agreement with a financial institution merchant service provider under which we are a registered independent sales organization, or ISO, of the merchant service providers. The merchant service provider acts as a merchant acquiring bank for processing our client credit card and debit card payments (\"Card Payments\"), and we serve as an ISO. As an ISO, we assume the underwriting risk for processing Card Payments on behalf of our clients. If we experience excessive chargebacks, either we or the merchant service provider has the authority to cease client card processing services, and such events could result in a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income, and reputation.. Evolution and expansion of our payment processing business may subject us to additional regulatory requirements and other risks, for which failure to comply or adapt could harm our operating results.. The evolution and expansion of our payment processing business may subject us to additional risks and regulatory requirements, including laws governing money transmission and payment processing/settlement services. These requirements vary throughout the markets in which we operate, and have increased over time as the geographic scope and complexity of our product services have expanded. While we maintain a compliance program focused on applicable laws and regulations throughout the payments industry, there is no guarantee that we will not be subject to fines, criminal and civil lawsuits or other regulatory enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions, or be required to adjust business practices to accommodate future regulatory requirements.. In order to maintain flexibility in the growth and expansion of our payments operations, we have obtained money transmitter licenses (or their equivalents) in several states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and expect to continue the license application process in additional jurisdictions throughout the United States as needed to accommodate new product development. Our efforts to acquire and maintain these licenses could result in significant management time, effort, and cost, and may still not guarantee compliance given the constant state of change in these regulatory frameworks. Accordingly, costs associated with changes in compliance requirements, regulatory audits, enforcement actions, reputational harm, or other regulatory limits on our ability to grow our payment processing business could adversely affect our financial results.. Because certain solutions we provide depend on access to client data, decreased access to this data or the failure to comply with the evolving laws and regulations governing privacy of data, cloud computing and cross-border data transfers, or the failure to address privacy concerns applicable to such data, could harm our business.. Certain of our solutions depend on our continued access to our clients' data regarding their prospective and current renters, including data compiled by other third-party service providers who collect and store data on behalf of our clients. Federal, state and foreign governments have adopted and continue to adopt new laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage, transmission, use and disclosure of personal information. Such laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other requirements could reduce. 26. Table of Contents. demand for our solutions or restrict our ability to store and process data or, in some cases, impact our ability to offer our services and solutions in certain locations.. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy and other industry groups have established or may establish new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. Our clients may expect us to meet voluntary certification or other standards established by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to certain clients and could harm our business.. Any restrictions on the use of or decrease in the availability of data from our clients, or other third parties that collect and store such data on behalf of our clients, and the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, applicable legislative and regulatory initiatives may limit our ability to collect, aggregate or use this data. Any limitations on our ability to collect, aggregate or use such data could reduce demand for certain of our solutions. Additionally, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy laws, regulations and policies, could result in liability to us or damage to our reputation and could inhibit sales and market acceptance of our solutions and harm our business.. Assertions by a third party that we infringe its intellectual property, whether successful or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses.. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation, misuse and other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed or otherwise misappropriated the intellectual property rights or terms of use of others. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims against their use. Since we currently have a limited number of patents, we may not be able to use patent infringement as a defensive strategy in such litigation. Additionally, although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. If such patents are invalidated or circumvented, this may allow existing and potential competitors to develop products and services that are competitive with, or superior to, our solutions.. Many of our client agreements require us to indemnify our clients for certain third-party claims, such as intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling or settlement related to any such claims. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our clients, may deter future clients from purchasing our solutions or could expose us to litigation for these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a client and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party.. Litigation could force us to stop selling, incorporating or using our solutions that include the challenged intellectual property or redesign those solutions that use the technology. In addition, we may have to pay damages if we are found to be in violation of a third party's rights. We may have to procure a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, may significantly increase our operating expenses or may require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. There is no assurance that we would be able to develop alternative solutions or, if alternative solutions were developed, that they would perform as required or be accepted in the relevant markets. In some instances, if we are unable to offer non-infringing technology, or obtain a license for such technology, we may be required to refund some or the entire license fee paid for the infringing technology by our clients.. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Such risks include, without limitation, patent infringement risks, copyright infringement risks, risks arising from the inclusion of open source software that is subject to onerous license provisions that could even require disclosure of our proprietary source code, or violations of terms of use for third party solutions that our acquisition targets use. Third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.. Any failure to protect and successfully enforce our intellectual property rights could compromise our proprietary technology and impair our brands.. Our success depends on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies we use in our solutions. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our competitors could use the intellectual property we have developed to enhance their own products and services, which could harm our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We currently have a limited number of issued patents and pending patent applications, and we may be unable to obtain patent protection in the future. In addition, if any patents are issued in the future, they may not provide us with any competitive advantages, may not be issued in a manner that gives us the. 27. Table of Contents. protection that we seek and may be successfully challenged by third parties. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use the technologies underlying our solutions. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technologies is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who have not incurred the substantial expense, time and effort required to create similar innovative products.. We cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. If we are unable to secure new marks, maintain already existing marks and enforce the rights to use such marks against unauthorized third-party use, our ability to brand, identify and promote our solutions in the marketplace could be impaired, which could harm our business.. We customarily enter into agreements with our employees, contractors and certain parties with whom we do business to limit access to, use of, and disclosure of our confidential and proprietary information. The legal and technical steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, we may be required to release the source code of our software to third parties under certain circumstances. For example, some of our client agreements provide that if we cease to maintain or support a certain solution without replacing it with a successor solution, then we may be required to release the source code of the software underlying such solution. In addition, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Moreover, it may be difficult or practically impossible to detect copyright infringement or theft of our software code. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions being successful against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving.. Additionally, as we sell our solutions internationally, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available or as robust in every country in which our solutions are available. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors outside the United States from infringing or otherwise misappropriating our intellectual property rights, which could reduce our competitive position and ability to compete or otherwise harm our business.. We may be unable to halt the operations of websites that aggregate or misappropriate data from our websites.. From time to time, third parties have misappropriated data from our websites through website scraping, software robots or other means and aggregated this data on their websites with data from other companies. In addition, copycat websites have misappropriated data on our network and attempted to imitate our brand or the functionality of our website. When we have become aware of such websites, we have employed technological or legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations. However, we may be unable to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to halt their operations. In some cases, particularly in the case of websites operating outside of the United States, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against the impact of the operation of such websites. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against the operators of these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources, which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, to the extent that such activity creates confusion among consumers or advertisers, our brand and business could be harmed.. Legal proceedings against us could be costly and time consuming to defend.. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, including claims brought by our clients or vendors in connection with commercial disputes, claims brought by our clients' current or prospective renters, including class action lawsuits based on asserted statutory or regulatory violations, employment-based claims made by our current or former employees, administrative agencies, government regulators, or insurers.. As previously disclosed, in March 2015, we were named in a purported class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, styled Stokes v. RealPage, Inc., Case No. 2:15-cv-01520. The claims in this purported class action relate to alleged violations of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (\"FCRA\") in connection with background screens of prospective tenants of our clients.. As previously disclosed, in November 2014, we were named in a purported class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, styled Jenkins v. RealPage, Inc., Case No. 3:14cv758. The claims in this purported class action relate to alleged violations of the FCRA in connection with background screens of prospective tenants of our clients.. Following various procedural motions, on June 19, 2017, the court in both the Stokes case and Jenkins case consolidated the cases for purposes of settlement. On June 30, 2017, the parties signed a Settlement Agreement and Release covering both cases and the plaintiffs in the consolidated cases filed an uncontested motion for preliminary approval of the class action settlement and the notice to the class. On August 3, 2017, the court issued a written order preliminarily approving the proposed. 28. Table of Contents. class settlement. Following the final approval hearing on February 6, 2018, the court entered an order granting final approval of the settlement.. On February 23, 2015, we received from the FTC a Civil Investigative Demand consisting of interrogatories and a request to produce documents relating to our compliance with the FCRA. We responded to the request and requests for additional information by the FTC. On November 2, 2017, the FTC staff informed us of its belief that there is a basis for claims that could include monetary and injunctive relief against us for failing to follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of our tenant screening reports. We are continuing to assess the matter and plan to have further discussions with the FTC. We believe that our business practices did not, and do not, violate the FCRA or any other laws, and we intend to vigorously defend our position. However, we are unable to predict the outcome of this matter at this time.. Litigation, enforcement actions and other legal proceedings, regardless of their outcome, may result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and our resources, which may harm our business, overall financial condition and operating results. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. Although we maintain insurance, there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or sufficient to cover any such legal proceedings or claims. For example, insurance may not cover such legal proceedings or claims or the insurer may withhold or dispute coverage of such legal proceedings or claims on various grounds, including by alleging such coverage is beyond the scope of such policies, that we are not in compliance with the terms of such insurance policies or that such policies are not in effect, even after proceeds under such insurance policies have been received by us. In addition, insurance may not be sufficient for one or more such legal proceedings or claims and may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. A legal proceeding or claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby harming our operating results.. We could be sued for contract, warranty or product liability claims, and such lawsuits may disrupt our business, divert management's attention and our financial resources or have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We provide warranties to clients of certain of our solutions and services relating primarily to product functionality, network uptime, critical infrastructure availability and hardware replacement. General errors, defects, inaccuracies or other performance problems in the software applications underlying our solutions or inaccuracies in or loss of the data we provide to our clients could result in financial or other damages to our clients. Additionally, errors associated with any delivery of our services, including utility billing, could result in financial or other damages to our clients. There can be no assurance that any warranty disclaimers, general disclaimers, waivers or limitations of liability set forth in our contracts would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions, in amounts and under terms that we believe are appropriate. There can be no assurance that this coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large product liability claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage for any future claim or dispute coverage of such legal proceedings or claims even after proceeds under such insurance policies have been received by us. The successful assertion of one or more large product liability claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. The rental housing industry, electronic commerce and many of the products and services that we offer, including background screening services, utility billing, affordable housing compliance and audit services, insurance and payments are subject to extensive and evolving governmental regulation. Changes in regulations or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our operating results.. The rental housing industry is subject to extensive and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations. Our services and solutions must work within the extensive and evolving legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our clients and third-party service providers, including, but not limited to, those under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Deceptive Trade Practices Act, the Drivers Privacy Protection Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the United States Tax Reform Act of 1986 (TRA86), which is an IRS law governing tax credits, the Privacy Rules, Safeguards Rule and Consumer Report Information Disposal Rule promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, the FTC's Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), the CAN-SPAM Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the regulations of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, or HUD, HIPAA/HITECH, rules and regulations of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and complex and divergent state and local laws and regulations related to data privacy and security, credit and consumer reporting, deceptive trade practices, discrimination in housing, telemarketing, electronic communications, call recording, utility billing and energy and gas consumption. These regulations are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time. Although we attempt to structure and adapt our solutions and service offerings to comply with these complex and evolving laws and regulations, we may be found to be in violation. If we are found to be in violation of any applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to administrative and other enforcement actions as well as class action lawsuits or demands for client reimbursement. Additionally, many applicable laws and regulations provide for penalties or assessments on a per occurrence basis. Due to the nature of our business, the type of services we provide and the large number of transactions processed by our. 29. Table of Contents. solutions, our potential liability in an enforcement action or class action lawsuit could be significant. In addition, entities such as HUD, the FTC and the CFPB have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations that may impact our clients and our business.. On February 23, 2015, we received from the FTC a Civil Investigative Demand consisting of interrogatories and a request to produce documents relating to our compliance with the FCRA. We responded to the request and requests for additional information by the FTC. On November 2, 2017, the FTC staff informed us of its belief that there is a basis for claims that could include monetary and injunctive relief against us for failing to follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of our tenant screening reports. We are continuing to assess the matter and plan to have further discussions with the FTC. We believe that our business practices did not, and do not, violate the FCRA or any other laws, and we intend to vigorously defend our position. However, we are unable to predict the outcome of this matter at this time.. We believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personally identifiable information or consumer information could affect our clients' ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our on demand software solutions. In October 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework, which had been the primary compliance mechanism for establishing data transfers outside of the European Economic Area in accordance with the European Union's Data Protection Directive 95-46 EC. In July 2016, the U.S. and European Union entered into a new compliance framework, (the \"Privacy Shield\"), which was intended to replace the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor framework. The Privacy Shield is subject to review by European courts, and this creates some uncertainty regarding compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations. While alternative compliance options exist, the long-term viability of the overall compliance framework remains in question, which could result in increased regulation, cost of compliance and limitations on data transfers for both our clients and us.  Beginning in May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") will become effective in the European Union. The GDPR imposes new requirements upon companies in the EU or operating in the EU regarding the handling of personal data. If we are unable to meet the requirements of applicable privacy laws and regulations, the Privacy Shield or GDPR with respect to our services subject to these provisions, we may incur monetary or other penalties which could harm our business or financial condition.. Some of our LeaseStar products operate under the real estate brokerage laws of numerous states and require maintaining licenses in many of these states. Brokerage laws in these states could change, affecting our ability to provide some LeaseStar or, if applicable, other products in these states.. We deliver our on demand software solutions over the Internet and sell and market certain of our solutions over the Internet. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. Taxation of products or services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of on demand software solutions, which could harm our business and operating results.. Our LeasingDesk insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth.. Through our wholly owned subsidiary, Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC, we hold insurance agent licenses from a number of individual state departments of insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision in connection with the operation of our LeasingDesk insurance business. In addition, Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC has appointed numerous sub-producing agents to generate insurance business for its eRenterPlan product. These sub-producing agents primarily consist of property owners and managers who market the eRenterPlan to residents. The sub-producing agents are subject to the same state regulation and supervision, and Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC cannot ensure that these sub-producing agents will not violate these regulations, and thus expose the LeasingDesk business to sanctions by these state departments of insurance for any such violations. Furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. This state governmental supervision could reduce our profitability or limit the growth of our LeasingDesk insurance business by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the solutions we provide or the methods by which we provide them or subjecting us to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. Our continued ability to maintain these insurance agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions.. In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations, as well as regulate rates that may be charged for premiums on policies. Accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of the activities of our LeasingDesk insurance business or fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our LeasingDesk insurance business can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past.. 30. Table of Contents. Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC is required to maintain a 50-state general agency insurance license as well as individual insurance licenses for each sales agent involved in the solicitation of insurance products. Both the agency and individual licenses require compliance with state insurance regulations, payment of licensure fees, and continuing education programs. In the event that regulatory compliance requirements are not met, Multifamily Internet Ventures LLC could be subject to license suspension or revocation, state Department of Insurance audits and regulatory fines. As a result, our ability to engage in the business of insurance could be restricted, and our revenue and financial results will be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock. The concentration of our capital stock owned by insiders may limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. Our executive officers, directors, and entities affiliated with them together beneficially owned approximately 26.2% of our common stock as of December 31, 2017. Of such amount, Stephen T. Winn, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and entities beneficially owned by Mr. Winn held an aggregate of approximately 24.0% of our common stock as of December 31, 2017. This significant concentration of ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Mr. Winn and entities beneficially owned by Mr. Winn may exert significant influence over our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders.. The trading price of our common stock price may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including, but not limited to, those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, some of which are beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include:. • variations in our operating results or in expectations regarding our operating results;. • variations in operating results of similar companies;. • changes in our financial guidance and how our actual results compare to such guidance;. • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any research analysts that elect to follow our common stock;. • announcements of technological innovations, new solutions or enhancements, strategic alliances or agreements by us or by our competitors;. • announcements by competitors regarding their entry into new markets, and new product, service and pricing strategies;. • marketing, advertising or other initiatives by us or our competitors;. • increases or decreases in our sales of products and services for use in the management of units by clients and increases or decreases in the number of units managed by our clients;. • threatened or actual litigation;. • major changes in our board of directors or management;. • recruitment or departure of key personnel;. • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole;. • the overall performance of the equity markets;. • sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders;. • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock-based expense under applicable accounting standards; and. • adoption or modification of regulations, policies, procedures or programs applicable to our business.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology and specifically Internet-related companies, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may harm the market price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these. 31. Table of Contents. companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and our resources, whether or not we are successful in such litigation.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock.. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity.. The Note Hedges and Warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of the Convertible Notes, we entered into Note Hedges transactions with the option counterparties. We also entered into Warrant transactions with the option counterparties. The Note Hedges transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of Convertible Notes once converted, as the case may be. However, the Warrants could separately have a dilutive effect on our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the Warrants.. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the Note Hedges and Warrants, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates expected to enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the Convertible Notes. The option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify any such hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the Convertible Notes). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include:. • a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms;. • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • authorizing our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and. • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals.. These and other provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions.. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline.. We expect that the trading price for our common stock may be affected by research or reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. If we do not pay cash dividends, you would receive a return on your investment in our common stock only if the market price of our common stock has increased when you sell your shares. In addition, the terms of our credit facilities currently restrict our ability to pay dividends. See additional discussion under the Dividend Policy heading of Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 32. Table of Contents"
