[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report.  The risk factors generally have been separated into three primary groups:  (1) risks relating to our business; (2) risks relating to our indebtedness; and (3) risks relating to an investment in our common stock.  Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company and our common stock.  However, the risks and uncertainties are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below.  In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Related to Our Business. Macroeconomic Conditions. The residential real estate market is cyclical and we are negatively impacted by downturns and constraints in this market.. The residential real estate market tends to be cyclical and typically is affected by changes in general economic conditions which are beyond our control.  The U.S. residential real estate industry was in a significant and lengthy downturn from the second half of 2005 through 2011.  Beginning in 2012, the U.S. residential real estate industry began a recovery.  We cannot predict whether the housing market will continue to improve or maintain a steady state.  If the residential real estate market or the economy as a whole does not continue to improve or worsens, our business, financial condition and liquidity may be materially adversely affected, including our ability to access capital and grow our business.. Any of the following could halt or limit the current growth of the housing market and have a material adverse effect on our business by causing a lack of sustained growth or a decline in the number of homesales and/or prices which in turn, could adversely affect our revenues and profitability:. • high levels of unemployment and/or continued slow wage growth;. • a period of slow economic growth or recessionary conditions;. • increasing mortgage rates and down payment requirements and/or constraints on the availability of mortgage financing;. • weak credit markets;. • insufficient or excessive regional home inventory levels;. • a low level of consumer confidence in the economy and/or the residential real estate market due to macroeconomic events domestically or internationally;. • instability of financial institutions;. • legislative or regulatory changes (including changes in regulatory interpretations or regulatory practices) that would adversely impact the residential real estate market;. • federal and/or state income tax changes and other tax reform affecting real estate and/or real estate transactions, including, in particular, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"2017 Tax Act\");. • renewed high levels of foreclosure activity;. • adverse changes in local or regional economic conditions, particularly in states where our business is concentrated;. • the inability or unwillingness of homeowners to enter into homesale transactions due to first-time homebuyer concerns about investing in a home and move-up buyers having limited or negative equity in their existing homes;. • a decrease in the affordability of homes;. • decreasing home ownership rates, declining demand for real estate and changing social attitudes toward home ownership; and/or. • natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, mudslides and other events that disrupt local or regional real estate markets.. In addition, homesale inventory levels for the mainstream housing market have been declining over the past several years due to strong demand.  According to NAR, the inventory of existing homes for sale in the U.S. was 1.5 million and 1.7 million at the end of December 2017 and December 2016, respectively.  The December 2017 inventory represents a national average supply of 3.2 months at the current homesales pace which is significantly below the 5.9 month 25-year average as of December 31, 2017.  The national average supply at the then-current homesales pace for December 31, 2016, 2015 and. 23. Table of Contents. 2014 was 3.6 months, 3.9 months and 4.4 months, respectively.  If interest rates were to rise, homebuilders may determine to discontinue or delay new projects, which could further contribute to inventory constraints.  While a continuation of low inventory levels may contribute to favorable demand conditions and improved homesale price growth, insufficient inventory levels have had a negative impact on homesale volume growth and may increase competition for homes and limit the proclivity of current homeowners to purchase an alternate home.  Ongoing constraints on home inventory levels may continue to have an adverse impact on the number of homesale transactions for our company owned brokerage business and the businesses of our franchisees, which may limit our ability to grow revenue.. The passage of the 2017 Tax Act may have a negative impact on homeownership rates and homesale transaction activity, which could adversely affect our profitability.. The 2017 Tax Act, which became law on December 22, 2017, includes provisions that, among other things:. • reduce individual federal tax brackets at most income levels;. • increase the standard deduction from $12,700 to $24,000 for married taxpayers filing a joint return;. • caps the aggregate amount of property, sales and state and local income tax deductions at $10,000;. • reduce the principal amount to which the home mortgage interest deduction will be available to potentially impacted U.S. taxpayers who enter into a mortgage on or after December 15, 2017 from $1,000,000 to $750,000, while entirely suspending interest deductibility of home equity loans; and. • suspend the deductibility of certain home moving expenses.. These changes affecting individual taxpayers will cease to apply after December 31, 2025 unless further extended by future legislation.  Certain of these provisions of the 2017 Tax Act, alone or in combination, directly impact traditional incentives associated with home ownership and may reduce the financial distinction between renting and owning a home for many households who are U.S. residents for federal income tax purposes at certain income levels, which may have a negative impact on the national homeownership rate.  In addition, certain existing homeowners may be less likely to purchase a larger or more expensive home or refinance a mortgage given the reduced mortgage interest deductibility opportunities (from $1,000,000 to $750,000 on mortgages that are not grandfathered) and lessened property tax deductibility.  The reduction in state and local tax deductibility impacts all households, including renters, particularly in states with higher taxes.  It is unclear what impact, if any, this will have on the mobility of such state residents, or on home values in such geographies, although it may result in some shift in the value of homes from high tax states (where the deductibility of such taxes may be limited beyond previous levels) to those states with low or no state income tax.  The effects of the 2017 Tax Act on average homesale prices may be more impactful in states where average home prices, state and local incomes taxes, and/or property taxes are high, including California and the New York tri-state area, where our company owned brokerage and our franchisee businesses maintain a material presence.  In addition, the suspension of the deduction for certain moving expenses may result in fewer instances of specific relocation services.. Reductions in the number of homesale transactions or average homesale price or reductions in or changes to the types of relocation services provided could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.. Adverse developments in general business and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations.. Our business and operations and those of our franchisees are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and worldwide.  These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, levels of unemployment, consumer confidence and the general condition of the U.S. and the world economy.. The residential real estate market also depends upon the strength of financial institutions, which are sensitive to changes in the general macroeconomic environment.  Lack of available credit or lack of confidence in the financial sector could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A host of factors beyond our control could cause fluctuations in these conditions, including the political environment, disruptions in a major geoeconomic region, or equity or commodity markets and acts or threats of war or terrorism which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies may have a material impact on our operations.. Our business is significantly affected by the monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.  We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S.  The Federal Reserve Board's policies impact the real estate market through their effect on interest rates as well as the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities.. We could be negatively impacted by any rising interest rate environment.  As mortgage rates rise, the number of homesale transactions may decrease as potential home sellers choose to stay with their lower mortgage rate rather than sell their home and pay a higher mortgage rate with the purchase of another home, and potential home buyers choose to rent rather than pay higher mortgage rates.  An increase in mortgage rates would also be expected to reduce the number of homesale refinancing transactions, which could materially adversely impact our earnings from our mortgage origination joint venture as well as the revenue stream of our title and settlement services segment.  Changes in the Federal Reserve Board's policies, the interest rate environment and mortgage market are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Strategic and Operational. Our company owned brokerage operations are subject to geographic and high-end real estate market risks, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Our subsidiary, NRT, owns real estate brokerage offices located in and around large metropolitan areas in the U.S.  Local and regional economic conditions in these locations could differ materially from prevailing conditions in other parts of the country.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, NRT realized approximately 27% of its revenues from California, 22% from the New York metropolitan area and 9% from Florida, which, in the aggregate, totals approximately 58% of its revenues.  A downturn in residential real estate demand or economic conditions that is concentrated in these regions could result in a decline in NRT's total gross commission income and profitability disproportionate to the downturn experienced throughout the U.S. and could have a material adverse effect on us.  The effects of the 2017 Tax Act on average homesale prices may be more impactful in states where average home prices, state and local incomes taxes, and/or property taxes are high, including California and the New York tri-state area.  In addition, given the significant geographic overlap of our title and settlement services business with our company owned brokerage offices, such regional declines affecting our company owned brokerage operations could have a disproportionate adverse effect on our title and settlement services business as well.  A downturn in residential real estate demand or economic conditions in these states could result in a decline in our overall revenues and have a material adverse effect on us.. NRT has a significant concentration of transactions at the higher end of the U.S. real estate market.  A shift in NRT's mix of property transactions from the high range to lower and middle range homes would adversely affect the average price of NRT's closed homesales.  Such a shift, absent an increase in transactions, would have an adverse effect on our operating results.  In addition, NRT continues to face heightened competition for both homesale transactions and high performing independent sales agents because of its prominent position in the higher end housing markets.. Moreover, NRT also has relationships with developers, primarily in major cities, to provide marketing and brokerage services in new developments.  Deceleration in the building of new housing and/or timing of closings of new developments may lead to lower unit sales in the new development market, which could have a material adverse effect on the revenue generated by NRT and our profitability.. Market competition, the influence of independent sales agents and the continued execution of our strategic initiatives may continue to shift a higher proportion of homesale commissions to affiliated independent sales agents or otherwise erode our share of the commission income generated by homesale transactions, which could negatively affect our profitability.. We believe that the influence of independent sales agents and independent sales agent teams has increased during the past five years and, together with increasing competition due to new entrants and the changing practices of existing competitors, has put, and could continue to put, downward pressure on industry margins, which could negatively impact our profitability.. Our company owned brokerage business introduced growth initiatives in late 2016 focused on the recruitment and retention of high performing independent sales agents through the use of financial incentives and best-in-class retention practices, among other things.  While these initiatives enabled us to mitigate declines in market share through the retention. 25. Table of Contents. of existing independent sales agents and improved recruiting success, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience adverse pressure on costs and margin from these initiatives.. There are also market participants who differentiate themselves by offering consumers lower commission rates on transactions.  Although such competitors have yet to have a material impact on overall brokerage commission rates, this could change in the future if they use greater discounts as a means to increase their market share or improve their value proposition.. If independent sales agents are paid a higher proportion of the commissions earned on a homesale transaction or the level of commission income we earn from a homesale transaction is otherwise reduced, the operating margins of our company owned residential brokerages or our franchisees could be adversely affected.. We may not successfully develop or procure technology, including Zap® product enhancements, that support the ability of our company owned and franchisee real estate brokerages and their affiliated independent sales agents to compete effectively and efficiently, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our future success depends in part on our ability to continuously develop and improve our technology products and services or procure such technology, in particular for our company owned and franchisee real estate brokerages, affiliated independent sales agents and their customers as well as for our relocation and title and settlement services segments.  We have expended, and expect to continue to expend, substantial time, capital, and other resources to identify the needs of our company owned brokerages, franchisees, independent sales agents and their customers and to develop technology and service offerings to meet those needs.. We may incur unforeseen expenses in the development of enhancements to the Zap platform or the advancement of other technology products and we may not be able to introduce new technologies as quickly as we would like or in a cost-effective manner.  In addition, we may be unable to attract and retain employees involved in developing our technology and systems.  Furthermore, we may not be successful, or as successful as our competitors, in procuring or developing technologies and systems that operate effectively across multiple devices and platforms in a way that is appealing or beneficial to our users and there can be no assurance that independent sales agents in our franchise system, including those affiliated with our company owned brokerages, or customers will use the Zap platform or other technology products we may develop.  Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our value proposition and the productivity of independent sales agents, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations.. Competition in the residential real estate and relocation business is intense and may adversely affect our financial performance.. We generally face intense competition in the residential real estate services business.. As a real estate brokerage franchisor, our products are our brand names and the support services we provide to our franchisees and our ability to grow our franchisor business is also dependent on the operational and financial success of our franchisees.. • Upon the expiration of a franchise agreement, a franchisee may choose to franchise with one of our competitors or operate as an independent broker.  Competitors may offer franchisees whose franchise agreements are expiring or prospective franchisees products and services similar to ours at rates that are lower than we charge.. • We face the risk that currently unaffiliated brokers may not enter into franchise agreements with us because they believe they can compete effectively in the market without the need to license a brand of a franchisor and receive services offered by a franchisor.  Additionally, unaffiliated brokers may decide not to enter into a franchise relationship with us as they may believe that their business will be more attractive to a prospective purchaser without the existence of a franchise relationship.. • Regional and local franchisors as well as franchisors offering different franchise models or services provide additional competitive pressure in certain areas.  To remain competitive in the sale of franchises and to retain our existing franchisees, we may have to reduce the fees we charge our franchisees, increase the amount of non-standard incentives we issue or take other actions or employ other models to be competitive with fees charged by competitors. In addition, the full-service traditional franchise model that we employ has experienced declines in market share over the past several years.  If this trend continues or if we fail to successfully diversify our franchise offerings, we may fail to attract new franchisees and existing franchisees may not renew their agreements with us.. 26. Table of Contents. • Our ability to succeed as a franchisor is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our franchisees to attract and retain independent sales agents, which is subject to numerous factors, including the sales commissions or other compensation they receive and their perception of brand value and the value of support services we provide.  Competition for sales agents in the real estate services industry, including within our franchise system, is high, in particular with respect to more productive sales agents.  Increasingly, independent sales agents have affiliated with brokerages that offer a different mix of services to the independent sales agents, allowing the independent sales agent to retain a greater percentage of the commission and purchase services from other vendors as needed.  If our franchisees fail to attract and retain successful independent sales agents or they fail to replace departing successful independent sales agents with similarly productive independent sales agents, our franchisees' gross commission income may decrease, resulting in a reduction in royalty fees paid to us.. • Listing aggregators and other web-based real estate service providers may also begin to compete for part of our franchisor service revenue through referral or other fees and could disintermediate our relationships with our franchisees and our franchisees' relationships with their independent sales agents and buyers and sellers of homes.. Our company owned brokerage business, like that of our franchisees, generally faces intense competition.  We compete with national and regional independent real estate brokerages and franchisors, franchisees of our brands and other real estate franchisors and discount and limited service brokerages for both business and independent sales agents.  Real estate brokers typically compete for business primarily on the basis of services offered, reputation, utilization of technology, personal contacts and brokerage commission.. • Competition is particularly severe in the densely populated metropolitan areas in which we operate.. • In addition, the real estate brokerage industry has minimal barriers to entry for new participants, including participants pursuing non-traditional methods of marketing real estate, such as brokers who discount their commissions and companies that employ technologies intended to disrupt the traditional brokerage model or minimize or eliminate the role brokers and sales agents perform in the homesale transaction process.  Other non-traditional models that operate outside of the brokerage industry, such as companies that leverage capital to purchase homes directly from sellers, having been gaining market attention in recent years.  Certain of our competitors are also increasingly well-funded, which strengthens their competitive position and ability to offer aggressive or alternative compensation arrangements to top-performing sales agents.  Moreover, a growing number of companies are competing in non-traditional ways for a portion of the gross commission income generated by homesale transactions.  For example, listing aggregators and other web-based real estate service providers not only compete for our company owned brokerage business by establishing relationships with independent sales agents and/or buyers and sellers of homes, they also increasingly charge brokerages and independent sales agents new fees for existing and new services.. • Our average homesale commission rate per side in our company owned real estate services segment has remained relatively constant from 2002 to 2017, changing from 2.62% in 2002 to 2.44% for the year ended December 31, 2017.  As with our real estate franchise business, a decrease in the average brokerage commission rate may adversely affect our revenues.. • We also compete for the services of qualified licensed independent sales agents.  Some of the firms competing for sales agents use different models of compensation, which may be appealing to certain sales agents and hinder our ability to attract and retain those agents.  The ability of our company owned brokerage offices to retain independent sales agents is generally subject to numerous factors, including the sales commissions they receive, their perception of brand value and provided support services, and markets served.  Competition for sales agents could reduce the commission amounts retained by our Company after giving effect to the split with independent sales agents and possibly increase the amounts that we spend on marketing.. In our relocation services business, we compete primarily with global and regional outsourced relocation service providers.  We have faced greater competition from firms that provide services on a global basis.  Competition is expected to continue to intensify as an increasingly higher percentage of relocation clients reduce their global relocation benefits and related spend.. The title and settlement services business is highly competitive and fragmented.  The number and size of competing companies vary in the different areas in which we conduct business.  In certain parts of the country we compete with small title agents and attorneys while in other parts of the country our competition is the larger title underwriters and national vendor management companies.. 27. Table of Contents. Our financial results are affected by the operating results of our franchisees.. Our real estate franchise services segment receives revenue in the form of royalties, which are based on a percentage of gross commission income earned by our franchisees.  Accordingly, the financial results of our real estate franchise services segment are dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees.  If industry trends or economic conditions are not sustained or do not continue to improve or if one or more of our top performing franchisees become less competitive, our franchisees' financial results may worsen and our royalty revenues may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.  In addition, we may have to increase our bad debt and note reserves.  We may also have to terminate franchisees due to non-payment.. If franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if we continue to induce franchisees to renew these agreements through lower royalty rates or higher incentives, then our royalty revenues may decrease, and profitability may be lower than in the past.  These risks are pronounced in years when a significant number of franchise agreements, which typically have a ten year term, are expiring.  In addition, although during 2017, none of our franchisees (other than NRT) generated more than 1% of our real estate franchise business, a significant majority of this segment's revenue is generated from our top 250 franchisees.  If one or more of our significant franchisees fail to renew their contracts with us, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected.. Our franchisees and their independent sales agents could take actions that could harm our business.. Our franchisees are independent business operators and we do not exercise control over their day-to-day operations.  Our franchisees may not successfully operate a real estate brokerage business in a manner consistent with industry standards, or may not affiliate with effective independent sales agents or employees.  If our franchisees or their independent sales agents were to provide diminished quality of service to customers, our image and reputation may suffer materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  Improper actions involving our franchisees, including regarding their relationships with independent sales agents, clients and employees, may also lead to direct claims against us based on theories of vicarious liability, negligence, joint operations and joint employer liability which, if determined adversely, could increase costs, negatively impact the business prospects of our franchisees and subject us to incremental liability for their actions.. Additionally, franchisees and their independent sales agents, including those handling properties for our relocation business, may engage or be accused of engaging in unlawful or tortious acts, such as violating the anti-discrimination requirements of the Fair Housing Act.  Such acts or the accusation of such acts could harm our brands' image, reputation and goodwill or compromise our relocation business relationships with clients.. Franchisees, as independent business operators, may from time to time disagree with us and our strategies regarding the business or our interpretation of our respective rights and obligations under the franchise agreement.  To the extent we have such disputes, the attention of our management and our franchisees will be diverted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Actions by the independent sales agents engaged by our company owned brokerages could materially and adversely affect our reputation and subject us to liability.. Our company owned brokerage operations rely on the performance of independent sales agents.  If the independent sales agents were to provide lower quality services to our customers, our image and reputation could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, we could also be subject to litigation and regulatory claims arising out of their performance of brokerage services, which if adversely determined, could materially and adversely affect us.. We do not own two of our brands and significant difficulties in the business of the brand owners could negatively reflect on the brand and the brand value.. The Sotheby's International Realty® and Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brands are owned by the companies that founded these brands.  We are the exclusive party licensed to run brokerage services in residential real estate under those brands, whether through our franchisees or our company owned operations.  Our future operations and performance with respect to these brands requires the successful protection of those brands.  Any significant difficulties in the business of the brand owners could negatively reflect on the brand and the brand value.. 28. Table of Contents. If one or more significant affinity clients or a significant number of our relocation clients cease or reduce volume under their contracts with us, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected.. Substantially all of our contracts with our affinity and relocation clients are terminable at any time at the option of the client, are non-exclusive and do not require such client to maintain any level of business with us.  If one or more significant affinity or relocation clients cease or reduce volume under their contracts with us, our revenues and profitability could be materially adversely affected.. If recent trends in corporate relocation practices continue, there could be fewer employee relocations, which may have a material adverse impact on the operating results of our relocation business.. Many of the general residential housing trends impacting our businesses that derive revenue from homesales also impact our relocation services business.  Additionally, key performance drivers of our relocation business include global corporate spending on relocation services, which continue to shift to lower cost relocation benefits as corporate clients engage in cost reduction initiatives and/or restructuring programs, as well as changes in employment relocation trends.  As a result of a shift in the mix of services and number of services being delivered per move, our relocation business has been increasingly subject to a competitive pricing environment and lower average revenue per relocation.  Lower volume growth, in particular with respect to global relocation activity, has also impacted the operating results of our relocation business. These factors may continue to put pressure on the growth and profitability of this segment.  In addition, the suspension of the deduction for certain moving expenses under the 2017 Tax Act could potentially contribute to fewer businesses offering these benefits and could result in fewer instances of these services.. We are reliant on third-party vendors to perform services on our behalf.. Aspects of our business, such as our relocation segment, are performed on our behalf by third-party vendors and cover a wide variety of services and such vendors may be in possession of personal information of our customers.  In many instances these suppliers are in direct contact with our customers in order to deliver services on our behalf.  If our third-party suppliers were to provide diminished services to our customers or face cybersecurity breaches of their information technology systems, our image and reputation could be materially adversely affected.  In addition, we could also be subject to litigation and regulatory claims arising out of the performance of our third-party suppliers based on theories of vicarious liability, negligence or failure to comply with laws and regulations including those related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act and those related to data protection and privacy, such as the General Data Protection Regulation, effective May 2018.. We are reliant upon information technology to operate our business and maintain our competitiveness.. Our ability to leverage our technology and data scale is critical to our long-term strategy.  Our business, including our ability to attract employees and independent sales agents, increasingly depends upon the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems, including technology and systems (cloud solutions, mobile and otherwise) utilized for communications, marketing, productivity tools, training, lead generation, records of transactions, business records (employment, accounting, tax, etc.), procurement, call center operations and administrative systems.  The operation of these technologies and systems is dependent upon third-party technologies, systems and services, for which there are no assurances of continued or uninterrupted availability and support by the applicable third-party vendors on commercially reasonable terms.  We also cannot assure that we will be able to continue to effectively operate and maintain our information technologies and systems.  In addition, our information technologies and systems are expected to require refinements and enhancements on an ongoing basis, and we expect that advanced new technologies and systems will continue to be introduced.  We may not be able to obtain such new technologies and systems, or to replace or introduce new technologies and systems as quickly as our competitors or in a cost-effective manner.  Also, we may not achieve the benefits anticipated or required from any new technology or system, and we may not be able to devote financial resources to new technologies and systems in the future.. Tightened mortgage underwriting standards could continue to reduce homebuyers' ability to access the credit markets on reasonable terms.. During the past several years, many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards and many alternative mortgage products have become less available in the marketplace.  More stringent mortgage underwriting standards could adversely affect the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes, which would adversely affect our operating results.. 29. Table of Contents. We may not realize the expected benefits from our mortgage origination joint venture.. Our joint venture with Guaranteed Rate began doing business in August 2017 on a phased-in basis.  We may not realize the expected benefits (including anticipated earnings and dividends) from the mortgage origination joint venture.  For example, changes affecting the mortgage industry in general, including but not limited to regulatory changes, increases in mortgage interest rates and decreases in operating margins, may have a material adverse impact on earnings and dividends from the joint venture.  Likewise, operational or liquidity risks that may be faced by the joint venture or our partner, such as litigation or regulatory investigations that may arise, could have a material adverse impact on the benefits we expect to realize from the venture.. In addition, under the Operating Agreement governing the joint venture, we own a 49.9% equity interest and have certain governance rights related to the joint venture, but do not have control of the day-to-day operations of the joint venture.  Rather, our joint venture partner, Guaranteed Rate, is the managing partner of the venture and may make decisions with respect to the day-to-day operation of the venture, which may harm the joint venture or be contrary to our best interests and may adversely affect our results of operations or equity interest in the joint venture.. Regulatory and Legal. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.. We face growing risks and costs related to cybersecurity threats to our data and customer, franchisee, employee and independent sales agent data, including but not limited to:. • the failure or significant disruption of our operations from various causes, including human error, computer malware, ransomware, insecure software, zero day threats, or other events related to our critical information technologies and systems;. • the increasing level and sophistication of cybersecurity attacks, including distributed denial of service attacks, data theft, fraud or malicious acts on the part of trusted insiders, social engineering, or other unlawful tactics aimed at compromising the systems and data of our officers, employees and franchisee and company owned brokerage sales agents and their customers (including via systems not directly controlled by us, such as those maintained by our franchisees, affiliated independent sales agents, joint venture partners and third party service providers, including our third-party relocation service providers); and. • the reputational and financial risks associated with a loss of data or material data breach (including unauthorized access to our proprietary business information or personal information of our customers, employees and independent sales agents), the transmission of computer malware, or the diversion of homesale transaction closing funds.. Global cybersecurity threats can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems via viruses, worms, and other malicious software, to phishing to advanced and targeted hacking launched by individuals or organizations.  These attacks may be directed at the Company, its employees, franchisees, third-party service providers, joint venture partners, and/or the independent sales agents of our franchisee and company owned brokerages and their customers.. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party service providers, our franchisee and company owned brokerage sales agents and our relocation business collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and intellectual property and that of our clients as well as personally identifiable information, sensitive financial information and other confidential information of our employees, customers and the customers of our franchisee and company owned brokerage sales agents.. Additionally, we increasingly rely on third-party data processing, storage providers, and critical infrastructure services, including cloud solution providers.  The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information are critical to our operations and with respect to information collected and stored by our third-party service providers, we are reliant upon their security procedures.  A breach or attack affecting one of our third-party service providers or partners could harm our business even if we do not control the service that is attacked.. Moreover, the real estate industry is actively targeted by cyber-attacker attempts to conduct electronic fraudulent activity (such as phishing), security breaches and similar attacks directed at participants in real estate services transactions. These attacks, when successful, can result in fraud, including wire fraud related to the diversion of homesale transaction. 30. Table of Contents. funds, or other harm, which could result in reputational damage to us, our brands, our franchisees, and our independent sales agents and could also result in material increases in our operational costs.  Further, these threats to our business may be wholly or partially beyond our control as our franchisees as well as our customers, franchisee and company owned brokerage independent sales agents and their customers and third-party service providers may use computers, smartphones and other devices and systems that are outside of our security control environment.  In addition, real estate transactions involve the transmission of funds by the buyers and sellers of real estate and consumers or other service providers selected by the consumer may be the subject of direct cyber-attacks that result in the fraudulent diversion of funds, notwithstanding efforts we have taken to educate consumers with respect to these risks.. In addition, the increasing prevalence and the evolution of cyber-attacks and other efforts to breach or disrupt our systems or those of our employees, customers, third-party service providers, joint venture partners, and/or franchisee and company owned brokerage sales agents and their customers, has led, and will likely continue to lead, to increased costs to us with respect to preventing, investigating, mitigating and remediating these risks, as well as any related attempted or actual fraud.. Moreover, we are required to comply with regulations both in the United States and in other countries where we do business that regulate cybersecurity, privacy and related matters.. While we, our third-party service providers and our franchisees and franchisee and company owned brokerage sales agents, our joint venture partners and our relocation business have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date has been material to the Company.  Although we employ measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, penetration testing, vulnerability assessments and maintenance of backup and protective systems), and conduct diligence on the security measures employed by key third-party service providers, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties, including personally identifiable information and financial information) and the disruption of business operations.. Our corporate errors and omissions and cybersecurity breach insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur.  The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include regulatory violations of applicable U.S. and international privacy and other laws, reputational damage, loss of market value, litigation with third parties (which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability), diminution in the value of the services we provide to our customers, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs (that may include liability for stolen assets or information), which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our competitiveness and results of operations.. We may experience significant claims relating to our operations, and losses resulting from fraud, defalcation or misconduct.. We issue title insurance policies which provide coverage for real property to mortgage lenders and buyers of real property.  When acting as a title agent issuing a policy on behalf of an underwriter, our insurance risk is typically limited to the first five thousand dollars for claims on any one policy, though our insurance risk is not limited if we are negligent.  Our title underwriter typically underwrites title insurance policies of up to $1.5 million.  For policies in excess of $1.5 million, we typically obtain a reinsurance policy from a national underwriter to reinsure the excess amount.  To date, our title underwriter has experienced claims losses that are significantly below the industry average; however, our claims experience could increase in the future, which could negatively impact the profitability of that business.  We may also be subject to legal claims or additional claims losses arising from the handling of escrow transactions and closings by our owned title agencies or our underwriter's independent title agents.  We carry errors and omissions insurance for errors made by our company owned brokerage business during the real estate settlement process as well as errors by us related to real estate services.  Our franchise agreements also require our franchisees to name us as an additional insured on their errors and omissions and general liability insurance policies.  The occurrence of a significant claim in excess of our insurance coverage (including any coverage under franchisee insurance policies) in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the period.  In addition, insurance carriers may dispute coverage for various reasons and there can be no assurance that all claims will be covered by insurance.. Fraud, defalcation and misconduct by employees are also risks inherent in our business, particularly given the high transactional volumes in our company owned brokerage, title and settlement services and our relocation businesses.  We may also from time to time be subject to liability claims based upon the fraud or misconduct of our franchisees.  To the extent that any loss or theft of funds substantially exceeds our insurance coverage, our business could be materially adversely affected.. 31. Table of Contents. If we fail to protect the privacy and personally identifiable information of our customers or employees, we may be subject to legal claims, government action and damage to our reputation.. We rely on the collection and use of personal information from customers to conduct our business.  We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations both in the United States and in other countries where we do business that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between or among countries.  These laws and their interpretations continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.  In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, including employee information.. Many of these foreign data privacy regulations (including the General Data Protection Regulation, which becomes effective in the European Union on May 25, 2018) are more stringent than those in the United States and may result in significantly greater compliance burdens and costs.  In addition, non-compliance with these regulations could result in penalties or significant legal liability for our acts and, potentially, for acts of companies that perform services on our behalf.. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. In addition, while we disclose our information collection and dissemination practices in a published privacy statement on our websites, which we may modify from time to time, we may be subject to legal claims, government action and damage to our reputation if we act or are perceived to be acting inconsistently with the terms of our privacy statement, customer expectations or state, national and international regulations.. The occurrence of a significant claim in excess of our insurance coverage in any given period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations during the period.  In the event we or the vendors with which we contract to provide services on behalf of our customers were to suffer a breach of personal information, our customers, such as our Cartus corporate or affinity clients, their employees or members, respectively, franchisees, independent sales agents and lender channel clients, could terminate their business with us.  Further, we may be subject to claims to the extent individual employees or independent contractors breach or fail to adhere to Company policies and practices and such actions jeopardize any personal information.. In addition, concern among potential home buyers or sellers about our privacy practices could result in regulatory investigations, especially in the European Union as related to its Data Privacy Directive or the General Data Protection Regulation once it becomes effective.  Additionally, concern among potential home buyers or sellers could keep them from using our services or require us to incur significant expense to alter our business practices or educate them about how we use personal information.. We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us, and adverse results may harm our business and financial condition.. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, the cost of prosecution, insurance coverage or the ultimate outcome of litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, including remedies or damage awards, and adverse results in such litigation and other proceedings, including treble damages and penalties.  Adverse outcomes may harm our business and financial condition.  Such litigation and other proceedings may include, but are not limited to:. • actions relating to claims alleging violations of RESPA (see Dodge litigation described in Note 13, \"Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation\", to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report) or state consumer fraud statutes, intellectual property, commercial arrangements, franchising arrangements, negligence and fiduciary duty claims arising from franchising arrangements or company owned brokerage operations or violations of similar laws in countries we operate in around the world;. • employment law claims, including claims challenging the classification of sales agents as independent contractors as well as wage and hour and joint employer claims;. • cybersecurity incidents, theft and data breach claims;. • actions against our title company for defalcations on closing payments or alleging it knew or should have known others were committing mortgage fraud;. • copyright infringement actions, including those alleging improper use of copyrighted photographs on websites or in marketing materials without consent of the copyright holder;. 32. Table of Contents. • brokerage disputes like the failure to disclose hidden defects in the property as well as other brokerage claims associated with listing information and property history, including disputes involving buyers of relocation property;. • vicarious or joint liability based upon the conduct of individuals or entities traditionally outside of our control, including franchisees and independent sales agents;. • antitrust and anti-competition claims;. • general fraud claims; and. • compliance with wage and hour regulations.. In addition, class action lawsuits can often be particularly burdensome litigation given the breadth of claims, the large potential damages claimed and the significant costs of defense.  The risks of litigation become magnified and the costs of settlement increase in class actions in which the courts grant partial or full certification of a large class.  In the case of intellectual property litigation and proceedings, adverse outcomes could include the cancellation, invalidation or other loss of material intellectual property rights used in our business and injunctions prohibiting our use of business processes or technology that is subject to third-party patents or other third-party intellectual property rights.  In addition, we may be required to enter into licensing agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all) and pay royalties.  Insurance coverage may be unavailable for certain types of claims and even where available, insurance carriers may dispute coverage for various reasons, including the cost of defense, and such insurance may not be sufficient to cover the losses we incur.. Adverse decisions in litigation against companies unrelated to us could impact our business practices and those of our franchisees in a manner that adversely impacts our financial condition and results of operations.. Litigation, claims and regulatory proceedings against other participants in the residential real estate or relocation industry may impact the Company when the rulings in those cases cover practices common to the broader industry.  Examples may include claims associated with RESPA compliance, broker fiduciary duties, and sales agent classification.  Similarly, the Company may be impacted by litigation and other claims against companies in other industries.  Rulings on matters such as the enforcement of arbitration agreements and worker classification may adversely affect the Company and other residential real estate industry participants as a result of the classification of sales agents as independent contractors, irrespective of the fact that the parties subject to the rulings are in a different industry.  There is active worker classification litigation in numerous jurisdictions, including Massachusetts, California, New Jersey and New York, against a variety of industries where the plaintiffs seek to reclassify independent contractors as employees or to challenge the use of federal and state minimum wage and overtime exemptions.  To the extent plaintiffs are successful in these types of litigation matters, and we or our franchisees cannot distinguish our or their practices (or our industry's practices), we and our franchisees could face significant liability and could be required to modify certain business relationships, either of which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Our relationship with our employees is subject to an array of different employment, tax reporting and regulatory obligations and any significant failure to comply with these obligations could materially and adversely affect our business.. In the U.S., these obligations relate to federal and state tax codes, federal and state wage and hour laws, state unemployment, workers' compensation and disability tax laws, right to organize and anti-discrimination and workplace safety laws.  Each state has unique wage and hour laws, which have been the subject of increasing litigation nationwide.  In addition, federal agencies and each state have its own rules and tests for classification of independent contractors as well as to determine whether employees meet exemptions from minimum wages and overtime laws.  These tests consider many factors that also vary from state to state.  The tests have evolved based on state case law decisions, regulations and legislative changes, and frequently involve factual analysis.  In addition, states have laws and regulations concerning the licensing of real estate agents.  While these laws and regulations may have separate provisions related to the classification of sales agents as independent contractors, there can be no assurance that courts will follow the tests in these real estate specific laws and regulations when they differ from those in labor statutes and regulations.  When companies are found to have misclassified workers as independent contractors instead of employees, courts can impose significant penalties and damages.. We are also subject to the unique wage and payroll-related laws of each other country in which we have employees, including employee right to privacy laws.  Failure to comply with these laws could result in significant penalties and damages.. The legal relationship between residential real estate brokers and licensed sales agents throughout the industry historically has been that of independent contractor.  Although we believe our classification practices are proper and. 33. Table of Contents. consistent with the legal framework for such classification, our company owned brokerage operations could face substantial litigation or disputes in direct claims or regulatory procedures, including the risk of court or regulatory determinations that certain groups of real estate agents should be reclassified as employees and entitled to unpaid minimum wage, overtime, benefits, expense reimbursement and other employment obligations.  Significant reclassification determinations in the absence of available exemptions from minimum wage or overtime laws, including damages and penalties for prior periods, could be disruptive to our business, constrain our operations in certain jurisdictions and have a material adverse effect on the operational and financial performance of the Company.  In addition, real estate agent reclassification could have a material adverse effect on the operational and financial performance of our franchisees and our competitors.. The weakening or unavailability of our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our business.. Our trademarks, trade names, domain names and other intellectual property rights are fundamental to our brands and our franchising business.  The steps we take to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and, in particular, we may not own all necessary registrations for our intellectual property.  Applications we have filed to register our intellectual property may not be approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities.  Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property rights without our authorization or independently developing technology that is similar to ours.  Also, third parties may own rights in similar trademarks.  Any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties could reduce our competitive advantages or otherwise harm our business and brands.  If we had to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be costly, and we may not prevail.  Our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, may fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions that do not have or do not enforce strong intellectual property rights.. We cannot be certain that our intellectual property does not and will not infringe issued intellectual property rights of others.  We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties.  Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation.  Depending on the success of these proceedings, we may be required to enter into licensing or consent agreements (if available on acceptable terms or at all), or to pay damages or cease using certain service marks or trademarks.. We franchise our brands to franchisees.  While we try to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure that these franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or our reputation.. Our license agreement with Sotheby's for the use of the Sotheby's International Realty® brand is terminable by Sotheby's prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following:  (1) we attempt to assign any of our rights under the license agreement in any manner not permitted under the license agreement, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, (3) a court issues a non-appealable, final judgment that we have committed certain breaches of the license agreement and we fail to cure such breaches within 60 days of the issuance of such judgment, or (4) we discontinue the use of all of the trademarks licensed under the license agreement for a period of twelve consecutive months.. Our license agreement with Meredith Corporation (\"Meredith\") for the use of the Better Homes and Gardens® Real Estate brand is terminable by Meredith prior to the end of the license term if certain conditions occur, including but not limited to the following:  (1) we attempt to assign any of our rights under the license agreement in any manner not permitted under the license agreement, (2) we become bankrupt or insolvent, or (3) a trial court issues a final judgment that we are in material breach of the license agreement or any representation or warranty we made was false or materially misleading when made.. Several of our businesses are highly regulated and any failure to comply with such regulations or any changes in such regulations could adversely affect our business.. The sale of franchises is regulated by various state laws as well as by the Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\").  The FTC requires that franchisors make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration.  A number of states require registration and/or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales.  In addition, several states have \"franchise relationship laws\" or \"business opportunity laws\" that limit the ability of franchisors to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements.. 34. Table of Contents. Our company owned real estate brokerage business must comply with the requirements governing the licensing and conduct of real estate brokerage and brokerage-related businesses in the jurisdictions in which we do business.  These laws and regulations contain general standards for and limitations on the conduct of real estate brokers and sales agents, including those relating to licensing of brokers and sales agents, fiduciary, agency and statutory duties, administration of trust funds, collection of commissions, advertising and consumer disclosures.  Under state law, our real estate brokers have certain duties and are responsible for the conduct of their brokerage business.. Our company owned real estate brokerage business, our relocation business, our mortgage origination joint venture, our title and settlement service business and the businesses of our franchisees (excluding commercial brokerage transactions) must comply with the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (\"RESPA\").  RESPA and comparable state statutes prohibit providing or receiving payments, or other things of value, for the referral of business to settlement service providers in connection with the closing of real estate transactions involving federally-backed mortgages.  RESPA and related regulations do, however, contain a number of provisions that allow for payments or fee splits between providers, including fee splits between brokers and agents, fees splits between brokers, and market-based fees for the provision of actual goods or services.  In addition, RESPA allows for referrals to affiliated entities, including joint ventures, when specific requirements have been met.  We rely on these provisions in conducting our business activities and believe our arrangements comply with RESPA.  RESPA, however, has become a greater challenge in recent years for most industry participants offering settlement services, including mortgage companies, title companies and brokerages, because of changes in the regulatory environment and expansive interpretations of RESPA or similar state statutes by certain courts.  With the passage of Dodd-Frank in 2010, primary responsibility for enforcement of RESPA has shifted to the CFPB.  The CFPB has, in the recent past, taken a much stricter approach toward interpretation of RESPA and related regulations than the prior regulatory authority (the Department of Housing and Urban Development) and has become significantly more active in the use of enforcement proceedings.  In the face of this changing regulatory landscape, various industry participants, while disagreeing with the CFPB's narrow interpretation of RESPA, have nevertheless decided to modify or terminate long-standing business arrangements to avoid the risk of protracted and costly litigation defending such arrangements.  RESPA also has been invoked by plaintiffs in private litigation for various purposes.  Moreover, a recent change in leadership at the CFPB, which is currently subject to legal challenge, has contributed further uncertainty with respect to RESPA interpretation and compliance.  However, permissible activities under state statutes similar to RESPA may be interpreted more narrowly and enforcement proceedings of those statutes by state regulatory authorities may also be aggressively pursued.. Our title insurance business also is subject to regulation by insurance and other regulatory authorities in each state in which we provide title insurance.  Additionally, our relocation business operates certain insurance programs that are subject to certain regulations. State regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on our ability to take actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results.. We are also, to a lesser extent, subject to various other rules and regulations such as \"controlled business\" statutes, which impose limitations on affiliations between providers of title and settlement services, on the one hand, and real estate brokers, mortgage lenders and other real estate providers, on the other hand, or similar laws or regulations that would limit or restrict transactions among affiliates in a manner that would limit or restrict collaboration among our businesses.. In all of our business units there is a risk that we could be adversely affected by current laws, regulations or interpretations or that more restrictive laws, regulations or interpretations could increase responsibilities and duties to customers and franchisees and other parties, the adoption of which could make compliance more difficult or expensive.  There is also a risk that a change in current laws could adversely affect our business.  In addition, any adverse changes in regulatory interpretations, rules and laws that would place additional limitations or restrictions on affiliated transactions could have the effect of limiting or restricting collaboration among our business units.  We cannot assure you that future changes in legislation, regulations or interpretations will not adversely affect our business operations.. For example, in 2008, the Justice Department and the FTC entered into a settlement agreement with NAR related, in part, to the cooperative sharing of entries in traditional multiple listing services with online-only brokers.  The 2008 settlement agreement expires in November 2018 and in response to Congressional inquiries, the Justice Department and the FTC will co-host a workshop on competition dynamics in the real estate services industry.  There can be no assurances as to whether the Justice Department and the FTC will determine that certain industry practices or developments have an anti-competitive effect on the industry.  Any such determination by the Justice Department and the FTC could result in industry investigations, legislative or regulatory action or other actions, any of which could have the potential to disrupt our business.. Regulatory authorities also have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations.  Accordingly, such regulatory authorities could prevent or temporarily suspend us from carrying on. 35. Table of Contents. some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us if our financial condition or our practices were found not to comply with the then current regulatory or licensing requirements or any interpretation of such requirements by the regulatory authority.  Our failure to comply with any of these requirements or interpretations could limit our ability to renew current franchisees or sign new franchisees or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our international business activities, and in particular our relocation business, must comply with applicable laws and regulations that impose sanctions on improper payments, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. Bribery Act and similar laws of other countries.. Our failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties, injunctions and/or potential criminal violations.  Any changes to these laws or regulations or any new laws or regulations may make it more difficult for us to operate our business and may have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Other Business Risks. We could be subject to significant losses if banks do not honor our escrow and trust deposits.. Our company owned brokerage business and our title and settlement services business act as escrow agents for numerous customers.  As an escrow agent, we receive money from customers to hold until certain conditions are satisfied.  Upon the satisfaction of those conditions, we release the money to the appropriate party.  We deposit this money with various banks and while these deposits are not assets of the Company (and therefore excluded from our consolidated balance sheet), we remain contingently liable for the disposition of these deposits.  The banks may hold a significant amount of these deposits in excess of the federal deposit insurance limit.  If any of our depository banks were to become unable to honor any portion of our deposits, customers could seek to hold us responsible for such amounts and, if the customers prevailed in their claims, we could be subject to significant losses.  These escrow and trust deposits totaled $469 million at December 31, 2017.. Our reliance on third-party vendors for key components of our business could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Many components of our business, including information technology, key operational processes (such as accounts payable, payroll, and travel and expense) and critical client systems, are provided by third parties.  The actions of our third-party vendors are beyond our control.  If our vendors fail to perform as we expect, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance, our operations and reputation could suffer.  Depending on the function involved, vendor failure or error may lead to increased costs, business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, effects on financial reporting, loss of customers, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation.  In addition, although we have instituted a Vendor Code of Conduct, we may be subject to the consequences of fraud, bribery, or misconduct by employees of our vendors, which can result in significant financial or reputational harm.. We may be unable to achieve or maintain cost savings and other benefits from our restructuring activities.. We continue to engage in business optimization initiatives that focus on maximizing the efficiency and effectiveness of the cost structure of each of the Company's business units.  The action is designed to improve client service levels across each of the business units while enhancing the Company's profitability and incremental margins.  We may not be able to achieve these improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations.  We also may incur greater costs than currently anticipated to achieve these savings and we may not be able to maintain these cost savings and other benefits in the future.. We may not realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions.. Integrating acquired companies involves complex operational and personnel related challenges, including:. • the possible defection of a significant number of employees and independent sales agents;. • the disruption of our respective ongoing businesses;. • possible inconsistencies in policies and procedures, as well as business and IT controls;. • the failure to maintain important business relationships and contracts;. • unanticipated costs of terminating or relocating facilities and operations;. • unanticipated expenses related to the integration;. 36. Table of Contents. • increased amortization of intangibles; and. • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses.. A prolonged diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of any business acquisition could prevent us from realizing the anticipated cost savings and revenue growth from our acquisitions.. We may not have the ability to complete future acquisitions.. At varying times, we have pursued an active acquisition strategy as a means of strengthening our geographic footprint, and expanding our scope of operations.  We have also focused on integrating acquisitions into our operations to achieve economies of scale.  The success of our future acquisition strategy will continue to depend upon our ability to fund such acquisitions given our total outstanding indebtedness, find suitable acquisition candidates on favorable terms and for target companies to find our acquisition proposals more favorable than those made by other competitors.. Potential reform of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae or a reduction in U.S. government support for the housing market could have a material impact on our operations.. Numerous pieces of legislation seeking various types of changes for government sponsored entities or GSEs have been introduced in Congress to reform the U.S. housing finance market including, among other things, changes designed to reduce government support for housing finance and the winding down of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae over a period of years.  Legislation, if enacted, or additional regulation which curtails Freddie Mac and/or Fannie Mae's activities and/or results in the wind down of these entities could increase mortgage costs and could result in more stringent underwriting guidelines imposed by lenders or cause other disruptions in the mortgage industry, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the housing market in general and our operations in particular.. Changes in accounting standards, subjective assumptions and estimates used by management related to complex accounting matters could have an adverse effect on results of operations.. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidance and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters, such as revenue recognition, lease accounting, stock-based compensation, asset impairments, valuation reserves, income taxes and fair value accounting, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments made by management.  Changes in these rules or their interpretations or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments made by management could significantly change our reported results.. Our international operations are subject to risks not generally experienced by our U.S. operations.. Our relocation services business operates worldwide, and to a lesser extent, our real estate franchise services segment has international franchisees and master franchisees.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, revenues from these operations represented approximately 2% of our total revenues.  Our international operations are subject to risks not generally experienced by our U.S. operations.  The risks involved in our international operations and relationships that could result in losses against which we are not insured and therefore affect our profitability include:. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • exposure to local economic conditions and local laws and regulations, including those relating to our employees;. • potential adverse changes in the political stability of foreign countries or in their diplomatic relations with the U.S.;. • restrictions on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings;. • government policies against businesses owned by foreigners;. • onerous employment laws;. • diminished ability to legally enforce our contractual rights and use of our trademarks in foreign countries;. • difficulties in registering, protecting or preserving trade names and trademarks in foreign countries;. • difficulties in complying with franchise disclosure and registration requirements in foreign countries;. • restrictions on the ability to obtain or retain licenses required for operations;. • withholding and other taxes on third party cross-border transactions as well as remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. 37. Table of Contents. • onerous requirements, subject to broad interpretation, for indirect taxes and income taxes that can result in audits with potentially significant financial outcomes;. • changes in foreign taxation structures;. • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or similar laws of other countries; and. • regional and country specific data protection and privacy laws including, effective May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation.. In addition, activities of franchisees and master franchisees outside of the U.S. are more difficult and more expensive to monitor and improper activities may be more difficult to detect.. Loss or attrition among our senior executives or other key employees and our inability to develop our existing workforce and to recruit top talent could adversely affect our financial performance.. Our success is largely dependent on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key employees, our ability to develop the skills and talent of our workforce and our ability to recruit, retain and motivate top talent.  Talent management has been and continues to be a strategic priority and our ability to recruit and retain our executive officers and key employees, including those with significant experience in the residential real estate market, is generally subject to numerous factors, including the compensation and benefits we pay.  If we are unable to internally develop or hire skilled executives and other critical positions or if we encounter challenges associated with change management, our ability to continue to execute or evolve our strategy may be impaired and our business may be adversely affected.. Severe weather events or natural disasters may disrupt our business and have an unfavorable impact on homesale activity.. The occurrence of a severe weather event or natural disaster can reduce home inventory levels and negatively impact the demand for homes in affected areas, which can delay the closing of homesale transactions and have an unfavorable impact on homesale transaction volume, relocation transactions, title closing units and broker-to-broker referral fees.  In addition, we could incur damage, which may be significant, to our office locations as a result of severe weather events or natural disasters and our insurance may not be adequate to cover such losses.  Certain areas in which our businesses operate, such as California and Florida, are particularly subject to severe weather events and natural disasters.. We may incur substantial and unexpected liabilities arising out of our pension plan.. We have a defined benefit pension plan for which participation was frozen as of July 1, 1997; however, the plan is subject to minimum funding requirements.  Although the Company to date has met its minimum funding requirements, the pension plan represents a liability on our balance sheet and will continue to require cash contributions from us, which may increase beyond our expectations in future years based on changing market conditions.  In addition, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our pension plan and cause volatility in the future funding requirements of the plan.. Our ability to use our net operating losses (\"NOLs\") and other tax attributes may be limited.. Our ability to utilize NOLs and other tax attributes could be limited by the \"ownership change\" we underwent within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), as a result of the sale of our common stock in our initial public offering and the related transactions.  An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point increase in equity ownership by 5% stockholders in any three-year period.  Pursuant to rules under Section 382 of the Code and a published Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") notice, a company's \"net unrealized built-in gain\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code may reduce the limitation on such company's ability to utilize NOLs resulting from an ownership change.  Although there can be no assurance in this regard, we believe that the limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs resulting from our ownership change should be significantly reduced as a result of our net unrealized built-in gain.  Even assuming we are able to use our unrealized built-in gain, the cash tax benefit from our NOLs is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient taxable income.  Although we believe that we will be able to generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our NOLs, we may be unable to earn enough taxable income prior to the expiration of our NOLs.. We are responsible for certain of Cendant's contingent and other corporate liabilities.. Although we have resolved various Cendant contingent and other corporate liabilities and have established reserves for most of the remaining unresolved claims of which we have knowledge, adverse outcomes from the unresolved Cendant. 38. Table of Contents. liabilities for which Realogy Group has assumed partial liability under the Separation and Distribution Agreement could be material with respect to our earnings or cash flows in any given reporting period.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our significant indebtedness and interest obligations could prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments and could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, react to changes in the economy or our industry, or incur additional borrowings under our existing facilities.. We are significantly encumbered by our debt obligations.  As of December 31, 2017, our total debt, excluding our securitization obligations, was $3,348 million (without giving effect to outstanding letters of credit).  Our liquidity position has been, and is expected to continue to be, negatively impacted by the substantial interest expense on our debt obligations.. Our leverage could have important consequences, including the following:. • it causes a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of interest and required amortization on our indebtedness and not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, technology, share repurchases, dividends and future business opportunities or principal repayment;. • it could cause us to be unable to comply with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility;. • it could cause us to be unable to meet our debt service requirements under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, the Term Loan A Facility or the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes or meet our other financial obligations;. • it may limit our ability to incur additional borrowings under our existing facilities or securitizations, to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes, or to refinance our indebtedness;. • it exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility, are at variable rates of interest;. • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. • it may cause a downgrade of our debt and long-term corporate ratings;. • it may limit our ability to repurchase shares;. • it may limit our ability to attract acquisition candidates or to complete future acquisitions;. • it may cause us to be more vulnerable to periods of negative or slow growth in the general economy or in our business, or may cause us to be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth; and. • it may limit our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. An event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, the Term Loan A Facility or the indentures governing our other material indebtedness would adversely affect our operations and our ability to satisfy obligations under our indebtedness.. The Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility contain restrictive covenants, including a requirement that we maintain a specified senior secured leverage ratio, which is defined as the ratio of our total senior secured debt (net of unrestricted cash and permitted investments) to trailing four quarter EBITDA calculated on a Pro Forma Basis, as those terms are defined in the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facility.  If we are unable to comply with the senior secured leverage ratio covenant or other restrictive covenants and we fail to remedy or avoid a default as permitted under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility, there would be an \"event of default\" under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility.. Other events of default include, without limitation, nonpayment of principal or interest, material misrepresentations, insolvency, bankruptcy, certain material judgments, change of control, and cross-events of default on material indebtedness as well as failure to obtain an unqualified audit opinion by 90 days after the end of any fiscal year.  Upon the occurrence of any event of default under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility, the lenders:. • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us;. • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable;. 39. Table of Contents. • could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or. • could prevent us from making payments on the Unsecured Notes, any of which could result in an event of default under the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes or our Apple Ridge Funding LLC securitization program.. If we were unable to repay the amounts outstanding under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility, the lenders and holders of such debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to secure the Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility.  We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral to secure such indebtedness.  If the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facility or Term Loan A Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility and our other indebtedness or be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness.  In the future, we may need to seek new financing or explore the possibility of amending the terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility, and we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or terms that are acceptable to us, if at all.. In addition, if an event of default is continuing under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, Term Loan A Facility, the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes or our other material indebtedness, such event could cause a termination of our ability to obtain future advances under, and amortization of, our Apple Ridge Funding LLC securitization program.. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. At December 31, 2017, $1,886 million of our borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facility was at variable rates of interest thereby exposing us to interest rate risk.  If interest rates increase from their current historically low rates, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease.  Although we have entered into interest rate swaps involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments to reduce interest rate volatility for a significant portion of our variable rate borrowings, such interest rate swaps do not eliminate interest rate volatility for all of our variable rate indebtedness at December 31, 2017.. Restrictive covenants under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, Term Loan A Facility, Unsecured Letter of Credit Facility and indentures may limit the manner in which we operate.. Our Senior Secured Credit Facility, Term Loan A Facility, Unsecured Letter of Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Unsecured Notes contain, and any future indebtedness we may incur may contain, various negative covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock;. <U+25AA> pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders;. <U+25AA> repurchase or redeem capital stock;. <U+25AA> make investments or acquisitions;. <U+25AA> incur restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us;. <U+25AA> enter into transactions with affiliates;. <U+25AA> create liens;. <U+25AA> merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;. <U+25AA> transfer or sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; and. <U+25AA> prepay, redeem or repurchase certain indebtedness.. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities, repurchase shares of our common stock or finance future operations or capital needs.. We may be unable to continue to securitize certain of our relocation assets, which may adversely impact our liquidity.. At December 31, 2017, $194 million of securitization obligations were outstanding through special purpose entities monetizing certain assets of our relocation services business under two lending facilities.  We have provided a performance guaranty which guarantees the obligations of our Cartus subsidiary and its subsidiaries, as originator and servicer under the Apple Ridge securitization program.  The securitization markets have experienced, and may again experience, significant disruptions which may have the effect of increasing our cost of funding or reducing our access to these markets in the future.. 40. Table of Contents. In addition, the Apple Ridge securitization facility contains terms which if triggered may result in a termination or limitation of new or existing funding under the facility and/or may result in a requirement that all collections on the assets be used to pay down the amounts outstanding under such facility.  The triggering events include but are not limited to:  (1) those tied to the age and quality of the underlying assets; (2) a change of control; (3) a breach of our senior secured leverage ratio covenant under our Senior Secured Credit Facility if uncured; and (4) the acceleration of indebtedness under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, unsecured notes or other material indebtedness.  The occurrence of a trigger event under the Apple Ridge securitization facility could restrict our ability to access new or existing funding under this facility or result in termination of the facility.  If securitization financing is not available to us for any reason, we could be required to borrow under the Revolving Credit Facility, which would adversely impact our liquidity, or we may be required to find additional sources of funding which may be on less favorable terms or may not be available at all.. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price for our common stock could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, many of which are outside our control, including those described above and the following:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including but not limited to shares we may issue from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions or investments;. • housing and mortgage finance markets;. • the incurrence of additional indebtedness or other adverse changes relating to our debt;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • future announcements concerning our business or our competitors' businesses;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by sell-side securities analysts who track our common stock or ratings changes or commentary by rating agencies on our debt;. • changes in, or the elimination of, our stock repurchase program or cash dividend;. • the timing and amount of share repurchases, if any;. • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • actual or potential changes in laws, regulations and regulatory interpretations, including as a result of the 2017 Tax Act;. • changes in interest rates;. • changes in demographics relating to housing such as household formation;. • changing consumer attitudes concerning home ownership;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • arrival and departure of key personnel;. • adverse resolution of new or pending litigation, arbitration or regulatory proceedings against us; and. • changes in general market, economic and political conditions in the United States and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war and responses to such events.. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low.. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to litigation, including class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management.. 41. Table of Contents. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to pay dividends or purchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program or that our capital allocation strategy will enhance stockholder value.. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient cash or surplus under Delaware law to be able to continue to pay dividends or purchase shares of our common stock under our stock repurchase program.  Certain of our debt instruments contain covenants that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and repurchase shares of our common stock.  We are permitted under the terms of our debt instruments to incur additional indebtedness, which may restrict or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock.  Agreements governing any future indebtedness, in addition to those governing our current indebtedness, may not permit us to pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase shares of our common stock.  Because Realogy Holdings is a holding company and has no direct operations, we will only be able to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock from our available cash on hand and any funds we receive from our subsidiaries.  Our title insurance underwriter is subject to regulations that limit its ability to pay dividends or make loans or advances to us, principally to protect policyholders.  Under Delaware law, dividends may be payable only out of surplus, which is our assets minus our liabilities and our capital or, if we have no surplus, out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.  As a result, we may not pay dividends according to our policy or at all if, among other things, we do not have sufficient cash to pay the intended dividends, our financial performance does not achieve expected results or the terms of our indebtedness prohibit it.. Our Board may also decrease or suspend the payment of dividends or our stock repurchase program if the Board deems such action to be in our best interests or those of our stockholders.  A reduction or elimination of our cash dividend or stock repurchase program could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate in order to realize a gain on an investment in Realogy.  This appreciation may not occur and our stock may in fact depreciate in value.. In addition, our stock repurchase program and any future dividends will utilize a portion of our cash, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions.  Moreover, stock repurchases may not enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock.  There can be no assurance that our capital allocation strategy, including our cash dividend and stock repurchase program, will enhance short or long-term stockholder value.. Delaware law and our organizational documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders.  In addition, provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may make it more difficult for, or prevent a third party from, acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Among other things, these provisions:. • do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;. • delegate the sole power to a majority of the Board of Directors to fix the number of directors;. • provide the power to our Board of Directors to fill any vacancy on our Board of Directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise;. • authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;. • eliminate the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. The foregoing factors could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our common stock which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock and our investors' ability to realize any potential change-in-control premium.. 42. Table of Contents. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue one or more series of preferred stock.  Our Board of Directors will have the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our stockholders.  Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock.  The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discouraging bids for our common stock at a premium to the market price, and materially and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others.. Stockholder activism at public companies has been rising and we may be subject to actions or requests - either formal or informal - from activist stockholders or others.  Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, may not align with our business strategies and could divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies.  Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of stockholder activism may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of the business or other instability and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, independent sales agents and business partners and may affect our relationships with vendors, customers and other third parties.  In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause significant fluctuations of our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business."
