[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations.  Please see page 4 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of some of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. All references and risks related to the launch, commercialization or sale of injectable meloxicam or any of our other product candidates are predicated on such product candidates receiving the requisite marketing and regulatory approval in the United States and applicable foreign jurisdictions.. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements. We have incurred net losses since inception.  We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may never achieve or maintain profitability.. To date, we have focused primarily on developing our proprietary product candidates.  We have incurred significant pre-tax losses in each year since our inception in November 2007, including pre-tax losses of approximately $52.0 million and $31.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $111.3 million.. We have financed our operations through the sale of debt and equity securities, term loans made under our previous and existing credit facilities, including our current $100.0 million credit facility with Athyrium Opportunities III Acquisition LP, or Athyrium, and revenue generated by our CDMO division.  We have used revenue generated by our CDMO division primarily to fund the operations of our CDMO division, to make payments under our previous credit facility and to partially fund our research and development and pre-commercialization activities.  We believe that our CDMO division revenue will continue to contribute cash for general corporate purposes that may, to some extent, reduce the amount of external capital needed to fund development operations.. The size of our future net losses and our ability to achieve profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of future expenditures and our ability to successfully commercialize IV meloxicam, if approved, and our other current or future product candidates.  To date, none of. 28. our product candidates have been commercialized, and revenues generated by our CDMO division do not cover our costs and may never be sufficient to achieve profitability.  Our ability to generate future revenues from product sales depends heavily on our success in:. •  obtaining regulatory approval for IV meloxicam for the management of moderate to severe pain;. •  launching and commercializing IV meloxicam;. •  developing a sufficient commercial organization capable of sales, marketing and distribution for IV meloxicam;. •  establishing a commercially viable price for IV meloxicam;. •  manufacturing commercial quantities of IV meloxicam at acceptable cost levels;. •  effectively managing the levels of production, distribution and delivery of IV meloxicam through our supply chain and adequately adjusting such production and delivery to correspond to market demand;. •  obtaining coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-parties, including government payers;. •  obtaining and maintaining patent protection for IV meloxicam and our product candidates;. •  completing the clinical development of our other product candidates; and. •  our ability to generate increased revenue from our CDMO division.. We expect to continue to incur substantial and increased expenses as we continue our clinical, launch preparation and commercialization activities for IV meloxicam, and expand our research and development activities and advance our clinical programs for our other product candidates.  Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development and commercialization, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses, and when, or if, we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability.. If IV meloxicam or our other product candidates are not successfully developed or commercialized, or if revenues are insufficient following marketing approval, we will not achieve profitability and our business may fail.  Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approval for IV meloxicam in the United States, our revenues are also dependent upon the size of the markets outside of the United States, as well as our ability to obtain market approval and achieve commercial success outside of the United States on our own or with a collaboration partner.. As a result of the foregoing, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing losses from operations for the foreseeable future.  Even if we are able to generate revenues from the sale of our products, we may not become profitable and may need to obtain additional funding to continue operations.. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional financing, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development and related commercialization programs or to significantly scale back or discontinue our manufacturing business.. Developing and commercializing pharmaceutical products, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials and ramping up commercial manufacturing activities, is expensive.  We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing clinical and pre-commercialization activities, particularly as we advance our clinical programs and scale up our commercialization activities.  If we obtain regulatory approval for IV meloxicam, we anticipate incurring significant costs of sales and general and commercialization expenses in connection with its launch and commercialization.  In addition, maintaining our cGMP pharmaceutical manufacturing facility is expensive.  While our CDMO division generates revenue and profit, that revenue and profit alone is not sufficient to support the development and commercialization of our product candidates.  We will need to raise additional funds to support our future product development operations.  In addition, we may also need to obtain additional financing if the capital requirements for operating and maintaining our manufacturing facility exceed our current expectations.  Such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. We expect our existing cash and cash equivalents and other expected financing sources will be sufficient to fund our operations over the next 12 months.  If IV meloxicam is approved by the FDA, we will need to raise additional funding to satisfy the $45 million milestone payment due to Alkermes upon FDA approval of IV meloxicam, and to implement our commercial launch plans for IV meloxicam. In addition, changing circumstances beyond our control may cause us to consume capital more rapidly than we currently anticipate.  For example, our pre-commercialization and commercialization activities for IV meloxicam may lead to additional,. 29. unexpected costs related to the commercial manufacture of IV meloxicam or the build out of our commercial sales organization.  We may also encounter technical, enrollment or other difficulties that could increase our development costs more than we expect for our other product candidates.  Additional funding will be needed to develop our other product candidates.. Securing additional financing may divert our management from our day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates or to develop and maintain customer relationships.  In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.  If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may be required to:. •  significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of IV meloxicam or curtail the development programs for our other product candidates;. •  seek collaboration partners for the development or commercialization of our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable, on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available or for product candidates that we would otherwise plan to develop and commercialize on our own;. •  relinquish or license, on unfavorable terms, our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or. •  significantly scale back or discontinue our CDMO division.. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects.. We may sell additional equity or debt securities to fund our operations, which would result in dilution to our shareholders and may impose restrictions on our business.. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements.  On December 29, 2017, we entered into a Sales Agreement, or the Sales Agreement with Cowen and Company, LLC, or Cowen, pursuant to which we may sell from time to time, at our option, up to $40.0 million of shares of our common stock through Cowen, as our placement agent. On March 2, 2018, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement, or the Purchase Agreement, with Aspire Capital Fund, LLC, or Aspire Capital, which provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in the Purchase Agreement, Aspire Capital is committed to purchase, at our sole election, up to an aggregate of $20.0 million of our shares of common stock over the approximately 30-month term of the Purchase Agreement. To the extent that we raise additional capital through sales of common stock under the Sales Agreement or the Purchase Agreement, or the sale of equity or convertible debt securities by any other means, existing ownership interests will be diluted, and the terms of such financings may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of existing shareholders.  Debt financings may be coupled with an equity component, such as warrants to purchase shares, which could also result in dilution of our existing shareholders' ownership.  If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships and alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly.. Our operating results may be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations.  Our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:. •  the timing and amount of development and net sales milestones, royalties and earn-out payments payable by us under our existing license agreements and acquisition agreements;. •  fluctuations in the revenues generated by our CDMO division, including the loss of a major customer or product;. •  any delays in regulatory review and approval of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates in clinical development;. •  variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs;. •  the success of our clinical trials through all phases of clinical development;. •  any newly identified side effects of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates that could delay or prevent commercialization or cause an approved drug to be taken off the market;. 30. •  changes in the fair values of our warrants and contingent consideration liabilities;. •  any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved;. •  our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection;. •  the success of our commercial launch preparations activities;. •  our ability to establish an effective sales and marketing infrastructure;. •  our dependency on third parties to supply and manufacture our product candidates and delivery devices;. •  the level of market acceptance for IV meloxicam or any of our other product candidates, once approved, and underlying demand for that product and wholesalers' buying patterns;. •  the amount of sales and other revenues from IV meloxicam or any of our other product candidates, once approved, including the selling prices for such potential products and the availability of adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement;. •  competition from existing products or new products that may emerge;. •  regulatory developments affecting our product candidates, which are not limited to but could include the imposition of a REMS program as a condition of approval;. •  our execution of any additional collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; and. •  our acquisition or in-licensing of new products or product candidates.. Due to the various factors mentioned above, and others, the results of any prior quarterly period should not be relied upon as an indication of our future operating performance.  If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially.  Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially.. We have incurred significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an outstanding balance under the credit agreement of $60.0 million.  Upon entry into the credit agreement with Athyrium, we drew upon an initial $60.0 million term loan and have the ability to draw upon two additional tranches of terms loans, each in the aggregate original principal amount of $20.0 million, subject to certain timing and milestone restrictions.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our shareholders.  For example, it:. •  increases our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions;. •  limits our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate;. •  makes us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our credit agreement with Athyrium are at variable rates;. •  limits our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital or other purposes; and. •  places us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness.. Any of the above listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Our credit agreement with Athyrium also contains certain financial and other covenants, including a minimum liquidity requirement and a trailing four quarter revenue requirement, maximum leverage ratios and includes limitations on, among other things, additional indebtedness, paying dividends in certain circumstances, acquisitions and certain investments.  The credit agreement provides for certain mandatory prepayment events, including with respect to the proceeds of asset sales, extraordinary receipts, debt issuances and other specified events, based on the terms of the credit agreement with Athyrium.  Any failure to comply with the terms, covenants. 31. and conditions of the credit agreement may result in an event of default under such agreement, may limit our ability to draw upon additional tranches of term loans, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Act, which significantly changes the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The Tax Act contains, among other things, significant changes to corporate taxation, including a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Any federal net operating loss carryovers created in 2018 and thereafter will be carried forward indefinitely. As a result of the Tax Act, we have incurred a one-time net expense of $7.9 million related to the remeasurement of our deferred tax balances to the new statutory rate.  We continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business.   Any estimates we have made or will make regarding the impact of the Tax Act reflect certain assumptions based upon our current interpretation and analysis to date of the law. These assumptions may be subject to further refinement due to any future changes in interpretations or additional guidance that may be issued as a result of the Tax Act.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and ability to achieve profitability.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and Ireland. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors including changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws.. We regularly assess these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision, which is subject to discretion.  If our assessments are incorrect, it could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.  There can be no assurance that income tax laws and administrative policies with respect to the income tax consequences generally applicable to us or to our subsidiaries will not be changed in a manner which adversely affects our shareholders. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and ability to achieve profitability.. Risks Related to Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval. We are substantially dependent on the success of our lead product candidate IV meloxicam, which is in a later stage of development than our other product candidates.  To the extent regulatory approval of IV meloxicam is delayed or not granted, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline.. We currently have no product candidates approved for sale, and we may never be able to develop marketable products.  We are focusing a significant portion of our activities and resources on our lead product candidate, IV meloxicam, and we believe our prospects are highly dependent on, and a significant portion of the value of our company relates to, our ability to successfully obtain regulatory approval for, and successfully commercialize, IV meloxicam.  The regulatory approval of IV meloxicam is subject to many risks, including the risks discussed in other risk factors, and IV meloxicam may not receive marketing approval from any regulatory agency.  If the results or timing of regulatory filings, the regulatory process, regulatory developments, clinical trials or preclinical studies, or other activities, actions or decisions related to IV meloxicam do not meet our or others' expectations, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly.. We submitted an NDA for IV meloxicam for the management of moderate to severe pain in July 2017. Our NDA was subsequently accepted for filing and review by the FDA in September 2017 and a PDUFA date for was set for May 26, 2018.  Although we have discussed our clinical development plans with the FDA, the agency may ultimately determine that our Phase III clinical trials or other aspects of our NDA are not sufficient for regulatory approval and may issue a complete response letter instead of approval. If we receive a complete response letter, the FDA would outline deficiencies in our NDA and may request the submission of additional information, including CMC, preclinical and clinical data.  The FDA is also in the process of auditing the third-party manufacturing facilities that we rely on for the manufacture of IV meloxicam for pre-approval inspections and may audit one or more of our clinical trial sites, and if any site or facility reveals anomalies or does not pass inspection, including, but not limited to, any issues related to our process validation batches, the FDA could delay or preclude approval of our NDA.  In either case, our commercialization of IV meloxicam may be delayed and we may incur additional costs and be required to devote additional resources to address the FDA's concerns.  If the FDA requires us to conduct additional clinical trials or pre-clinical studies or requires any of our manufacturers to. 32. improve or change their practices, our timeline for commercialization of IV meloxicam will be delayed and we will incur additional costs.  Further, there can be no assurance that we will complete the other clinical and non-clinical studies or address manufacturing issues in a manner that is acceptable to the FDA.  In addition, we are conducting Phase IIIb clinical trials for IV meloxicam in colorectal surgery patients and orthopedic surgery patients, and those clinical trials could fail or produce results that are adverse or inconclusive, which could have a negative impact on regulatory approval.. Any delay or setback in the development or regulatory approval of IV meloxicam could adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline.  Should our recent Phase III clinical development program be insufficient to support regulatory approval, we may be forced to rely on our other product candidates, which are at an earlier development stage and will require additional time and resources to obtain regulatory approval and proceed with commercialization.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain approval for IV meloxicam from the FDA.. Even if the FDA grants approval of IV meloxicam, the terms of the approval may limit its commercial potential.. Even if IV meloxicam were to successfully obtain approval from the FDA, any such approval might significantly limit the approved indications for use, including limiting its use to a more limited patient populations, require that precautions, contraindications or warnings be included on the product labeling, including black box warnings, require expensive and time-consuming post-approval clinical trials, REMS or surveillance as conditions of approval, or, through product labeling limit the claims that we may make, any of which may impede the successful commercialization of IV meloxicam.  For example, the FDA may conclude that our Phase III clinical trials or other aspects of our NDA are not sufficient to support a product label with claims covering management of moderate to severe pain or 24 hour dosing intervals.  If the approval of IV meloxicam contains significant limitations, our ability to market to our full target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of IV meloxicam will be harmed and we may have to discontinue the commercialization of IV meloxicam or limit our sales and marketing efforts, which in turn could limit our ability to achieve profitability.. Our development and commercialization strategy for IV meloxicam depends, in part, on published scientific literature and the FDA's prior findings regarding the safety and efficacy of approved products containing meloxicam based on data not developed by us, but upon which the FDA may rely in reviewing our NDA.. Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from investigations that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted.  The FDA interprets Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, for purposes of approving an NDA, to permit the applicant to rely, in part, upon published literature or the FDA's previous findings of safety and efficacy for an already-approved reference product.  The FDA may also require companies to perform additional clinical trials or measurements to support any deviation from the reference product.  The FDA may then approve the new product candidate for all or some of the label indications for which the reference product has been approved, as well as for any new indication sought by the Section 505(b)(2) applicant.  The label, however, may require all or some of the limitations, contraindications, warnings or precautions included in the reference product's label, including a black box warning, or may require additional limitations, contraindications, warnings or precautions.  Our NDA for IV meloxicam was submitted under Section 505(b)(2) and as such the NDA relies, in part, on the FDA's previous findings of safety and efficacy from investigations for approved product containing meloxicam and published scientific literature for which we have not received a right of reference.  Even though we may be able to take advantage of Section 505(b)(2) to support potential U.S. approval for IV meloxicam, the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials or measurements to support approval.  In addition, notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to Section 505(b)(2), if the FDA changes its interpretation of Section 505(b)(2), or if the FDA's interpretation is successfully challenged in court, this could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving our NDA for IV meloxicam or any other Section 505(b)(2) NDAs that we submit.  Such a result could require us to conduct additional testing and costly clinical trials, which could substantially delay or prevent the approval and launch of IV meloxicam.. We will need to obtain approval for any proposed names for IV meloxicam, and any delay associated with doing so could delay commercialization of IV meloxicam, and adversely impact our business.. The proprietary name we propose to use with IV meloxicam in the United States must be reviewed and accepted by the FDA, regardless of whether we have registered it, or applied to register it, as a trademark. The FDA reviews any proposed product name, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. The FDA may also object to a product name if it believes the name inappropriately implies medical claims or contributes to an overstatement of efficacy. Although the FDA has conditionally accepted our proposed proprietary product name for IV meloxicam, it may still object to the proposed proprietary product name at the time of any NDA approval, which would require us to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable proprietary product name that would qualify under applicable laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA.. 33. IV meloxicam and our other product candidates may cause adverse events or other safety concerns or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit the scope of any approved label or market acceptance.. AEs caused by IV meloxicam and our other product candidates could cause us, other reviewing entities, clinical study sites or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval.  Clinical studies conducted with IV meloxicam and our other product candidates have generated some AEs, and in some cases SAEs, as those terms are defined by the FDA in its regulations, and AEs or SAEs could be generated during the course of our on-going Phase IIIb clinical trials for IV meloxicam.  Our ability to obtain regulatory approval for IV meloxicam and our other product candidates may be adversely impacted by these AEs, SAEs or other safety concerns.  Further, if our products cause serious or unexpected side effects after receiving market approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or impose restrictions on its distribution in a form of a modified REMS;. •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications;. •  we may be required to change the way the product is administered or conduct additional clinical studies;. •  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and/or. •  our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidates.. IV meloxicam or any of our other product candidates, if approved, may require REMS, which may significantly increase our costs.. IV meloxicam or any of our other product candidates, if approved, may require REMS.  The REMS may include requirements for special labeling or medication guides for patients, special communication plans to health care professionals and restrictions on distribution and use.  We cannot predict the specific scope or magnitude of REMS that may be required as part of the FDA's approval of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates.  Depending on the extent of the REMS requirements, our costs to commercialize IV meloxicam or our other product candidates may increase significantly and distribution restrictions could limit sales.  Similar obstacles may arise in countries outside of the United States.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will still face extensive regulatory requirements and our products may face future regulatory difficulties.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval in the United States or in other countries, the FDA and state regulatory authorities and the equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of our product candidates, or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or post-marketing surveillance.  Any approved products will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and reporting of safety and other post-marketing information.  The holder of an approved NDA is obligated to monitor and report AEs and any failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA.  The holder of an approved NDA must also submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process.  Advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA rules and are subject to FDA review, in addition to other potentially applicable federal and state laws.  The applicable regulations in countries outside the United States grant similar powers to the competent authorities and impose similar obligations on companies.. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to payment of substantial user fees and continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, including equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries, for compliance with cGMP regulations and adherence to commitments made in the NDA or the application for marketing authorization.  If we, or a regulatory authority, discover previously unknown problems with a product, such as AEs of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with a facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions relative to that product or the manufacturing facility, including requiring recall or withdrawal of the product from the market, suspension of manufacturing, or other FDA action or other action by the equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries.. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements following approval of any of our product candidates, a regulatory authority may:. •  issue a warning letter asserting that we are in violation of the law;. 34. •  seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;. •  suspend, modify or withdraw regulatory approval;. •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. •  refuse to approve a pending NDA or supplements to an NDA submitted by us;. •  seize our product candidate; and/or. •  refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts.. Even if we obtain FDA approval for IV meloxicam or our other product candidates in the United States, we may never obtain approval for or commercialize our products outside of the United States, which would limit our ability to realize their full market potential.. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding quality, safety and efficacy.  Clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries, and regulatory approval in one country does not mean that regulatory approval will be obtained in any other country.  Approval processes vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods.  Seeking foreign regulatory approval could result in difficulties and costs for us and require additional non-clinical studies or clinical trials, which could be costly and time consuming.  Regulatory requirements can vary widely from country to country and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in those countries.  While our management has experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals, we do not have any product candidates approved for sale in any jurisdiction, including international markets, and we, as a company, do not have experience in obtaining regulatory approval in international markets.  If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements in international markets or to obtain and maintain required approvals, or if regulatory approval in international markets is delayed, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our products will be adversely affected.. For example, in the European Union, similar to the United States regulation scheme, both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual European Union member states both before and after grant of the manufacturing and Marketing Authorizations.  This includes control of compliance with cGMP rules, which govern quality control of the manufacturing process and require documentation policies and procedures.  We and our third-party manufacturers are required to ensure that all of our processes, methods, and equipment are compliant with cGMP.  Failure by us or by any of our third-party partners, including suppliers, manufacturers, and distributors to comply with European Union laws and the related national laws of individual European Union member states governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing approval, marketing authorization of medicinal products, both before and after grant of marketing authorization, and marketing of such products following grant of authorization may result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties.  These penalties could include delays in or refusal to authorize the conduct of clinical trials or to grant Marketing Authorization, product withdrawals and recalls, product seizures, suspension, or variation of the marketing authorization, total or partial suspension of production, distribution, manufacturing, or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions, suspension of licenses, fines, and criminal penalties.. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA are lengthy, time consuming and inherently unpredictable, and if we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, our business will be substantially harmed.. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities.  In addition, approval policies, regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate's clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions.  We have not obtained regulatory approval for any product candidate, and it is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any product candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain regulatory approval.. Our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following:. •  the FDA may not accept our NDA filing;. •  the FDA may disagree with the design, scope or implementation of our clinical trials;. 35. •  we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that a product candidate is safe and effective for its proposed indication;. •  we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;. •  the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. •  the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA;. •  the FDA may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and. •  the approval policies or regulations of the FDA may change significantly in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. With the exception of our recent NDA submission for IV meloxicam, we have not previously submitted an NDA or any similar drug approval filing to the FDA or any comparable foreign authority for any product candidate, and we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will receive regulatory approval.  If we do not receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to continue our operations.  Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approval to market one of our product candidates, our revenue will be dependent, to a significant extent, upon the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval.  If the markets for patients or indications that we are targeting are not as significant as we estimate, we may not generate significant revenue from sales of such products, if approved.. Clinical development is a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results.  Clinical failure can occur at any stage of clinical development.. Clinical trials are expensive, can take many years to complete and have highly uncertain outcomes.  Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process as a result of inadequate study design, inadequate performance of a drug, inadequate adherence by patients or investigators to clinical trial protocols, or other factors.  New drugs in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through earlier clinical trials.  Some of our pipeline product candidates are in early stages of development, and positive preclinical and Phase I clinical trials for those product candidates may not necessarily be predictive of the results of later stage clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials as a result of a lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, despite promising results in earlier trials.  Our clinical trials may not be successful or may be more expensive or time-consuming than we currently expect.  If clinical trials for any of our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety or efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or the equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries, the FDA or the equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries will not approve that drug and we would not be able to commercialize it, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. Delays in clinical trials are common and have many causes, and any delay could result in increased costs to us and jeopardize or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commence product sales.. We may experience delays in clinical trials of our product candidates or the time required to complete clinical trials for our product candidates may be longer than anticipated.  Our planned clinical trials may not begin on time, have an effective design, enroll a sufficient number of patients, or be completed on schedule, if at all.  Our clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to:. •  inability to raise funding necessary to initiate or continue a trial;. •  delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial;. •  delays in reaching agreement with the FDA or the equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries on final trial design or the scope of the development program;. •  imposition of a clinical hold following an inspection of our clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or the equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries;. •  delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites;. 36. •  delays in obtaining required IRB approval at each site;. •  delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial;. •  delays in having subjects complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. •  clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment;. •  time required to add new clinical sites; or. •  delays by our contract manufacturers to produce and deliver a sufficient supply of clinical trial materials.. For example, the FDA has imposed a clinical hold on two of our early-stage product candidates, RP1000 and the reversal agent. We currently are scheduled to meet with the FDA regarding the process for resolving the holds, but we will be unable to proceed with clinical development on these product candidates until clinical hold is resolved.  In addition, we initially studied Dex-IN for the treatment of post-operative pain. Based on clinical trial results and feedback from the FDA, we are exploring Dex-IN in peri-procedural pain.  However, we cannot guarantee whether the FDA will accept a development path that leads to this indication.  If we are unable to resolve these issues with the FDA, or if clinical trials for any of our other product candidates are delayed for any of the above reasons or other reasons, our development costs may increase, our approval process could be delayed and our ability to commercialize our product candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. We have no history of commercializing drugs, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance or evaluate our business and prospects.. Although we commenced operations in 2007, our operations have been primarily limited to developing our technology and undertaking non-clinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates.  We have not yet obtained regulatory approval for any of our product candidates.  To date, we have not yet demonstrated our ability to successfully manufacture at commercial scale or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales, marketing and distribution activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, because our success is dependent on our ability to commercialize IV meloxicam, any predictions about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer history of successfully developing and commercializing drugs.. If we are unable to successfully commercialize IV meloxicam, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline.. Even if we receive regulatory approval from the FDA for the labeling that we request, our ability to successfully commercialize IV meloxicam will depend on many factors, including but not limited to:. •  the results of our ongoing Phase IIIb clinical trials for IV meloxicam;. •  our ability to consistently manufacture commercial quantities of IV meloxicam at reasonable cost and with sufficient speed to meet commercial demand, which may be higher or lower than expected demand on which our manufacturing forecasts have been based;. •  our ability to build a sales and marketing organization to market IV meloxicam;. •  our success in educating physicians, patients and caregivers about the benefits, administration and use of injectable meloxicam;. •  the availability, perceived advantages, relative cost, relative safety and relative efficacy of competing products;. •  our ability to successfully defend any challenges to our intellectual property relating to IV meloxicam;. •  our ability to set an acceptable price for IV meloxicam and to obtain adequate coverage and adequate reimbursement for IV meloxicam;. 37. •  our ability to contract with pharmaceutical wholesalers and specialty distributors on acceptable term;. •  the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns;. •  our effective use of promotional resources;. •  our success in obtaining formulary approvals; and. •  a continued acceptable profile for IV meloxicam.. Many of these matters are beyond our control and are subject to other risks described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section.  Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be able to successfully commercialize or generate revenue from IV meloxicam, even if we receive regulatory approval.  If we cannot do so, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock may decline.. The commercial success of IV meloxicam and our other product candidates will depend upon the acceptance of these products by the medical community, including physicians, patients, health care payers and hospital formularies.. Physicians may not prescribe IV meloxicam or any of our other product candidates if approved by the FDA, in which case we would not generate the revenues we anticipate.  The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  demonstration of clinical safety and efficacy;. •  the prevalence and severity of any AEs;. •  the clinical indications for which each of our product candidates are approved, including any potential additional restrictions placed on each product candidate in connection with its approval;. •  limitations or warnings contained in the FDA-approved label for each product candidate;. •  the results of our ongoing Phase IIIb clinical trials for IV meloxicam;. •  relative convenience and ease of administration of our product candidates;. •  prevalence of the condition for which each product candidate is approved;. •  availability of alternative treatments and perceived advantages of our product candidates over such alternative treatments;. •  the proposed sales price and cost-effectiveness of IV meloxicam and the availability of adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement;. •  the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators' sales and marketing strategies;. •  our ability to convince hospitals to include IV meloxicam and our other product candidates on their list of authorized products, referred to as formulary approval;. •  consolidation among healthcare providers, which increases the impact of the loss of any relationship;. •  our ability to obtain and maintain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement; and. •  the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of third-party coverage.. If IV meloxicam or any of our other product candidates are approved, but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients and health care payers, we may not generate sufficient revenue and we may not become or remain profitable.. 38. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell IV meloxicam or our other product candidates, we may be unable to generate any revenue for IV meloxicam or our other product candidates.. In anticipation of the approval and commercialization of IV meloxicam, we have begun to build out our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, and will need to continue to do so.  We may discover that the cost of continuing to establish, expand and maintain such sales force may exceed the cost-effectiveness of doing so.  In order to market any products that may be approved, we must continue to build our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services.  We intend to enter into strategic partnerships with third parties to commercialize our product candidates outside of the United States.  We will also consider the option to enter into strategic partnerships for certain product candidates in the United States.. To date, we have not entered into any strategic partnerships for any of our product candidates.  We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and these strategic partnerships can be intricate and time consuming to negotiate and document.  We may not be able to negotiate strategic partnerships on acceptable terms, or at all.  We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any strategic partnerships because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing strategic partnerships.. Our strategy for IV meloxicam is to develop a specialty sales force and/or collaborate with third parties to promote the product to healthcare professionals and third-party payers in the United States.  Our future collaboration partners, if any, may not dedicate sufficient resources to the commercialization of our product candidates or may otherwise fail in their commercialization due to factors beyond our control.  If we are unable to establish effective collaborations to enable the sale of our product candidates to healthcare professionals and in geographic regions, including the United States, that will not be covered by our own marketing and sales force, or if our potential future collaboration partners do not successfully commercialize our product candidates, our ability to generate revenues from product sales will be adversely affected.. If we are unable to negotiate a strategic partnership or obtain additional financial resources for our other product candidates, we may be forced to curtail the development of them, delay potential commercialization, reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities or undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense.  In addition, without a partnership, we will bear all the risk related to the development of these other product candidates.  If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities ourselves, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.  If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our other product candidates to market or generate product revenue.. We are subject to intense competition and, if we are unable to compete effectively, injectable meloxicam or any of our other product candidates may not reach their commercial potential.. The market for our product candidates is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances.  If our product candidates obtain FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future pharmaceuticals and drug delivery devices developed, manufactured and marketed by others.  We will compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations.. In the post-operative pain relief setting, we believe patients are prescribed injectable acetaminophen, NSAIDs, sodium channel blockers and opioids, depending on the severity of pain.  Specifically, acetaminophen, NSAIDs and sodium channel blockers, we believe, are prescribed for mild to moderate pain relief, whereas we believe opioids are prescribed for moderate to severe pain relief.  While we will compete with all of these compounds in the post-operative pain setting, we believe injectable meloxicam will be prescribed for moderate to severe pain, competing with opioids and other non-opioid pain treatments.  There are a number of pharmaceutical companies that currently market and/or manufacture therapeutics in the pain relief area, including Johnson & Johnson, Purdue Pharma, L.P., Mallinckrodt plc, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc., Depomed, Inc. and Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  Purdue is the primary competitor in the manufacture of opioid therapeutics.  Mallinckrodt commercializes an injectable formulation of acetaminophen.  Pacira commercializes an intraoperative formulation of bupivacaine, a sodium channel blocker.  Additionally, companies such as Adynxx, Inc., AcelRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Durect Corporation, Heron Therapeutics, Inc., Innocoll Holdings plc, Sandoz AG, Trevena, Inc. and Cara Therapeutics, Inc. are currently developing post-operative pain therapeutics that could compete with us in the future.. More established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their greater size, cash flows and institutional experience.  Compared to us, many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources.  As a result of these factors, our competitors may have an advantage in marketing their approved products and may obtain regulatory approval of their product candidates before we are able to, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates.  Our competitors may also develop drugs that are safer, more effective, more widely used and less expensive than ours,. 39. and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products.  These advantages could materially impact our ability to develop and commercialize IV meloxicam and our other product candidates successfully.. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors.  Smaller and early - stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies.  These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, management and commercial personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and subject registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and additional technologies become available in the pain management and relief space.  Finally, the development of different methods for the treatment of acute pain following surgery could render injectable meloxicam non-competitive or obsolete.  These and other risks may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or sustain profitable operations.. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations.. Some of the contract manufacturers of our lead product candidate injectable meloxicam manufacture and source raw materials outside the United States and we may, in the future, use manufacturers outside the United States for our other product candidates.  As such, we are subject to risks associated with such international manufacturing relationships, including:. •  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. •  problems related to markets with different cultural biases or political systems;. •  possible difficulties in enforcing agreements in multiple jurisdictions;. •  longer payment cycles and shipping lead-times;. •  increased risk relating to the transport of products internationally, including shipment delays relating to the import or export of our products or the delivery of our products by means of additional third-party vendors;. •  difficulties obtaining export or import licenses for our products;. •  compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws and regulations governing international trade;. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. •  changes to U.S. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the United States.; and. •  imposition of domestic and international customs and tariffs, withholding or other taxes, including any value added taxes.. Additionally, we are subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering import/export regulations. To the extent that we are unable to successfully defend against an audit or review, we may be required to pay assessments, penalties, and increased duties on products imported into the United States.. If third-party payers do not reimburse physicians or patients for IV meloxicam or our other product candidates or if reimbursement levels are, or pricing pressures cause the sales price to be, set too low for us to sell IV meloxicam or our other product candidates at a profit, our ability to successfully commercialize IV meloxicam or our other product candidates and our results of operations will be harmed.. Our ability to commercialize IV meloxicam or our other product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for such products, once approved, will be available in a timely manner from third-party payers, including governmental healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations. Government authorities and other third-party payers, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. Reimbursement decisions by particular third-party payers depend upon a number of factors, including each third-party payer's determination that use of a product is:. •  a covered benefit under its health plan;. 40. •  appropriate and medically necessary for the specific condition or disease;. •  cost effective; and. •  neither experimental nor investigational.. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for IV meloxicam or our other product candidates from government authorities or other third-party payers may be a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data, including expensive pharmacoeconomic studies beyond the data required to obtain marketing approval, for the use of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates to each government authority or other third-party payer. For example, if our ongoing Phase IIIb clinical trials for IV meloxicam in colorectal surgery patients and orthopedic surgery patients do not show improved outcomes relative to the current standard of care, obtaining payer coverage could be more difficult.  We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement.. Third-party payers may deny reimbursement for covered products if they determine that a medical product was used for an unapproved indication. Third-party payers may also limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the FDA-approved products for a particular indication. Failure to obtain timely hospital formulary approval will limit our commercial success, and obtaining such approval can be an expensive and time consuming process.  We cannot be certain if and when we will obtain the formulary approvals to allow us to sell our products into our target markets, nor, if formulary approval is obtained, at what price our products will be accepted for sale and reimbursement.. Increasingly, third-party payers are also requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. These third-party payers could also impose price controls restricting the prices at which the products will be reimbursed and other conditions that must be met by patients prior to providing coverage for use of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates.. Third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for medical products and services, which can impact the demand for, or the price of, such products and services. The process for determining whether a payer will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payer will pay for the product once coverage is approved. Levels of reimbursement may also decrease in the future, due to the availability of numerous generic pain medications available at lower costs or future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payers which may adversely affect the demand for and reimbursement available for IV meloxicam or our other product candidates, which in turn, could negatively impact pricing. If patients are not adequately reimbursed for IV meloxicam or our other product candidates, they may reduce or discontinue purchases of it, which would result in a significant shortfall in achieving revenue expectations and negatively impact our business, prospects and financial condition.. If we obtain approval to commercialize our products outside of the United States, a variety of risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect our business.. If our product candidates are approved for commercialization, we may enter into agreements with third parties to market IV meloxicam or other product candidates outside the United States.  We expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to entering into international business relationships, including:. •  different regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;. •  reduced protection for intellectual property rights;. •  unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;. •  economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. •  compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;. •  foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. •  foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. •  workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. 41. •  production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and. •  business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters including earthquakes, typhoons, floods and fires.. The realization of any of these risks would negatively affect our ability to attain or sustain profitability.. Our relationships with physicians, patients and payers in the U.S. are subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these laws could expose us to criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, reputational harm, and could harm our results of operations and financial conditions.. Our current and future operations with respect to the commercialization of IV meloxicam and our other product candidates are subject to various U.S. federal and state healthcare laws and regulations. These laws impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing, support and education programs and constrain our business and financial arrangements and relationships with third-party payers, healthcare professionals and others who may prescribe, recommend, purchase or provide IV meloxicam or our other product candidates, and other parties through which we market, sell and distribute IV meloxicam or our other product candidates. Finally, our current and future operations are subject to additional healthcare-related statutory and regulatory requirements and enforcement by foreign regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. The laws are described in greater detail in the section below under \"Business  -  Government Regulation  -  Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements,\" and include, but are not limited to:. •  the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, lease, order, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of, any good or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation;. •  the U.S. civil False Claims Act (which can be enforced through \"qui tam,\" or whistleblower actions, by private citizens on behalf of the federal government), prohibits any person from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented false or fraudulent claims for payment of government funds or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing or concealing an obligation to pay money to the U.S. federal government;. •  HIPAA, which imposes criminal and civil liability for, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, or knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement, in connection with the delivery of, or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services by a healthcare benefit program, which includes both government and privately funded benefits programs; similar to the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation.. •  state laws and regulations, including state anti-kickback and false claims laws, that may apply to our business practices, including but not limited to, research, distribution, sales and marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including private insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the U.S. federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; and state laws and regulations that require drug manufacturers to file reports relating to pricing and marketing information, which requires tracking gifts and other remuneration and items of value provided to healthcare professionals and entities; and. •  the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, implemented as the Open Payments program, and its implementing regulations, requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies that are reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children's Health Insurance Program to report annually to CMS information related to certain payments made in the preceding calendar year and other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members.. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare or pharmaceutical company may fail to comply fully with one or more of these requirements. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third. 42. parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations or guidance. In addition, the complex framework of laws and regulations at the federal and state law are subject to change, which could lead to non-compliance or additional costs in updating our compliance mechanism to reflect these changes.  For example, several states have begun to enact new laws or regulations affecting or restricting payments that pharmaceutical manufacturers or distributors can make to physicians and other drug prescribers.  If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, additional oversight and reporting requirements if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to the same criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our financial condition and divert resources and the attention of our management from operating our business.. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate negative publicity in addition to the aforementioned potential regulatory actions. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize IV meloxicam or our other product candidates and generate revenues which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are able to successfully commercialize IV meloxicam or our other product candidates and if we participate in but fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional pricing pressures and controls, reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. If we participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, and other governmental pricing programs, we will be obligated to pay certain specified rebates and report pricing information with respect to IV meloxicam or our other product candidates. Pricing and rebate calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by the CMS to be incomplete or incorrect. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on our submission to CMS of our current AMP and best price for the quarter. If we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due, and CMS may request or require restatements for earlier periods as well. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Any corrections to our rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities, such as safety-net providers, under the 340B program, and under other similar government pricing programs. These programs are described in greater detail in the section below under \"Business  -  Government Regulation  -  Third-Party Payer Coverage and Reimbursement.\". We will also be liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data. In addition to retroactive rebates and the potential for 340B program refunds, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false AMP, or best price information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $181,071 per item of false information. If we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our average sales price, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties of up to $13,066 for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied. Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly AMP and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $18,107 per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date. Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which we participate in the Medicaid program. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, federal payments may not be available under Medicaid for IV meloxicam or our other product candidates. A final regulation imposes a civil monetary penalty of up to $5,000 for each instance of knowingly and intentionally charging a 340B covered entity more than the 340B ceiling price.. Federal law requires that a company must participate in the FSS pricing program to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds. As part of this program, we would be obligated to make IV meloxicam or our other product candidates available for procurement on an FSS contract under which we must comply with standard government terms and conditions and charge a price that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price to four federal agencies (VA, DOD, Public Health Service, and U.S. Coast Guard). The Federal Ceiling Price is based on the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price, which we calculate and report to the VA on a quarterly and annual basis. If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated Federal Ceiling Price or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to. 43. make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the U.S. civil False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The Affordable Care Act and any changes in healthcare law may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize IV meloxicam or our other product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. The United States and many foreign jurisdictions have enacted or proposed legislative and regulatory changes affecting the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates or restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell IV meloxicam or our other product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. The United States government, state legislatures and foreign governments also have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid healthcare costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs.. The Affordable Care Act was intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. These intended reforms are described in greater detail in the section below under \"Business  -  Government Regulation  -  United States Healthcare Reform.\". Among the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that have been implemented since enactment and are of importance to the commercialization of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates are the following:. •  an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs or biologic agents;. •  an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;. •  expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the U.S. civil False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;. •  a Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for a manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. •  extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. •  a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted, or injected;. •  expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs;. •  expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. •  requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals;. •  a requirement to annually report certain information regarding drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and. •  a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. There have been significant ongoing efforts to modify or eliminate the Affordable Care Act.  For example, the Tax Act enacted on December 22, 2017, repealed the shared responsibility payment for individuals who fail to maintain minimum essential coverage under section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code, commonly referred to as the individual mandate, beginning in 2019. Further legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the Affordable Care Act remain possible. It is unknown what form any such changes or any law proposed to replace the Affordable Care Act would take, and how or whether it may affect our business in the future.. 44. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well as other healthcare reform measures that have and may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products.. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties. We rely on limited sources of supply and manufacturing for injectable meloxicam and our other product candidates, and if we encounter any issues with our contract manufacturers or suppliers, we may need to qualify alternative manufacturers or suppliers, which could impair our ability to sufficiently and timely manufacture and supply injectable meloxicam.. We do not own facilities for clinical-scale or commercial manufacturing of injectable meloxicam and our other product candidates and we rely on third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers to manufacture injectable meloxicam.  For example, Alkermes is currently our sole supplier of bulk injectable meloxicam formulation and Patheon provides sterile fill and finish services. Currently, Alkermes is the only established supplier of bulk injectable meloxicam formulation, and we have committed to purchase a certain percentage of our annual requirements of sterile fill and finish services from Patheon. Although our supply agreement and manufacturing agreements for injectable meloxicam and our other product candidates allow us to qualify and purchase from an alternative supplier or manufacturer in certain circumstances, it would be time-consuming and expensive for us to do so, and there can be no assurance that an alternative supplier could be found.  The number of potential manufacturers that have the necessary equipment, expertise and governmental licenses to produce our product candidates is limited.  If we encounter any issues with our contract manufacturers or choose to engage a new supplier or contract manufacturer for any of our product candidates, we would need to qualify and obtain FDA approval for another contract manufacturer or supplier as an alternative source for these products and services, which could be costly and cause significant delays.. Relying on third-parties to manufacture our product candidates exposes us to risks that may delay: testing, development, regulatory approval, commercialization and overall manufacturing of our product candidates.. We currently lack the internal resources to manufacture injectable meloxicam and our other product candidates. Although we have agreements pertaining to the manufacture, testing, supply, storage and distribution of product supplies of injectable meloxicam, upon commercialization, it is possible that our manufacturing requirements may exceed the available supply allotments under our existing agreements. We currently rely on Alkermes and Patheon to manufacture, test and supply injectable meloxicam. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks:. •  we may be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any;. •  third-party manufacturers might be unable to manufacture our products in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical and commercial needs, if any;. •  contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed, and operate their business independently from us.  Contract manufacturers are directly responsible for their own FDA cGMP interactions and we may not be privy to all ongoing discussions and information concerning products or process unrelated to us.  Additionally, contract manufacturers may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute our products;. •  product manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the DEA, and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards and our manufacturers may be found to be in noncompliance with certain regulations, which may impact our ability to manufacture our drug product candidates and may impact the regulatory status of our product candidates; and. •  if any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation.. Each of these risks could delay the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA or the commercialization of our product candidates or result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues.  If we do not successfully navigate each of these risks in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize our product candidates, which would materially harm our business.. 45. If third-party service providers, including carriers, logistics providers and distributors fail to devote sufficient time and resources IV meloxicam or their performance is substandard, our product launch may be delayed and our costs may be higher than expected.. Our reliance on third-party service providers, including carriers, logistics providers and distributors exposes us to risks which could delay or impair the commercialization of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates, result in higher costs, or deprive us of potential product revenues.  Our carriers may experience technical issues relating to the timing and shipment of our products, may encounter issues in connection with transporting our products internationally, or may become subject to other transit difficulties that could cause loss or damage to our products, some of which may not be adequately covered under our insurance policies.  Our third-party logistic providers may experience difficulty in providing key services relating to customer service, warehousing, inventory management, distribution services, contract management, chargeback processing, accounts receivable management, cash application and financial management.  Our distributors could become unable to sell and deliver IV meloxicam or our other product candidates for regulatory, compliance and other reasons.  Our carriers, logistics providers, distributors and other third-party service providers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in business for the time required to successfully ship, store, deliver, sell and distribute our products and we may incur additional cost.  Any of our vendors could also default on or terminate their agreements with us, which could delay or impair the commercialization of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates.. Issues with product quality could have a material adverse effect upon our business, subject us to regulatory actions and cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products.. Our success depends upon the quality of our products. Quality management plays an essential role in meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, improving our product candidates and services and assuring the safety and efficacy of our product candidates. Our future success depends on our ability to maintain and continuously improve our quality management program. A quality or safety issue may result in adverse inspection reports, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, costly litigation, refusal of a government to grant approvals and licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. An inability to address a quality or safety issue in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence in us or our future products, which may result in difficulty in successfully launching product candidates and the loss of sales.. Manufacturing issues may arise that could increase product and regulatory approval costs or delay commercialization.. As we scale up manufacturing of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates and conduct required stability testing, issues may arise involving product-packaging and third-party equipment malfunctions. These issues may require refinement or resolution in order to proceed with commercial marketing of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates. In addition, quality issues may arise during scale-up and validation of commercial manufacturing processes. Any issues in our product or delivery devices could result in increased scrutiny by regulatory authorities, delays in our regulatory approval process, increases in our operating expenses, or failure to obtain or maintain approval for our products.. We use third parties to assist with conducting, supervising and monitoring portions of our clinical studies, and if those third parties perform in an unsatisfactory manner, it may harm our business.. We use third parties to provide certain manufacturing and operational support and for assistance with clinical trials, data management and statistical support.  While we have agreements governing their activities, we have limited influence over certain of these third parties' actual performance.  We have previously relied upon such third parties and plan to continue to use third parties to assist with monitoring and managing data for our ongoing clinical programs for IV meloxicam and our other product candidates, as well as the execution of nonclinical studies.  We control only certain aspects of our third parties' activities.. We and our contractors are required to comply with cGCPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA and equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries for all of our product candidates in clinical development.  The FDA and the equivalent regulatory authorities in other countries enforce these cGCPs through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and clinical trial sites.  If we or our contractors fail to comply with applicable cGCPs, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications.  In addition, our clinical trials for IV meloxicam and our other product candidates will require a sufficiently large number of test subjects to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of each product candidate.  Accordingly, if our contractors fail to comply with these regulations or fail to recruit a sufficient number of patients, we may be required to repeat the clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. These contractors may also have relationships with other commercial entities, including our competitors, for whom they may also be conducting clinical studies, or other drug development activities that could harm our competitive position.  While we take steps to protect our intellectual property, we face the risk of potential unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation of our intellectual property by our contractors, which may allow our potential competitors to access our proprietary technology.  If our contractors do not. 46. successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or fail to meet expected deadlines for items within their purview, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they oversee is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for any other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize IV meloxicam or our other product candidates.  As a result, our financial results and the commercial prospects for IV meloxicam and any future product candidates that we develop would be harmed, our costs could increase, and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. Risks Related to Our CDMO Division. Revenues from our development, formulation and manufacturing business are dependent on a small number of commercial partners, and the loss of one of these partners, or a decline in their orders, may adversely affect our business.. Our CDMO division is dependent on our relationships with a small number of commercial partners, with our four largest customers (Novartis AG, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc., Pernix and Lannett Company, Inc.) having generated 98% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, of which Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Inc. generated 45% of our revenue under one customer agreement and Novartis Pharma AG generated 40% of our revenue combined under two separate customer agreements. Our contracts with our commercial partners are for a short term, generally one year.  If any one or more of these commercial partners fails to renew their contract, adjusts pricing, significantly reduces their purchasing volume or experiences financial difficulties such as bankruptcy, our revenues could be adversely affected.  We are actively seeking to develop new customer relationships but there can be no guarantee that we will be able to expand our customer base.. Our royalty, profit sharing and manufacturing revenues from this business also depend on the ability of our commercial partners to effectively market and sell their products to their customers.  A commercial partner may choose to devote its efforts to its other products or reduce or fail to devote the necessary resources to provide effective sales and marketing support of the products we manufacture and supply.  Our commercial partners face competition from other pharmaceutical companies for sales of products to end users.  Competition from sellers of generic drugs is a major challenge for our commercial partners, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights for the products we manufacture can have a significant adverse effect on their sales volume.  This and any other significant reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from our commercial partners could adversely affect our revenues.. In addition, the financial covenants in our credit agreement with Athyrium include minimum revenue targets for our CDMO division, and any significant reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from our commercial partners may cause us to fail to meet such targets, which may result in an event of default under the credit agreement with Athyrium and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. We are subject to risks related to large-scale commercial manufacturing.. Manufacturing pharmaceuticals, especially in large quantities, is complex.  The products we manufacture for our commercial partners require several manufacturing steps and may involve complex techniques to assure quality and sufficient quantity.  Our manufactured products must be made consistently and in compliance with a clearly defined manufacturing process.  Slight deviations anywhere in the manufacturing process, including obtaining materials, equipment malfunctions, filling, labeling, packaging, storage, shipping, regulatory compliance, quality control and testing, some of which all pharmaceutical manufacturing companies experience from time to time, may result in lot failures, delay in the release of lots, product recalls or spoilage.  Success rates can vary dramatically at different stages of the manufacturing process, which can lower yields and increase costs.. In addition, some of the raw materials needed for the manufacture of our products are currently available from a single source or a limited number of qualified sources of these products.  Although we attempt to acquire an adequate inventory of such materials, establish alternative sources and/or negotiate long-term supply arrangements, there is no certainty that we will be able to obtain long-term supplies of our manufacturing materials in the future. We may also experience deviations in the manufacturing process or interruptions in our supply chain that may take significant time and resources to resolve and, if unresolved, may affect manufacturing output and/or cause us to fail to satisfy customer orders or contractual commitments or result in litigation or regulatory action.. Our manufacturing facility also requires specialized personnel and is expensive to operate and maintain.  Any suspension of the sale of products of our commercial partners to be manufactured in our facility may cause operating losses as we continue to operate the facility and retain specialized personnel.  In addition, any interruption in manufacturing could result in delays in meeting our contractual obligations and could damage our relationships with our commercial partners, including the loss of manufacturing and supply rights.. 47. Our development and formulation services projects are typically for a shorter term than our manufacturing projects, and any failure by us to maintain a high volume of development and formulation services projects, including due to lower than expected success rates of the products for which we provide services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our pharmaceutical development services business contracts are generally shorter in term than our manufacturing contracts and typically require us to provide development services within a designated scope.  Since our development and formulation services focus on products that are still in developmental stages, their viability depends on the ability of such products to reach their respective subsequent development phases.  In many cases, such products do not reach subsequent development phases and, as a result, the profitability of the related pharmaceutical development service project may be limited.  Even if a customer wishes to proceed with a project, the product we are developing on such customer's behalf may fail to receive necessary regulatory approval or may have its development hindered by other factors, such as the development of a competing product.. If we are unable to continue to obtain new projects from existing and new customers, our development and formulation services business could be adversely affected.  Furthermore, although our development and formulation services business acts as a pipeline for our manufacturing services business, we cannot predict the conversion rate of our development and formulation services projects to commercial manufacturing services projects, or how successful we will be in winning new projects that lead to a viable product.  As such, an increase in the turnover rate of our development and formulation services projects may negatively affect our manufacturing services business at a later time.  In addition, the discontinuation of a project as a result of our failure to satisfy a customer's requirements may also affect our ability to obtain future projects from such customer, as well as from new customers.  Any failure by us to maintain a high volume of development and formulation services projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products, we could incur substantial costs and a reduction in revenues.. We are required to maintain compliance with cGMP, and our manufacturing facility is subject to inspections by the FDA and other global regulators to confirm such compliance.  Changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the FDA and acceptance of the change by the FDA prior to release of our manufactured products.  Because we produce multiple products at our manufacturing facility, there are increased risks associated with cGMP compliance.  On January 24, 2018, following a six day inspection of our manufacturing facility, the FDA issued a Form 483 containing four observations relating to good documentation practices and data integrity.  We have promptly responded to these observations as a part of our ongoing obligations under the FDA's quality system regulation and have implemented corrective and preventative actions to ensure these type of observations do not occur in the future  While we remain committed to continuous improvement and strengthening our quality system and ensuring that all aspects of the system are in full compliance, we can provide no assurance that our remediation efforts will be successful to a degree acceptable by the FDA.. Our inability to demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance, including the remediation of the observations in the recent Form 483, could require us to engage in additional lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall products and/or interrupt commercial supply of any products.  Any delay, interruption or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product as a result of a failure of our facility to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cGMP compliance or remediate the observations from the recent Form 483 could significantly impair our relationships with our commercial partners, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition.  Any ongoing or additional findings of non-compliance could also increase our costs and cause us to lose revenue from manufactured products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition.. Additionally, our manufacturing activities are subject to the Controlled Substances Act and the regulations of the DEA.  Accordingly, we must adhere to a number of requirements with respect to controlled substances, including registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements; labeling and packaging requirements; security controls, procurement and manufacturing quotas; and certain restrictions on refills.  Failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements can result in enforcement action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.  The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations.  In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings.. We may not be able to successfully offer new services.. In order to successfully compete, we will need to offer and develop new services.  Without the timely introduction of enhanced or new services, our services and capabilities may become obsolete over time, in which case, our revenues and operating results would suffer.  The related development costs may require a substantial investment before we can determine their commercial viability, and we may not have the financial resources to fund such initiatives.. 48. In addition, the success of enhanced or new services will depend on several factors, including but not limited to our ability to:. •  properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, including increasing demand for lower cost services;. •  enhance, innovate, develop and manufacture new offerings in an economical and timely manner;. •  differentiate our offerings from competitors' offerings;. •  meet quality requirements, authorization requirements, and other regulatory requirements of government agencies;. •  obtain valid and enforceable intellectual property rights; and. •  avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties.. Even if we were to succeed in creating enhanced or new services, those services may not result in commercially successful offerings or may not produce revenues in excess of the costs of development and capital investment and may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or by technologies or features offered by our competitors.  In addition, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace due to, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice, the need for regulatory clearance and uncertainty over market access or government or third-party reimbursement.. Technological change may cause our offerings to become obsolete over time.  A decrease in our customers' purchases of our offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The healthcare industry is characterized by rapid technological change.  Demand for our services may change in ways that we may not anticipate because of evolving industry standards or as a result of evolving customer needs that are increasingly sophisticated and varied or because of the introduction by competitors of new services and technologies.  In addition, we require capital and resources to support the maintenance and improvement of our facilities, including replacing or repairing aging production equipment and updating overall facility master plans.  If we are unable to maintain and improve our facilities, we may experience unscheduled equipment downtime and unpredicted machinery failure and become unable to supply our customers with products or services which may affect business continuity.  Any such incident or disruption in business continuity could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be adversely affected by natural disasters or other events that disrupt our business operations, and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not adequately protect us from a serious disaster.. Our manufacturing facility is located in Gainesville, Georgia, where natural disasters or similar events, like hurricanes, blizzards, tornadoes, fires, floods or explosions or large-scale accidents or power outages, could severely disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.  If a disaster, power outage or other event occurred that prevented us from using all or a significant portion of our Gainesville facility, damaged critical infrastructure, such as manufacturing resource planning and enterprise quality systems, or otherwise disrupted operations at that location, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible for us to continue our development, formulation and manufacturing business for a substantial period of time.. Currently, we maintain insurance coverage against damage to our property and equipment, and to cover business interruption expenses, in an amount we believe is sufficient for our development, formulation and manufacturing operations.  However, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against actual losses.  Even if we maintain adequate insurance coverage, claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations and on our ability to obtain suitable, adequate or cost-effective insurance in the future.. We must comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. In connection with our CDMO division, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies concerning the environment and the health and safety of our employees.  Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future.  Current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions.. 49. In addition, our business conducted by our CDMO division involves the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials, including chemicals, solvents, agents and biohazardous materials.  As a result, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes.  Although we believe that our safety procedures for storing, handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by those regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials.  We currently contract with third parties to dispose of these substances that we generate, and we rely on these third parties to properly dispose of these substances in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  If these third parties do not properly dispose of these substances in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to legal action by governmental agencies or private parties for improper disposal of these substances.  The costs of defending such actions and the potential liability resulting from such actions are often very large.  In the event we are subject to such legal action or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials and chemicals, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources.. Although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees, including those resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities.. Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Industry. Our future success depends on our ability to retain and have the full attention of our key executives as well as to attract, retain and motivate other qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our executive team and, in particular, the services of Gerri A. Henwood, our President and Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whose services would adversely impact the achievement of our objectives.  We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers.  Recruiting and retaining qualified employees for our business, including scientific and technical personnel, will also be critical to our success.  There is currently a shortage of skilled executives in our industry, which is likely to continue.  As a result, competition for skilled personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high.  We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical companies for individuals with similar skill sets.  In addition, failure to succeed in clinical studies may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified personnel.  The inability to recruit or loss of the services of any executive or key employee could impede the progress of our research, development and commercialization objectives.. We will need to continue to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. We have begun to grow the size of our managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources as we prepare for the potential approval and commercialization of IV meloxicam and the ongoing development of our other product candidates.  However, our management, personnel and systems currently in place may not be adequate to support this growth or assist us with the potential growth into a commercial stage pharmaceutical company.  As we continue to expand, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees.  Additional future growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of our existing or future product candidates.  Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. •  managing the commercialization of any FDA - approved product candidates;. •  overseeing our ongoing clinical trials effectively;. •  identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees, including any additional sales and marketing personnel engaged in connection with the commercialization of any approved product, on terms that are favorable to us if at all;. •  managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors and other third parties;. •  improving our managerial, development, operational and financial systems and procedures; and. •  expanding our facilities.. As our operations expand, we will need to manage additional relationships with various collaboration partners, suppliers and other third parties.  Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively. 50. will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively.  To that end, we must be able to manage our development efforts and clinical trials effectively and hire, train and integrate additional management, administrative and sales and marketing personnel.  We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company.. We may acquire other assets or businesses, or form collaborations or make investments in other companies or technologies, that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, dilute our shareholders' ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of assets, including preclinical, clinical or commercial stage products or product candidates, businesses or strategic alliances and collaborations, to expand our existing technologies and operations.  We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost - effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates, and if we make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we may incur additional debt or assume unknown or contingent liabilities in connection therewith.  Integration of an acquired company or assets may also disrupt ongoing operations, require the hiring of additional personnel and the implementation of additional internal systems and infrastructure, especially the acquisition of commercial assets, and require management resources that would otherwise focus on developing our existing business. On April 10, 2015, we completed the acquisition from Alkermes of certain assets, including the worldwide rights to injectable meloxicam and the development, formulation and manufacturing business that comprised our CDMO division, which we refer to as the Gainesville Transaction. While we have successfully integrated the assets that we purchased in the Gainesville Transaction into our infrastructure, we cannot assure that the experience would be the same for future acquisitions.  We may not be able to find suitable strategic alliance or collaborators or identify other investment opportunities, and we may experience losses related to any such investments.. To finance any acquisitions or collaborations, we may choose to issue debt or shares of our common or preferred stock as consideration.  Any such issuance of shares would dilute the ownership of our shareholders.  If the price of our common stock is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other assets or companies or fund a transaction using our stock as consideration.  Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds for acquisitions through public or private financings.  Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.. Our employees, partners, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, vendors and contract research organizations may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, partners, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, vendors and CROs may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity with respect to our business.  Misconduct by these employees could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or unauthorized activity that violates: (1) FDA or DEA regulations, including those laws requiring the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA; (2) manufacturing standards; (3) federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations; or (4) laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data.  Activities subject to these laws also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, or illegal misappropriation of drug product, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation.  Any incidents or any other conduct that leads to an employee receiving an FDA debarment could result in a loss of business from our partners and severe reputational harm.  We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations.  If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, monetary fines, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, operating results and financial condition.. We face potential product liability claims, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability.. The use of our product candidates in clinical studies and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval exposes us to the risk of product liability claims.  In addition, our CDMO division exposes us to potential toxic tort and other types of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture of pharmaceutical products.  Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products.  If we cannot successfully defend against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liability and costs.  In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. 51. •  impairment of our business reputation and negative media attention;. •  withdrawal of clinical study participants;. •  termination of clinical trial sites;. •  costs due to related litigation;. •  distraction of management's attention from our primary business;. •  decreased demand for our manufacturing services or loss of any of our commercial partners;. •  substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;. •  the inability to commercialize our product candidates;. •  decreased demand for our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale; and/or. •  increased scrutiny and potential investigation by, among others, the FDA, the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S.  Department of Health and Human Services, State Attorneys General, members of Congress and the public.. Our current product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer.  Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability.  If and when we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms or in adequate amounts.. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated AEs.  A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could adversely affect our results of operations and business.. We incur increased costs and demands upon our management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results.. We are a public company and, as such, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements.  We incur costs associated with current corporate governance requirements, including certain of the requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Capital Market, the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed.  If we fail to comply with current corporate governance requirements, our business may be negatively affected, including by having our common stock delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market.. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have increased dramatically in recent years.  We expect these rules and regulations to continue to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly.  We are unable to currently estimate these costs with any degree of certainty.  We also expect that these rules and regulations may make it difficult and expensive for us to continue to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and if we are able to maintain such insurance, we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage available to privately-held companies.  As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors, or the board, or as our executive officers.. The security of our information technology systems may be compromised in the event of system failures, unauthorized access, cyberattacks or a deficiency in our cybersecurity, and confidential information, including non-public personal information that we maintain, could be improperly disclosed.. We rely extensively on information technology and systems including internet sites, data hosting, physical security, and software applications and platforms.  Despite our security measures, our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, power outages, user errors or catastrophic events. A significant breakdown, invasion, corruption, destruction or interruption of critical information technology systems, by our employees, others with authorized access to. 52. our systems or unauthorized persons could negatively impact or interrupt operations.  For example, the loss of data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data.  The use of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates opportunities for the unintentional dissemination or intentional destruction of confidential information stored in our systems or our third-party systems.  We could also experience a business interruption, theft of confidential information or reputational damage from malware or other cyberattacks, which may compromise our systems or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers.  As part of our business, we maintain large amounts of confidential information, including non-public personal information on patients and our employees.  Such breaches in security, either internally or at our third-party providers, could result in the loss or misuse of this information, which could, in turn, result in potential regulatory actions or litigation, including material claims for damages, interruption to our operations, damage to our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  Although we believe we have appropriate information security policies and systems in place in order to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information, including non-public personal information, there can be no assurance that such use or disclosure will not occur.. If we fail to comply with data protection laws and regulations, we could be subject to government enforcement actions (which could include civil or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity, which could negatively affect our operating results and business.. We are subject to laws and regulations that address privacy and data security of patients who use our product candidates in the United States and in states in which we conduct our business. In the United States, numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state data breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act) govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of health-related and other personal information. For instance, HIPAA imposes certain obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information and imposes notification obligations in the event of a breach of the privacy or security of individually identifiable health information on entities subject to HIPAA and their business associates that perform certain activities that involve the use or disclosure of protected health information on their behalf. Certain of these laws and regulations are described in greater detail in the section below under \"Business  -  Government Regulation  -  Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements.\" Failure to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions and create liability for us, which could include civil and/or criminal penalties, as well as private litigation and/or adverse publicity that could negatively affect our operating results and business.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. We own or license numerous pending patent applications and issued patents in the United States.  If our pending patent applications fail to issue or if our issued patents expire or are successfully opposed, invalidated, or rendered unenforceable, our business will be adversely affected.. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for our product candidates, as well as successfully defending our current and future patents against third-party challenges.  To protect our proprietary technology, we intend to rely on patents, and we may also rely on other intellectual property protections, including trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and confidentiality provisions.. There can be no assurance that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents.  As of December 31, 2017, we own patents and patent applications for injectable meloxicam that cover compositions, including compositions produced using NanoCrystal® technology, method of making and method of treating.  These issued patents expire in 2022 in the United States.  We also in-license from Alkermes, on a perpetual royalty-free basis, composition and methods of making patent and patent applications (specifically directed to the prevention of flake like substances) which expire in 2030.  As of December 31, 2017, we own or license a total of five issued U.S. patents and 4 U.S. pending patent applications, and 50 issued foreign patents (including European validation countries) and 5 pending foreign applications related to meloxicam.  As of December 31, 2017, we own six issued U.S. patents relating to Zohydro-ER®, two of which expire on November 1, 2019, and four of which expire on September 12, 2034.  We also own Canadian patent applications that are pending relating to the same technology, which we license to our commercial partner, Paladin Labs Inc., in Canada.  As of December 31, 2017, we are the owner of record of one issued U.S. patent and ten issued foreign patents to Dex.  As of December 31, 2017, we are also the owner of record and are prosecuting one U.S. non-provisional patent application and 34 foreign patent applications related to certain product pipeline candidates.  In addition, we have recently licensed four patent families containing several U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending applications related to neuromuscular blocking agents from Cornell University.  The patent applications that we have filed and have not yet been granted may fail to result in issued patents in the United States or in foreign countries.  Even if the patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge the patents or the inventorship thereof, which can lead to an issued patent being found invalid, unenforceable or can otherwise alter the ownership of the patents.. 53. The issuance of any patent is not a certainty.  Unless and until our pending applications issue, their protective scope is impossible to determine.  It is impossible to predict whether or how many of these applications will result in issued patents and patents that issue may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad.  Such challenges may result in loss of patent exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which may limit our ability to prevent others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products.  In addition, upon expiration of a patent, we may be limited in our ability to prevent others from using or commercializing subject matter covered by the expired patents.  As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.  The composition of matter patents for Dex are licensed from Orion.  The composition of matter patent for Dex expired in January 2014.  If no additional patent protection is obtained, patent expirations will impact our ability to prevent third parties from marketing generic equivalents.. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including us, generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation.  In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than United States law does.  Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after the first filing, or in some case at all.  Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we  or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions.  As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain.  In addition, we may not be aware of particular prior art publications that may have an impact on patentability or enforceability. Further, the examination process may require us or our licensors to narrow the claims for our pending patent applications due to, for example, such prior art publications, which may limit the scope of patent protection that may be obtained if these applications issue.  Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products.  Furthermore, our pending applications cannot be enforced against third parties practicing the technology claimed in such applications unless and until a patent issues from such applications. Because the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, issued patents that we own or have licensed from third parties may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the U.S. and abroad. Such challenges may result in the loss of patent protection, the narrowing of claims in such patents, and/or the invalidity or unenforceability of such patents, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection for our technology and products.  Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of patents or narrow the scope of patent protection.. Patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of patent applications and the enforcement or defense of issued patents.  On September 16, 2011, the Leahy Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy Smith Act, was signed into law.  The Leahy Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law.  These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation.  The United States Patent Office continues to develop and implement new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013.  Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy Smith Act will have on the operation of our business.  However, the Leahy Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patent, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We do not own worldwide rights to all of our product candidates or the exclusive rights to all formulations.. We own worldwide rights to injectable meloxicam.  We have an exclusive license from Orion for the development and, subsequent to approval, the commercialization of Dex-IN for use in the treatment of pain in humans the licensed dosage forms, but specifically excluding delivery vehicles for administration by injection or infusion, in the Territory.  Orion retains the rights to develop and commercialize Dex for all uses and indications other than pain in humans and for use in combination products in that field, and we have granted Orion a license to use our clinical trial data, patents and know-how for such purpose; provided, however that Orion cannot undertake development activities in the United States, Australia or South Africa with respect to treatment of pain in humans in any licensed dosage form until four years after our first product is granted regulatory approval in the United States.  It is possible, therefore, that Orion may develop and commercialize competing products in the territories retained by it and/or combination products for Dex in the Territory.  We are unaware of any such programs at Orion at this time.  We have a right of first refusal to commercialize any such product developed by Orion in the Territory.  However, there is no guarantee that we would have the resources to exercise this right or, if we did, that we would be able to reach mutually agreeable terms with Orion.. 54. Litigation involving patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights is expensive and time consuming.  If we are involved in such litigation, it could cause delays in bringing our product candidates to market and interfere with our business.. Our commercial success depends in part on not infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties.  Although we are not currently aware of litigation or other proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement related to our product candidates, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights.. As we enter our target markets, it is possible that competitors or other third parties will claim that our products and/or processes infringe their intellectual property rights.  These third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents covering products or processes that are similar to, or may include compositions or methods that encompass our technology, allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents.  If such third-party patent is listed in the Orange Book, we would be required to file a certification, known as a Paragraph IV certification, that we are not infringing the patent, or that the patent is invalid.  The third-party would then have 45 days to file a patent infringement lawsuit against us, and if so brought, we could be subject to a stay of up to 30 months (unless before that time the patent expires or is judged to be invalid or not infringed), in which we would be unable to have our 505(b)(2) application approved.. In a patent infringement claim against us, we may assert, as a defense, that we do not infringe the relevant patent claims, that the patent is invalid or both.  The strength of our defenses will depend on the patents asserted, the interpretation of these patents and/or our ability to invalidate the asserted patents.  However, we could be unsuccessful in advancing non-infringement and/or invalidity arguments in our defense.  In the United States, issued patents enjoy a presumption of validity, and the party challenging the validity of a patent claim must present clear and convincing evidence of invalidity, which is a high burden of proof.  Conversely, the patent owner need only prove infringement by a preponderance of the evidence, which is a low burden of proof.. If we were found by a court to have infringed a valid patent claim, we could be prevented from using the patented technology or be required to pay the owner of the patent for the right to license the patented technology.  If we decide to pursue a license to one or more of these patents, we may not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or the license we obtain may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patent rights.  For example, if the relevant patent is owned by a competitor, that competitor may choose not to license patent rights to us.  If we decide to develop alternative technology, we may not be able to do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all.. In addition, because patent applications can take years to issue and are often afforded confidentiality for some period of time, there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that later result in issued patents that could cover one or more of our products.. It is possible that we may in the future receive, particularly as a public company, communications from competitors and other companies alleging that we may be infringing their patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, offering licenses to such intellectual property or threatening litigation.  In addition to patent infringement claims, third parties may assert copyright, trademark or other proprietary rights against us.  We may need to expend considerable resources to counter such claims and may not be able to be successful in our defense.  Our business may suffer if a finding of infringement is established.. Generic competitors can challenge the U.S. patents protecting our product candidates by filing an ANDA or an NDA for a generic or a modified version of our product candidates and negatively affect our competitive position.. Separate and apart from the protection provided under the U.S. patent laws, drug candidates may be subject to the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, which may provide drug candidates with either a three- or five-year period of marketing exclusivity following receipt of FDA approval.  The Hatch-Waxman Act prohibits the FDA from accepting the filing of an ANDA application (for a generic product) or a 505(b)(2) NDA (for a modified version of the product) for three years for active drug ingredients previously approved by the FDA or for five years for active drug ingredients not previously approved by the FDA.. There is an exception, however, for newly approved molecules that allows competitors to challenge a patent beginning four years into the five-year exclusivity period by alleging that one or more of the patents listed in the FDA's list of approved drug products are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed and submitting an ANDA for a generic version of a drug candidate.  This patent challenge is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification.  Within the past several years, the generic industry has aggressively pursued approvals of generic versions of innovator drugs at the earliest possible point in time.. If a generic company is able to successfully challenge the patents covering drug candidates by obtaining FDA approval for an ANDA, the generic company may choose to launch a generic version of a drug candidate.  Any launch of a generic version of our drug candidates prior to the expiration of patent protection will have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our results of operations.. We and our commercial partners have been involved in Paragraph IV litigation in the United States involving some of our patents in respect of Zohydro ER®.  These litigations have been, and any other Paragraph IV litigation may be, expensive, distracting to management and protracted.  Although we and our commercial partners have successfully settled our Paragraph IV litigation, any future Paragraph IV litigation could result in new or additional generic competition to Zohydro ER®.  The introduction of a generic version of Zohydro ER® could cause a reduction in revenue for our manufacturing business, which could have a material adverse. 55. effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.  In addition, we were previously involved in an interference in front of the United States Patent and Trademark Office with another party, which involved a patent application relating to Zohydro ER®, for which we ultimately were successful on appeal.  However, any future interference claims could arise, and if successful, result in the issuance of a patent that could limit our freedom to operate in respect to Zohydro ER®, which could also cause a reduction in revenue for our manufacturing business and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved.  No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical patents has emerged in the United States to date.  The pharmaceutical patent situation outside of the United States is even more uncertain.  Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property.  Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in the patents that may be issued from the applications we currently or may in the future own or license from third parties.  Further, if any patent license we obtain is deemed invalid and/or unenforceable, it could impact our ability to commercialize or partner our technology.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that:. •  we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications;. •  we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. •  others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;. •  an individual or party will not challenge inventorship, that if successful, could have an adverse effect on our business;. •  any patents issued to us or our collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; or. •  the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business.. If we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may possess, which could materially harm our business, negatively affect our position in the marketplace, limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates and delay or render impossible our achievement of profitability.. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. In the future, we may rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and technological advances, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable.  However, trade secrets are difficult to protect.  We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information.  These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information.  Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights.  Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could enable competitors to use our proprietary information to develop products that compete with our products or cause additional, material adverse effects upon our competitive business position.. Periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees and various other governmental fees on patents and/or applications will be due to be paid to the United States Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign governmental patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patents and/or applications.. We have systems in place to remind us to pay periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees and various other patent and application fees, and we employ an outside law firm to pay these fees.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process.  We employ an outside law firm and other professionals to help us comply, and in many cases, an inadvertent lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules.  However, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction.  If this occurs, our competitors may be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. 56. We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.  Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions.  The legal systems of some countries, particularly developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, especially those relating to life sciences.  This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or the misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights.  For example, many foreign countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner must grant licenses to third parties.  In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors.  In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit.. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.  Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate.  In addition, changes in the law and legal decisions by courts in the United States and foreign countries may affect our ability to obtain adequate protection for our technology and the enforcement of intellectual property.. Our ability to manufacture products for our commercial partners may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others.. Our ability to continue to manufacture Ritalin LA®, Focalin XR®, Verelan PM®, Verelan SR®, Verapamil PM, Verapamil SR and Zohydro ER® for our commercial partners, to utilize third parties to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents and other intellectual property rights of others.  Other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacturing and supply chain, infringe patents or other intellectual property rights.  A judicial decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could preclude the manufacture of the products to which those intellectual property rights apply, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Our Securities. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or reports, or if they publish unfavorable research or reports, about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors.  We currently have limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts.  If additional securities or industry analysts do not commence coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock could be negatively impacted.  In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline.  If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future.. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.  Accordingly, any return on an investment in our common stock will be realized, if at all, only when shareholders sell their shares.  In addition, our failure to pay dividends may make our stock less attractive to investors, adversely impacting trading volume and price.. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our directors and their affiliated entities and our executive officers will limit shareholders' abilities to influence certain corporate matters.. Our directors and their affiliated entities, and our executive officers, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 17% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017.  As a result, these shareholders are collectively able to influence matters requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets.  Such influence may delay, prevent or deter a change in control of our company, even when such a change may be in the best interests of some shareholders, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or our assets and might adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock.. 57. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders.. The market price for our common stock has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate or may decline significantly in the future.  An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock or cause it to continue to be highly volatile or subject to wide fluctuations.  Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include, among other things:. •  regulatory approval of IV meloxicam or our other product candidates;. •  FDA, state or international regulatory actions, including actions on regulatory applications for any of our product candidates;. •  legislative or regulatory changes;. •  judicial pronouncements interpreting laws and regulations;. •  changes in government programs;. •  announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;. •  market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. •  fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies;. •  changes in accounting principles;. •  litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or similar product candidates;. •  sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant shareholders; and. •  actions by institutional shareholders.. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance.  The stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, including recently.  In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and decreases in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies.  This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. The JOBS Act allows us to postpone the date by which we must comply with certain laws and regulations and to reduce the amount of information provided in reports filed with the SEC.  We cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act.  We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (1) the beginning of the first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, or January 1, 2020, (2) the beginning of the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenue is $1.07 billion or more, (3) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities and (4) as of the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year.. For as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company,\" we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation and financial statements in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote to approve executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.  In addition, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, for complying with new or revised accounting standards.  An emerging growth company can therefore. 58. delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies.  However, we have chosen to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on some of these exemptions.  If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.  Our reduced disclosure may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate us and may result in less investor confidence.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.  We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock.. Certain holders of our securities are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act.  Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act.  Any sales of shares by these shareholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us.. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that will need to be frequently evaluated.  Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires public companies to conduct an annual review and evaluation of their internal controls and attestations of the effectiveness of internal controls by independent auditors (the latter requirement does not apply to smaller reporting companies-we qualify as a smaller reporting company).  Our failure to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business.  We could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC.  We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision - making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake.  Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls.  Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements or insufficient disclosures due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Pennsylvania law may have anti - takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders, or remove our current management.  These include provisions that:. •  divide our board of directors into three classes with staggered three-year terms;. •  provide that a special meeting of shareholders may be called only by a majority of our board of directors;. •  establish advance notice procedures with respect to shareholder proposals to be brought before a shareholder meeting and the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations made by or at the direction of the board of directors or a committee of the board of director;. 59. •  provide that shareholders may only act at a duly organized meeting; and. •  provide that members of our board of directors may be removed from office by our shareholders only for cause by the affirmative vote of 75% of the total voting power of all shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board of directors, who are responsible for appointing the members of our management.  Because we are incorporated in Pennsylvania, we are governed by the provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our shareholders.  Under Pennsylvania law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 20% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for five years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction.  Any provision of our articles of incorporation or bylaws or Pennsylvania law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock."
