[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to various risks, including those set forth below, that could have a negative effect on our financial condition and could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in this report or other RLH Corporation communications.. Our operating results are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry.. Our revenues and operating results may be impacted by and fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the following:. • Changes in demand for business, convention, group and leisure traveler rooms and related lodging services, including reductions in business and federal, state and local government travel may result due to budgetary constraints, increase in the use of video conferencing services, or general economic conditions;. • Extended periods of low occupancy demand, which may negatively impact our ability to increase rates;. • Changes in travel patterns, extreme weather conditions and cancellation of or changes in events scheduled to occur in our markets;. • Changes in the desirability of the geographic regions in which our hotels are located, or adverse changes in local economies where our hotels are concentrated;. • Insufficient available capital to us or our franchise hotel owners to fund renovations and investments needed to maintain our competitive position;. • New supply or oversupply of hotel rooms in markets in which we operate;. • The attractiveness of our hotels to consumers and competition from other hotels and lodging alternatives such as Airbnb;. • The need to periodically repair and renovate the hotels in our hotel network, including the ongoing need to refresh hotels to meet current industry standards and guest expectations;. • The financial condition of third-party property owners and franchisees, which may impact their ability to fund renovations and meet their financial obligations to us as required under management and franchise agreements;. • The quality and performance of the employees of the hotels in our network;. • Transportation and fuel costs, the financial condition of the airline industry and the resulting impacts on travel, including possible cancellation or reduction of scheduled flights into our markets and reductions in our business with airlines crews, which regularly stay at our hotels in many markets;. • Increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors such as minimum wage requirements, overtime, healthcare, working conditions, work permit requirements and other labor-related costs, energy prices, insurance and property taxes, as well as increases in construction or associated renovation costs;. • Existing and potential new regulations relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, liquor service and health and safety of premises;. • Impact of war, actual or threatened terrorist attacks, heightened security measures and other national, regional or international political and geopolitical conditions;. • Recent travel bans and other federal regulations that restrict entry into the United States could reduce overall tourist and business travel;. • Travelers' fears of exposure to contagious diseases or foodborne illness;. • The impact of internet intermediaries and competitor pricing;. • Restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations, or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations;. • Recently enacted, pending and possible future requirements to make substantial modifications to our hotels to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or other governmental or regulatory requirements;. • Changes in guest expectations with respect to amenities at network hotels that require additional capital to meet; and. • Improvements in technology that require capital investment by us or our franchise hotel owners in infrastructure to implement and maintain.. Any of these factors could adversely impact hotel room demand and pricing and thereby reduce occupancy, ADR and RevPAR or give rise to government imposed fines or private litigants winning damage awards against us. Reductions in occupancy, ADR and/or RevPAR could have a significant negative impact on the portion of our franchise revenues, which is derived from hotel rooms revenues. These items could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 7. The lodging industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hospitality and leisure companies.. The lodging industry is comprised of numerous national, regional and local hotel companies and is highly competitive. Competition for occupancy is focused on three major categories of travelers: business travelers, convention and group business travelers and leisure travelers. All three categories are significant occupancy drivers for our hotel system and our marketing efforts are geared towards attracting their business.. Competition in the industry is primarily based on service quality, range of services, brand name recognition, convenience of location, room rates, guest amenities and quality of accommodations. We compete against national limited and full-service hotel brands and companies, as well as various regional and local hotels in the upscale, midscale and economy hotel segments of the industry. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition, a larger network of locations and greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Competitors may offer significantly lower rates, greater convenience, services or amenities or superior facilities, which could attract customers away from our hotels. New hotels are being built in a number of the markets where we operate, which could adversely affect our business. In order to remain competitive and to attract and retain customers, we and the owners of our franchised and managed hotels must be able to differentiate and enhance the quality, value and efficiency of our product and customer service, and we must make additional capital investment to modernize and update our hotels.. We also compete with other hotel brands and management companies for hotels to add to our network, including through franchise and management agreements. Our competitors include management companies as well as large hotel chains that own and operate their hotels and franchise their brands. As a result, the terms of prospective franchise and management agreements may not be as favorable as our current agreements. In addition, we may be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties in connection with future franchise or management agreements.. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas, our market share and operating results could be diminished, resulting in a decrease in occupancy, ADR and RevPAR for our hotels. Changes in demographics and other changes in our markets may also adversely impact the convenience or desirability of our hotel locations, thereby reducing occupancy, ADR and RevPAR and otherwise adversely impacting our results of operations and financial condition.. General economic conditions may negatively impact our results and liquidity.. Many businesses, including RLH Corporation, were adversely affected by the state of the economy. During the economic downturn, which began in 2007, discretionary travel decreased because of economic pressures, and this in turn hurt the hospitality industry and our company. High unemployment, lower family income, low corporate earnings, lower business investments and lower consumer and government spending all have the effect of reducing the demand for hotel rooms and related lodging services and put pressure on industry room rates and occupancy. Although the economy improved in 2016 and 2017, a slowdown in the economic recovery or a worsening of economic conditions in 2018 could result in weak hospitality occupancy and rates and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Negative economic conditions could also negatively impact our ability to obtain future financing and our liquidity in general. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital and debt service for the foreseeable future, if our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate or we do not meet our financial debt covenants, we could potentially face liquidity problems that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our new programs and new brands may not be successful.. We have made a significant investment in RevPak, a guest management system that allows hotel operators to increase their bookings by integrating customer relationship management software, sales force automation processes, translation services, a central guest reservation system, and digital and field marketing capabilities onto a single platform. Additionally, RevPak allows operators to measure results with reputation management, business intelligence, and web analytics capabilities. We believe this technology provides a measureable benefit to our company and our franchisees by helping increase hotel patronage and generate strong RevPAR growth. However, we cannot be certain that this technology will provide all the benefits we anticipated, that it will be well received by all of our franchisees and hotel owners, or that we will be able to recover the costs we incurred in developing this system. We also cannot assure you that other recently announced programs and brands, such as Hotel RL, or any other new programs or brands we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. We also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring these programs or brands, or that the brands or any new programs will be successful.. 8. If our franchise or management contracts terminate or are not renewed, if new franchisees are unable to effectively integrate their hotels into our system, or if franchisees or owners are unprofitable or go out of business, our franchise or management fee revenue will decline.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 1,061 hotels in our system that were owned by others and operated under franchise agreements. Our revenues and operating results are dependent upon the ability of our franchisees to generate revenue at their franchised properties. If the revenues of our franchisees decrease, or our franchisees close their hotels, our operating results will be negatively affected.. Franchise agreements generally specify a fixed term and contain an early termination provision for the franchisee to terminate at specific intervals or for specific reasons with or without penalty by providing notice to us. There is no assurance these agreements will be renewed, or that they will not be terminated prior to the end of their respective terms. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to replace expired or terminated franchise agreements, or that the provisions of renegotiated or new agreements will be as favorable to us as the expired or terminated agreements. As a result, our revenues could be negatively impacted.. We are party to management contracts for each of the hotels in our joint venture portfolio, RL Venture, Baltimore, Washington, D.C. and Atlanta, as well as Bellevue, Deschutes and Hudson Valley hotel properties, which are owned by third parties. These agreements generally specify a fixed term, as well as management responsibilities defined by certain terms and conditions. Our failure to meet the obligations within these agreements could trigger early termination. Additionally, there is no assurance that these agreements will be renewed, or that they will not be terminated prior to the end of their respective terms for other reasons.. Our business is seasonal in nature, and we are likely to experience fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is seasonal in nature, with the period from May through October generally accounting for the greatest portion of our annual company operated hotel revenues. In addition, our upscale and midscale franchise agreements contain fees paid to us primarily based on a percentage of hotel revenue. Therefore, our results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. The seasonal nature of our business increases our vulnerability to risks during this period, including labor force shortages, cash flow problems, economic downturns and poor weather conditions. The adverse impact to our revenues would likely be greater as a result of our seasonal business.. Our expenses may remain constant or increase even if revenues decline.. The expenses of owning and operating a hotel are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in its revenues. Accordingly, a decrease in our revenues could result in a disproportionately higher decrease in our earnings because our expenses are unlikely to decrease proportionately. In addition, we continue to invest in sales and marketing, technology, franchising and personnel resources in an effort to position our company for future growth. These investments may not produce the returns we anticipate or the returns may take longer to achieve than expected.. We reported net losses from continuing operations from 2008 through 2013 and 2016 through 2017, and, although we had a net profit in 2014 and 2015, there is no assurance that we will be profitable in the future.. During the years 2008 through 2013 and in 2016 and 2017, we reported net losses from continuing operations. Not only did these losses have a direct adverse effect on our financial condition, they also increased our costs of borrowing. Although we have shown a net profit during two of the last four fiscal years, the long prior history of net losses could impair our ability to raise capital needed for franchise expansion, hotel investments and other corporate purposes. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future.. The planned sale of joint venture and company owned hotels may not occur in the timeline expected and the company may not be able to replace the Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA from this business in future periods.. On October 5, 2017 the company's Board of Directors approved a process to market and sell 11 of its 14hotel ownership positions maintained in joint venture arrangements. This is consistent with the Company's previously stated business strategy to focus on moving towards operations as primarily a franchise company. Based on a preliminary review of the market, if all 11 hotels are sold we estimate the aggregate sale value currently between $160 and $175 million. We expect that the completion of these sales would allow the company to significantly reduce or eliminate long-term debt and to increase cash reserves for future franchise agreement growth initiatives.. 9. It is our intention, subject to market conditions to sell all of our hotel ownership positions in the next few years. Despite favorable market conditions at the time of the plan, we cannot be certain that the hotel sales will occur according to the timing or market prices anticipated. The revenue provided by the 11 hotels was $73.1 million, $70.4 million, and $71.6 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Adjusted EBITDA provided by the hotels was $16.8 million, $15.5 million, and $14.4 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  We cannot be certain that we will be able to replace the revenue and Adjusted EBITDA results with franchise business growth in future periods, or that the profit margins of our franchise business will be as we expected.. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and completing acquisitions of new franchised and managed hotels and expanding our brands, which could limit our ability to implement our growth strategy and result in significant expense.. We are continuing to pursue the expansion of our franchise operations in markets where we currently operate and in selected new markets. We are also pursuing expansion of our RLH Corporation brands into targeted segments. Both owned and franchised hotels will be able to carry one of the RLH Corporation brands, and we may consider adding additional brand options in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we managed three hotels in our system that were owned by third parties under a RLH Corporation brand or other brands.. The growth of our franchise business and the management of non-owned hotels will both require considerable management time, as well as expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our objectives with respect to growing the number of franchised and managed hotels in our system or that we will be able to attract qualified franchisees or hotel owners wanting to delegate responsibility for hotel management.. The growth in the number of franchised and managed hotels is subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control and that of the owners of our franchised or managed hotels. Among other risks, the following factors affect our ability to achieve growth in the number of franchised and managed hotels:. • Competition with other hotel companies, many of which have more franchised and managed hotels in their systems and more resources to assist owners of new franchised and managed hotels with capital expenditures needed to satisfy brand standards;. • Our ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees and hotel owners who want us to operate their hotels under one or more of our brands;. • The recognition in the market and the reputation of the RLH Corporation brands;. • Access to financial resources necessary to open or rebrand hotels;. • The ability of the owners of franchised and managed hotels to open and operate additional hotels profitably. Factors affecting the opening of new hotels, or the conversion of existing hotels to RLH Corporation brands, include among others:. • The availability of hotel management, staff and other personnel;. • The cost and availability of suitable hotel locations;. • The availability and cost of capital to allow hotel owners and developers to fund investments;. • Cost effective and timely construction and renovation of hotels (which can be delayed due to, among other reasons, labor and materials availability, labor disputes, local zoning and licensing matters, and weather conditions); and. • Securing required governmental permits.. • Our ability to continue to maintain and enhance our central reservation system to support additional franchised and managed hotels in a timely, cost-effective manner; and. • The effectiveness and efficiency of our development organization.. Our failure to compete successfully for properties to franchise or manage, or to attract and maintain relationships with hotel owners and hotel investors, could adversely affect our ability to expand our system of hotels. An inability to implement our growth strategy could limit our ability to grow our revenue base and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations.. 10. The use of common stock to fund new acquisitions will dilute existing shareholders.. In connection with our acquisition of Vantage, we issued 690,000 shares of common stock, and we settled the first portion of contingent consideration due in January 2018 in the amount of (i) $4.0 million cash and (ii) 414,000 shares of the Company's common stock. We may be required to pay additional consideration following September 2018 for the second and final portion of the Vantage contingent consideration in an aggregate amount of up to (i) $3.0 million in cash and (ii) 276,000 shares of the Company's common stock. Future acquisitions of other hotels or brands may also involve the issuance of our equity securities as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. These future issuances of our equity securities will dilute existing shareholders' ownership interests.. Joint venture and other acquisition arrangements may not prove successful and could result in operating difficulties and failure to realize anticipated benefits.. We have hotel ownership interests, varying from 55% to 73% in joint ventures. We may in the future acquire interests in other properties through joint venture arrangements with other entities. In addition, we may enter into other non-property investment joint ventures through other divisions for marketing or other services. Partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks. Some of these acquisitions may be financed in whole or in part by loans under which we are jointly and severally liable for the entire loan amount along with the other joint venture partners. The terms of these joint venture arrangements may be more favorable to the other party, or parties, than to us. Although we will actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures or similar structures, investing in a property through such arrangements may subject our investment to risks not present with a wholly owned property, including, among others, the following:. • The other owner(s) of the investment might become bankrupt;. • The other owner(s) may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours;. • The other owner(s) may be unable to make required payments or meet guarantor obligations on loans under which we are jointly and severally liable;. • The other owner(s) may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, such as selling the property at a time when to do so would have adverse consequences to us;. • Actions by the other owner(s) might subject the property to liabilities in excess of those otherwise contemplated by us; and. • It may be difficult for us to sell our interest in the property at the time we deem a sale to be in our best interests.. If any franchise or hotel acquisitions fail to perform in accordance with our expectations or if we are unable to effectively integrate new franchisees or hotels into our operations, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer.. Based on our experience, newly acquired, developed or converted hotels typically begin with lower occupancy and room rates, thereby resulting in lower revenue. Any future expansion within our existing markets could adversely affect the financial performance of our hotels in those markets and, as a result, negatively impact our overall results of operations. Expansion into new markets may also present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those we currently encounter in our existing markets. Our inability to anticipate all of the changing demands that expanding operations will impose on our management and management information and reservation systems, or our failure to quickly adapt our systems and procedures to new markets, could result in lost revenue and increased expenses and otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If owners of hotels that we franchise or manage cannot repay or refinance mortgage loans secured by their properties, our revenues and profits could decrease and our business could be harmed.. The owners of many of our franchised and managed properties have pledged their hotels as collateral for mortgage loans they entered into when those properties were purchased or refinanced. If an owner cannot repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lender could declare a default, accelerate the related debt, and repossess the property. Such sales or repossessions could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise agreements and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, which could negatively affect our results of operations.. 11. Failure of the joint venture or joint venture owners to comply with debt covenants could adversely affect our financial results or condition.. In January 2015, we transferred 12 of our owned hotels to RL Venture, a joint venture, of which we own a 55% equity interest. In October 2016, we sold one of these hotels, leaving 11 properties in RL Venture. Additionally, during 2015 we entered into joint ventures related to our Baltimore, Washington, D.C. and Atlanta properties, of which we own equity interests of 73%, 55% and 55%, respectively. We manage these hotels under management agreements with five-year terms and three five-year extension options. In connection with these transactions, the joint ventures borrowed a combined total of $112.5 million, which is secured by the hotel properties within the joint venture entities. The credit agreements for these loans contain customary affirmative and negative covenants. There is no assurance that the joint ventures will be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Any failure to do so could result in a demand for immediate repayment of the loans, which could result in one or more of these hotels being foreclosed upon and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and limit our ability to obtain financing. For additional information, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. We may incur indebtedness in connection with capital expenditures, other corporate purposes or growth of our system of hotels.. Neither our Articles of Incorporation nor our Bylaws limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Subject to limitations in our debt instruments, we may incur additional debt in the future to finance hotel renovations, repairs and replacements, for general corporate purposes or for hotel acquisitions. If our leverage increases, the resulting debt service could adversely affect our operating cash flow. Our continuing indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic and lodging industry conditions, including increases in interest rates, and could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and to take advantage of significant business opportunities that may arise.. Our business requires capital for ongoing hotel maintenance, modernization and renovation, as well as for any acquisitions or development projects we may want to undertake. If needed capital is not available, our ability to successfully compete with hotels in our scale categories may be adversely impacted.. We are committed to keeping our company owned properties well-maintained and attractive to our customers in order to maintain our competitiveness within the industry and keep our hotels properly positioned in their markets. We are also focused on working with our franchise hotel owners so that they maintain their properties to the same standards. This requires ongoing access to capital for both us and our franchisees for replacement of outdated furnishings as well as for facility repair, modernization and renovation. To the extent we or our franchisees cannot fund these expenditures from cash generated from operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. If these funds cannot be obtained, the expenditures have to be deferred to a later period. Without needed investments, we may need to cancel the agreement with the franchisee or move the hotel to a lower classification, both of which would likely have a negative impact on our franchise revenue stream.. In the recent past, our levels of capital expenditures for these purposes had been lower than normal due to the general economic conditions impacting our industry. As a result, in 2016, we completed a substantial renovation project of over $27 million in our company operated hotels in order to support an increase in room rates. Customers may not view these investments and improvements as significant enough to allow us to charge higher room rates, and this could negatively impact our hotel revenues and operating results. There are likely to be similar adverse effects if our franchisees are unable to make comparable investments in their properties. Without needed investments, we may have to move the hotel to a lower classification, which would likely have a negative impact on our hotel revenue stream.. Hotel maintenance, hotel acquisitions and new project development are subject to a number of risks, including:. • Availability of capital;. • Construction delays and cost overruns;. • Unavailability of rooms or meeting space for revenue generating activities during modernization and renovation projects;. • Numerous federal, state and local government regulations affecting the lodging industry, including building and zoning requirements and other required governmental permits and authorizations;. • Uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun; and. • Potential environmental problems.. Whether capital for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels will be available to us and our franchisees depends on a number of factors, including our cash reserves, profitability, degree of leverage, the value of assets, borrowing restrictions that. 12. may be imposed by lenders and conditions in the capital markets. The condition of the capital markets and liquidity factors are outside our control, so there is no assurance that we or our franchisees will be able to obtain financing as needed.. If we need to raise capital through issuance of additional common stock, preferred stock or convertible debt, current shareholders may experience significant dilution. Moreover, there is no assurance that we could raise money through equity issuances.. If we seek to raise additional capital through financing, our leverage may increase. If our leverage increases, the resulting debt service could adversely affect our operating cash flow. Our continuing indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic and lodging industry conditions, including increases in interest rates.. Any unanticipated delays or expenses incurred in connection with hotel maintenance and renovation, hotel acquisitions and new project development could impact expected revenues and availability of funds, negatively affect our reputation among hotel customers, owners and franchisees and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition, including the carrying costs of our assets.. We are subject to various obligations and restrictions under the leases governing our leased properties. In addition, we may not be able to renew these leases on favorable terms or at all.. Four of our hotels and all of our corporate offices are subject to leases. In addition to the requirement to pay rent, the leases for these properties generally impose various maintenance and other obligations on us and may also require us to obtain the consent of the landlord before taking certain actions such as modifications to the properties. These lease provisions may limit our flexibility with the leased properties, delay modifications or other actions we may wish to take, or result in disputes with the landlords. In addition, the terms of the leases for three of our leased properties will expire in the period from 2018 through 2024. There can be no assurance that any of our landlords will be willing to extend these leases and, even if they are willing to extend, it is possible that the lease costs will increase, which would adversely impact the hotel operations and our expenses. If some of our leases are not renewed for any reason, we could incur additional costs and expenses associated with negotiating a new lease agreement and moving our offices to a new location.. The results of some of our hotels are significantly impacted by group contract business and other large customers, and the loss of such customers for any reason could harm our operating results.. Group contract business and other large customers, or large events, can significantly impact the results of operations of some of the hotels in our network. These contracts and customers vary from hotel to hotel and change from time to time. Contracts with large customers such as airlines and railroads are typically for a limited period of time, after which they may be eligible for competitive bidding. The impact and timing of group business and large events are not always predictable and are often episodic in nature. The operating results for hotels in our network can fluctuate as a result of these factors, possibly in adverse ways, and these fluctuations can harm our overall operating results.. The increasing use of third-party travel websites by consumers may adversely affect our profitability.. Some of our hotel rooms may be booked through third-party travel websites operated by companies like Priceline, Expedia or Travelocity. As internet bookings now represent the majority of hotel reservations in the industry, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as \"three-star downtown hotel\") at the expense of brand identification. We believe that these internet intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservation systems. Although most of the business for our hotels is expected to be derived from traditional channels, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our profitability may be adversely affected.. We rely on our central reservation system and other technologies for occupancy at hotels in our network and a lack of investment in upgrades or new technologies or any failures in the system could negatively affect our revenues and cash flows.. The hospitality industry requires the use of technology and systems for property management, procurement, reservations, operation of customer loyalty programs, distribution and other purposes. These technologies can be expected to change guests' expectations, and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced requiring further investment capital. We maintain a hotel reservation system that allows us to manage our hotel network's rooms inventory through various distribution channels, including our website, and execute rate management strategies. As part of our marketing strategy, we encourage guests to book on our website, which guarantees the lowest rate available compared to third-party travel websites.. 13. The development and maintenance of our central reservation system and other technologies may require significant capital. There can be no assurances that, as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs and time frames. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. If our systems fail, whether as a result of a deliberate cyber-attack or an unintentional event that causes interruptions or delays in our ability to process reservations, our ability to conduct business and generate revenue will be negatively impacted. If our systems fail to achieve anticipated benefits, or if we fail to keep up with technological or competitive advances, our revenues and cash flows could suffer.. Our central reservation system includes a third-party operated call center that enables guests to make reservations on a 24/7 basis. Poor performance by the third party provider, disputes with the third party provider, increased costs of the call center or our inability to renew or extend our agreement with the third party on favorable terms could adversely impact the hotel operations and our expenses as well as those of our franchised and managed hotels.. Failure to maintain the security of internal or customer data could adversely affect us.. Our operations require us to collect and retain large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers, which are entered into, processed by, summarized by and reported by our various information systems and those of our service providers. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. Our franchise hotel owners also maintain similar personally identifiable information, on systems that we do not control. The security of this data may potentially be breached due to a number of risks, including cyber-attack, system failure, computer virus, or unauthorized or fraudulent use by customers, company employees, franchisees or employees of third party vendors. Although we employ systems to protect data, no system is impenetrable. A theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data by us or our franchise hotel owners could adversely impact our reputation and could result in significant remedial and other costs, fines and litigation.. We also rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques to reach guests and potential guests, including email marketing, telemarketing and postal mailings. Changes in laws and regulations regarding direct marketing and solicitation could adversely affect the effectiveness of these marketing techniques and could force us to make changes to our marketing strategies. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations regarding direct marketing could result in fines or place restrictions on our business.. If we fail to comply with privacy regulations, we could be subject to fines or other restrictions on our business.. We collect and maintain information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including credit card information and information on guest preferences that we use to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States, as well as by various contracts under which we operate. Privacy regulation is an evolving area in which different jurisdictions may have inconsistent compliance requirements. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to service our guests and market our products, properties and services. In addition, noncompliance with applicable privacy regulations, either by us or in some circumstances by third parties engaged by us or our franchise hotel owners, could result in fines or restrictions on our use or transfer of data.. Disruption or malfunction in our information systems could adversely affect our business.. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. • Earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters;. • Power losses, computer system failures, internet and telecommunications or data network failures, operator negligence, improper operation by or supervision of employees, physical and electronic losses of data and similar events;. • Third party provider disruptions in service; and. • Computer viruses, penetration by individuals seeking to disrupt operations or misappropriate information, and other breaches of security.. We rely on our systems to perform functions critical to our ability to operate, including our central reservation system. Accordingly, an extended interruption in the systems' function could significantly curtail, directly and indirectly, our ability to conduct our business and generate revenue.. 14. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, prevent fraud, or maintain investor confidence.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have devoted significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, Section 404 under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that our auditors attest to the design and operating effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our compliance with the annual internal control report requirement for each fiscal year will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting, data systems, and controls across our operating subsidiaries. Furthermore, a part of our growth strategy has been, and may continue to be, the acquisition of complementary businesses, and we expect these systems and controls to become increasingly complex to the extent that we integrate acquisitions and our business grows. Likewise, the complexity of our transactions, systems, and controls may become more difficult to manage. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement, and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially for acquisition targets that may not have been required to be in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at the date of acquisition.. During our evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, we identified material weaknesses in each of the following areas: Control Environment, Risk Assessment, Monitoring and Financial Closing and Reporting.. In particular, controls related to the following were not designed to operate effectively:. Control Environment. ·  We did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with the appropriate knowledge, experience and/or training in application of GAAP commensurate with our financial reporting requirements.. ·  We did not maintain adequate qualified personnel with regard to certain significant complex transactions and technical accounting matters.. Risk Assessment. · We did not design and maintain internal controls that were effective in identifying, assessing and addressing risks that significantly impact the financial statements or the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting. We did not modify our controls to sufficiently address changes in risks of material misstatement as a result of changes in our operations, organizational structure and operating environment, specifically the expansion of activities related to recent acquisitions.. Monitoring. · We did not design and maintain effective monitoring of compliance with established accounting policies, procedures and controls. This weakness included the failure to design and operate effective procedures and controls whose purpose is to evaluate and monitor effectiveness of the individual control activities.. Financial Closing and Reporting. · We did not design and maintain effective controls over the financial closing and reporting process with sufficient precision to mitigate a potential material misstatement.. These deficiencies are pervasive in nature and create a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements would not have been prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We are currently in the process of implementing our remediation plans, including engaging a third-party provider to help us assess and improve our internal controls for complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, hiring a Chief Accounting Officer with appropriate experience applying GAAP technical accounting guidance, hiring additional accounting personnel and designing additional controls around identification, documentation and application of technical accounting guidance with particular emphasis on events outside the ordinary course of business. As we continue to evaluate and take actions to improve our internal control over financial reporting and the monitoring of those internal controls, we may determine to take additional actions to address control deficiencies or determine to modify certain of the remediation measures described above.. Any failure to remediate the material weaknesses identified above, implement required new or improved controls, or if we were to encounter difficulties in their implementation or operation, or difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could cause harm to our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock and our access to capital.. 15. Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names.. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks, increase brand awareness and further develop our brands. We have registrations with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office of various formulations of certain trademarks, including but not limited to the following: Red Lion, Hotel RL, Red Lion Inn & Suites, GuestHouse, Settle Inn & Suites, Signature, Signature Inn, WestCoast, Cavanaughs and Cascadia Soapery, Hello Rewards, MAKE IT#WORTHIT, MIWI, PROJECT WAKE UP CALL, RLH Corporation and RLH. We also acquired several additional registered trademarks in our transaction with Vantage, including Americas Best Value Inn, ABVI, Best Value Inn, Value Inn Worldwide, Vantage, 3 Palms Hotels & Resorts, America's Best Inns & Suites, Country Hearth Inn & Suites, Jameson Inn, Lexington, Canadas Best Value Inn, and CBVI.. We have also registered various formulations of the Red Lion trademark in Canada, Mexico, China, India, Australia, the European Union and a number of other countries in Asia. We cannot be assured that the measures we have taken to protect our trademarks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brands and their market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business.. Failure to attract, retain and incentivize the performance of senior executives or other key employees could adversely affect our business.. In 2014 we hired new Chief Executive and Chief Marketing Officers. In 2016 we hired a new Chief Franchise Officer and a new Chief Operating Officer, and in 2017 we hired a new Chief Financial Officer. We may in the future hire additional officers and key employees. To be properly integrated into our company, new executives and employees must spend a significant amount of time learning our business model and management system, in addition to performing their regular duties. As a result, the integration of new personnel may result in some disruption to our ongoing operations. If we fail to successfully complete this integration, our business and financial results may suffer.. We place substantial reliance on the lodging industry experience and the institutional knowledge of the members of our senior management team. We compete for qualified personnel against companies with greater financial resources than ours, and the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals, or delay in replacing a key employee, could hinder our ability to effectively manage our business. Finding suitable replacements for senior management and other key employees can be difficult, and there can be no assurance we will continue to be successful in retaining or attracting qualified personnel in the future. We currently do not carry key person insurance on members of our senior management team. Any loss of a senior team member could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. We may have disputes with the owners of the hotels that we franchise or manage.. The nature of our responsibilities under our franchise and management agreements may, in some instances, be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential franchisees, hotel owners and joint venture partners. However, we may not always be able to do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements may result in franchisees or other hotel owners leaving our system of hotels, or in litigation, arbitration or other legal actions.. Our hotels may be faced with labor disputes that could harm the operation of our hotels.. We rely heavily on our employees to provide high-quality personal service at our hotels. At certain of our owned and leased hotels, employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and attempts could be made in the future to unionize our employees at other locations. Any labor dispute or stoppage at an owned, leased or a franchised hotel could harm our ability to provide high-quality personal services, which could reduce occupancy and room revenue, tarnish our reputation and harm our results of operations.. We are exposed to impairment risk of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets.. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts fair value measurement through our company's estimated weighted average cost of capital used to determine discount rate, and through our common stock price that is used to determine market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend.. 16. At the end of 2017, our goodwill amount was $9.4 million, and other intangible assets totaled $50.7 million. Market conditions in the future could adversely impact the fair value of one or both of our franchise or hotel reporting units, which could result in future impairments of their goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets.. The assessment for possible impairment requires us to make judgments, including:. • Estimated future cash flows from the respective properties or business units, which are dependent upon internal forecasts;. • Estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business;. • The useful life over which our cash flows will occur;. • The determination of real estate and prevailing market values;. • Asset appraisals; and. • Current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers or net sales proceeds from previous, comparable transactions, if available and appropriate.. In accordance with the guidance for the impairment of long-lived assets, if the expected undiscounted future cash flows are less than net book value, the excess of net book value over estimated fair value of the assets is charged to current earnings. There were no impairment charges in 2015, 2016 or 2017. Changes in our estimates and assumptions as they relate to valuation of goodwill, intangibles and other long-lived assets could affect, potentially materially, our financial condition or results of operations in the future.. Risks associated with real estate ownership may adversely affect revenue or increase expenses.. We are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real property. Revenue and cash flow from our hotels and other real estate may be adversely affected by, and costs may increase as a result of, changes beyond our control, including but not limited to:. • Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions;. • Changes in local real estate market conditions;. • Increases in interest rates and other changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing and capital leases;. • Increases in property and other taxes;. • The impact of present or future environmental legislation;. • Adverse changes in other governmental regulations, insurance and zoning laws; and. • Condemnation or taking of properties by governments or related entities.. These adverse conditions could potentially cause the terms of our borrowings to change unfavorably. Unfavorable changes in one or more of these conditions could also result in unanticipated expenses and higher operating costs, thereby reducing operating margins and otherwise adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition.. The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotels and harm our financial condition.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and therefore we and the joint ventures in which we participate have a limited ability to promptly sell one or more hotels in response to changing economic, financial or investment conditions. The real estate market, including the market for hotels, is affected by general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. In addition, it may be difficult or impossible to convert hotels to alternative uses if they become unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements, decreased demand or other factors. The conversion of a hotel to an alternative use would also generally require substantial capital expenditures. This inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our hotels could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to service debt. In addition, sales of appreciated real property could generate material adverse tax consequences, which may make it disadvantageous for us to sell certain of our hotels.. Sales of our common stock by our major shareholders, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares.. 17. On February 21, 2018, HNA Investment Management LLC (HNA), which controls 3,738,401 shares, or 15.5% of our common stock, informed us of their decision to proceed with a sale of their shares of common stock, and delivered to us a demand notice for the registration of these shares with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  HNA will control the manner and timing of their sale of our common stock.  We will bear one-half of the fees, costs and expenses related to the registration, other than underwriting discounts, if any, and commissions attributable to the sale of shares by HNA.   Because our common stock is relatively thinly traded, a sale by HNA of our common stock in the public market will likely result in a significant decline in our stock price. Our stock price may also fluctuate materially based on announcements by HNA or other large shareholders disclosing acquisitions or sales of our common stock or expressing their views with respect to actions they believe should be taken by our company.. Our two largest shareholders own 22% of our stock. These shareholders may seek to impact our corporate policy and strategy, and their interests may differ from those of other shareholders. In addition, given the amount of stock held by them, we would likely need their approval in order to undertake any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of our assets.. As of March 16, 2018, Columbia Pacific Opportunity Fund, L.P. (Columbia Pacific) and HNA Investment Management LLC (HNA) held 22% in aggregate of our outstanding shares of common stock. Columbia Pacific, HNA or one or more other large shareholders may take actions designed to impact our corporate policy and strategy, and their interests may differ from those of other shareholders. Such actions could include, among other things, attempting to obtain control of our board of directors or initiating or substantially assisting an unsolicited takeover attempt.. Under our Articles of Incorporation and the laws of the State of Washington, we can undertake a merger or sale of all or substantially all of our assets only if the transaction is approved by holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding shares of common stock. This in turn means that any person or group of persons holding at least one-third of our outstanding shares of common stock would be able to block any such transaction if they chose to do so. Because Columbia Pacific and HNA currently hold a significant percentage of our shares, we believe that as a practical matter they would be able, if they were to act together or with other shareholders, to prevent any such transaction believed not to be in their best interests. This state of affairs adds a level of uncertainty to our business and operations, including in employee hiring and retention, in franchise acquisitions, and in generally developing corporate policy and strategy.. The market price for our common stock may be volatile.. The stock market has experienced and may in the future experience extreme volatility, oftentimes unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise or fall, including but not limited to:. • Changes in general economic conditions, and subsequent fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes;. • Changes in financial estimates, expectations of future financial performance or recommendations by analysts;. • Changes in market valuations of companies in the hospitality industry;. • Actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations;. • Issuances of additional common stock or other securities;. • Announcements by our shareholders disclosing acquisitions or sales of our common stock or expressing their views with respect to actions they believe should be taken by our company;. • Low daily trading volume of our stock; and. • Announcements by us or our competitors of, or speculation with respect to, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances.. We are not currently paying dividends and will likely not pay dividends for the foreseeable future.. We have never paid or declared any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant.. 18. Our properties are subject to risks relating to natural disasters, terrorist activity and war, and any such event could materially adversely affect our operating results without adequate insurance coverage or preparedness.. Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by acts of God, such as natural disasters, particularly in locations where our properties are located. Our properties are generally covered by comprehensive liability, public area liability, fire, boiler and machinery, extended coverage and rental loss insurance. However, certain types of catastrophic losses, such as those from earthquake, volcanic activity, flood, terrorism and environmental hazards, may exceed or not be covered by the insurance. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. Similarly, threatened or actual terrorist activity, war, epidemics, travel-related accidents, geopolitical uncertainty, international conflict and similar events that impact domestic and international travel have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. In addition, depending on the severity, a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity at hotels in our network and consequently impact the value of our brands or the reputation of our business.. Our international operations are subject to political and monetary risks.. We currently have franchised hotels operating outside of the United States, including in Canada, India and South Korea. We may also in the future enter into new joint venture or franchise agreements with foreign hotel operators. International operations generally are subject to greater economic, geopolitical and other risks that are not present in United States operations. These risks include not only administrative and logistical difficulties in managing worldwide operations, but also risks of war, terrorism or civil unrest, political instability, exposure to local economic conditions, and adverse changes in the diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the United States.. Sales in international jurisdictions typically are made in local currencies, which exposes us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of translated U.S. dollars required for expenses outside the United States, or significantly decrease the U.S. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. We also face exposure to currency translation risk because we report the results of our business outside of the United States in local currency, and then translate those results to  U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the  U.S. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative impact on our financial results. To date we have not entered into foreign exchange hedging agreements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, but even if we enter into these hedging agreements in the future, they may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely, and will involve risks of their own in the form of transaction costs and counterparty risk.. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. As a result, the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks and brands in foreign countries may not be sufficient to prevent the unauthorized use or the imitation of our trademarks by others, which could reduce the value of our brand and its goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. As we continue to expand internationally, the risks related to our international operations will become more significant.. Government regulation could impact our franchise business.. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC), various states and certain foreign jurisdictions, where we market franchises, regulate the sale of franchises. The FTC requires franchisors to make extensive disclosure to prospective franchisees but does not require registration. A number of states in which our franchisees operate require registration or disclosure in connection with franchise offers and sales. In addition, several states in which our franchisees operate have \"franchise relationship laws\" or \"business opportunity laws\" that limit the ability of the franchisor to terminate franchise agreements or to withhold consent to the renewal or transfer of these agreements. While our business has not been materially affected by such regulation, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that future regulation or legislation will not have such an effect.. We are subject to environmental regulations.. Our results of operations may be affected by the costs of complying with existing and future environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of contamination from hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate a contaminated property properly, may prevent the owner from selling a property or using it as collateral for a loan. Environmental laws may also restrict the use or transfer of a property as well as the operation of businesses at the property, and. 19. they may also impose remedial or compliance costs. The costs of defending against claims of liability or remediating contaminated property and the cost of complying with environmental laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. When we acquire a hotel, a Phase I environmental site assessment (ESA) is usually conducted by a qualified independent environmental engineer. A Phase I ESA involves an on-site inspection and research of historical usages of a property, databases of underground storage tanks and other matters to determine whether an environmental issue with respect to the property needs to be addressed. If the results of a Phase I ESA reveal potential issues warranting further investigation, a Phase II ESA, which may include soil testing, ground water monitoring or borings to locate underground storage tanks, will be recommended. It is possible that Phase I and Phase II ESAs will not reveal all environmental liabilities or compliance concerns or that there will be material environmental liabilities or compliance concerns that we do not discover. Phase I ESAs have been performed on all properties owned and leased by us.. A Phase II ESA conducted at the Port Angeles hotel property revealed that fill material from an unknown source was placed at the property prior to construction of the existing buildings. Diesel and lube oil-range petroleum hydrocarbons and benzene were detected in one sample collected at concentrations greater than MTCA Method A cleanup levels. If the fill material was from a contaminated site, it could be a potential source of subsurface contamination, so additional testing was conducted at the Port Angeles site in August 2013. These tests identified petroleum hydrocarbons and PAHs at concentrations greater than applicable cleanup levels near a former auto repair area that were likely related to impacted fill material identified in the area. Fill material appears to include burned wood, paper, glass debris, metal material and bricks.  The contamination exceeds clean-up standards but does not appear to be a threat to human health or the environment. Groundwater appears to be contaminated but is likely associated with the contaminated fill.  Groundwater in this area is also likely influenced by tides and is not currently utilized as drinking water. The contaminated soil is capped with asphalt or structures, so that exposure to petroleum vapors or direct contact with contaminated soil is limited. We plan to continue to monitor the affected area and ensure that the asphalt cap is maintained. Depending on the results of further analysis we may have some requirement to perform clean-up of the affected area.. Other than as disclosed above, we have not been notified by any governmental authority and we have no other knowledge of any continuing material noncompliance, material liability or material claim relating to hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental substances in connection with any of our properties. Nevertheless, there is no assurance that these properties do not have any environmental concerns associated with them. In addition, there is no assurance that we will not discover problems we are unaware of that currently exist, that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability, or that the current environmental condition of our existing and future properties will not be affected by the condition of neighboring properties, such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks, or by third parties unrelated to us.. We face risks relating to litigation.. At any given time, we are subject to claims and actions incidental to the operation of our business. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If a plaintiff were successful in a claim against us, we could be faced with the payment of a material sum of money, and we may not be insured for such a loss. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our financial condition may be adversely impacted by legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of our employees or customers. In recent years, a number of hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination, accessibility and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits in the future may be instituted against us, and we may incur material damages and expenses, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, in recent years there has been increasing activity by patent holding companies (so-called patent \"trolls\") that do not use technology but whose sole business is to enforce patents for monetary gain against companies in a wide variety of businesses and industries. These efforts typically involve proposing licenses in exchange for a substantial sum of money and may also include the threat or actual initiation of litigation for that purpose. Any such litigation can be quite costly to defend, even if infringement is unsubstantiated or speculative. We have been threatened with one such claim and two claims have actually been filed against us. Each claim is related to separate technology, but we believe that each such technology is non-proprietary. Both filed claims have been resolved. If we are ultimately found to have violated a patent, our operations could be negatively impacted and/or we might be subject to substantial financial penalties, licensing fees and attorneys' fees. It is not possible to predict the potential impact on our business and operations of any future claims of this type that may be asserted against us.. 20. Washington law contains provisions that could deter takeover attempts.. Our company is incorporated in the State of Washington and subject to Washington state law. The Washington State Anti­takeover Act could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, one statutory provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction, such as a merger, with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (which shareholder, under the statute, would be considered an \"acquiring person\") for a period of five years following the time that such shareholder becomes an acquiring person.. 21"
