[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, operations and financial condition. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. This section does not describe all risks applicable to our business, and we intend it only as a summary of certain material factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of the common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we are unable to resolve our professional and general liability actions on terms acceptable to us, then it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. The Company is a defendant in various legal actions and administrative proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, including claims that the services the Company provided during the time it operated skilled nursing facilities resulted in injury or death to former patients. Although the Company settles cases from time to time if settlement is advantageous to the Company, the Company vigorously defends any matter in which it believes the claims lack merit and the Company has a reasonable chance to prevail at trial or in arbitration. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and there is risk in the Company's strategy of aggressively defending these cases. There is no assurance that the outcomes of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.. The Company is a defendant in 37 professional and general liability actions commenced on behalf of former patients.  These actions generally seek unspecified compensatory and punitive damages for former patients who were allegedly injured or died due to professional negligence or understaffing while patients of facilities operated by the Company.  Of these 37 actions, the Company reached a settlement in principle with respect to 25 of such actions as discussed under Part I, Item 3., \"Legal Proceedings.\"  Of the remaining 12 actions not subject to the settlement in principle, two of such actions are covered by insurance, except that any award of punitive damages would be excluded from such coverage.. The Company has self-insured against professional and general liability claims since it discontinued its healthcare operations in connection with its Transition. The Company has established a self-insurance reserve with respect to the pending actions included within \"Accrued expenses and other\" in the Company's consolidated balance sheets, of $5.1 million and $6.9 million at December 31, 2017, and December 31, 2016, respectively. Additionally, at December 31, 2017, $0.2 million was reserved in \"Other liabilities\" and $0.5 million in \"Accounts payable\" in the Company's consolidated balance sheet. See Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8., \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\"  Also see \"Critical Accounting Policies - Self Insurance Reserve\" and \"Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Requirements\" in Part II, Item 7., \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". The Company believes that most of the professional and general liability actions are defensible and intends to defend them through final judgement, unless settlement is more advantageous to the Company. Accordingly, the self-insurance reserve primarily reflects the Company's estimate of settlement amounts for the pending actions, as appropriate, and legal costs of settling or litigating the pending actions, as applicable.. Because the self-insurance reserve is based on estimates, the amount of the self-insurance reserve may not be sufficient to cover the settlement amounts actually incurred in settling the pending actions, or the legal costs actually incurred in settling or litigating the pending actions. The amount of the self-insurance reserve may increase, perhaps by a material amount, in any given period, particularly if the Company determines that it has probable exposure in one or more actions. If we are unable to resolve the pending actions on terms acceptable to us, then it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future.. 18. Our leases with tenants comprise our rental revenue and any failure, inability or unwillingness by these tenants to satisfy their obligations under our agreements could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our business depends upon our tenants meeting their obligations to us, including their obligations to pay rent, maintain certain insurance coverage, pay real estate and other taxes and maintain and repair the leased properties. We cannot assure you that these tenants will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their respective obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by these tenants to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any failure by these tenants to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputation and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our tenants have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that our tenants will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations.. We depend on affiliates of C.R Management and Beacon Health Management for a significant portion of our revenues and any inability or unwillingness by such entities to satisfy their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our 27 properties (excluding the three facilities that are managed by us) are operated by a total of 27 separate tenants, with each of our tenants being affiliated with one of six local or regionally-focused operators. We refer to our tenants who are affiliated with the same operator as a group of affiliated tenants. Each of our operators operate (through a group of affiliated tenants) between two and eight of our facilities, with our most significant operators, C.R Management and Beacon Health Management, each operating (through a group of affiliated tenants) eight and seven facilities, respectively. We, therefore depend, on tenants who are affiliated with C.R Management and Beacon Health Management for a significant portion of our revenues. We cannot assure you that the tenants affiliated with C.R Management and Beacon Health Management will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy their obligations under the applicable leases and subleases, and any inability or unwillingness by such tenants to do so could have a material adverse effect on us.. A prolonged economic slowdown could adversely impact the results of operations of our tenants, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us.. We believe the risks associated with our investments will be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession (such as the most recent recession) due to the adverse impact caused by various factors, including inflation, deflation, increased unemployment, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a distressed real estate market, market volatility and weakened business and consumer confidence. This difficult operating environment caused by an economic slowdown or recession could have an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants to maintain occupancy rates, which could harm their financial condition. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses by our tenants could adversely affect our income from investments in our portfolio.. Increased competition, as well as increased operating costs, could result in lower revenues for some of our tenants and may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.. The long-term care industry is highly competitive, and we expect that it will become more competitive in the future. Our tenants are competing with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. Our tenants compete on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a facility, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding areas. We cannot be certain that the tenants of all of our facilities will be able to achieve occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Our tenants may encounter increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract patients or residents or expand their businesses and, therefore, affect their ability to make their lease payments.. In addition, the market for qualified nurses, healthcare professionals and other key personnel is highly competitive, and our tenants may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Increases in labor costs due to higher wages and greater benefits required to attract and retain qualified healthcare personnel incurred by our tenants could affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. This situation could be particularly acute in certain states that have enacted legislation establishing minimum staffing requirements.. 19. Disasters and other adverse events may seriously harm our business.. Our facilities and our business may suffer harm as a result of natural or man-made disasters such as storms, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, terrorist attacks and other conditions. The impact, or impending threat, of such events may require that our tenants evacuate one or more facilities, which could be costly and would involve risks, including potentially fatal risks, for their patients. The impact of disasters and similar events is inherently uncertain. Such events could harm our tenants' patients and employees, severely damage or destroy one or more of our facilities, harm our tenants' business, reputation and financial performance, or otherwise cause our tenants' businesses to suffer in ways that we currently cannot predict.. A severe cold and flu season, epidemics, or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the occupancy of our tenants' facilities.. Our and our tenants' revenues are dependent upon occupancy. It is impossible to predict the severity of the cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread illnesses. The occupancy of our skilled nursing and assisted living facilities could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu season, an epidemic, or any other widespread illness. Such a decrease could affect the operating income of our tenants and the ability of our tenants to make payments to us.. The bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration of our tenants could limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rents or require us to find new tenants.. We are exposed to the risk that a distressed tenant may not be able to meet its obligations to us or other third parties. This risk is heightened during a period of economic or political instability. We are also exposed to increased risk in situations where we lease multiple properties to a single tenant (or affiliated tenants) under a master lease, as a tenant failure or default could reduce or eliminate rental revenue from multiple properties. If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of their leases, then we may be forced to modify the leases in ways that are unfavorable to us. Alternatively, the failure of a tenant to perform under a lease could require us to declare a default, repossess the property, find a suitable replacement tenant, hire third-party managers to operate the property or sell the property. There is no assurance that we would be able to lease a property on substantially equivalent or better terms than the prior lease, or at all, find another qualified tenant, successfully reposition the property for other uses or sell the property on terms that are favorable to us. It may be more difficult to find a replacement tenant for a healthcare property than it would be to find a replacement tenant for a general commercial property due to the specialized nature of the business. Even if we are able to find a suitable replacement tenant for a property, transfers of operations of skilled nursing facilities and assisted living facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations, which may affect our ability to successfully transition a property.. If any lease expires or is terminated, then we could be responsible for all of the operating expenses for that property until it is leased again or sold. If a significant number of our properties are unleased, then our operating expenses could increase significantly. Any significant increase in our operating costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Furthermore, to the extent we operate such property for an indeterminate amount of time, we would be subject to the various risks our tenants assume as operators and potentially fail to qualify as a REIT in any given year.. 20. Although each of our lease agreements typically provides us with, or will provide us with, the right to terminate, evict a tenant, foreclose on our collateral, demand immediate payment and exercise other remedies upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of a tenant, the law relating to bankruptcy as codified and enacted as Title 11 of the United States Code (the \"Bankruptcy Code\") would limit or, at a minimum, delay our ability to collect unpaid pre-bankruptcy rents and to pursue other remedies against a bankrupt tenant. A bankruptcy filing by one of our tenants would typically prevent us from collecting unpaid pre-bankruptcy rents or evicting the tenant absent approval of the bankruptcy court. The Bankruptcy Code provides a tenant with the option to assume or reject an unexpired lease within certain specified periods of time. Generally, a lessee is required to pay all rent that becomes payable between the date of its bankruptcy filing and the date of the assumption or rejection of the lease (although such payments will likely be delayed as a result of the bankruptcy filing). Any tenant that chooses to assume its lease with us must cure all monetary defaults existing under the lease (including payment of unpaid pre-bankruptcy rents) and provide adequate assurance of its ability to perform its future obligations under the lease. Any tenant that opts to reject its lease with us would face a claim by us for unpaid and future rents payable under the lease, but such claim would be subject to a statutory \"cap\" and would generally result in a recovery substantially less than the face value of such claim. Although the tenant's rejection of the lease would permit us to recover possession of the leased facility, we would likely face losses, costs and delays associated with re-leasing the facility to a new tenant.. Several other factors could impact our rights under leases with bankrupt tenants. First, the tenant could seek to assign its lease with us to a third party. The Bankruptcy Code generally disregards anti-assignment provisions in leases to permit the assignment of unexpired leases to third parties (provided all monetary defaults under the lease are cured and the third party can demonstrate its ability to perform its obligations under the lease). Second, in instances in which we have entered into a master lease agreement with a tenant that operates more than one facility, the bankruptcy court could determine that the master lease was comprised of separate, divisible leases (each of which could be separately assumed or rejected), rather than a single, integrated lease (which would have to be assumed or rejected in its entirety). Finally, the bankruptcy court could recharacterize our lease agreement as a disguised financing arrangement, which could require us to receive bankruptcy court approval to foreclose or pursue other remedies with respect to the facility.. In 2016, New Beginnings and its affiliates (including a former tenant of the Company), who operated the Oceanside Facility, the Savannah Beach Facility and the Jeffersonville Facility, filed petitions to reorganize their finances under the Bankruptcy Code. We give no assurance that our current tenants will not undergo bankruptcy, insolvency or financial deterioration that could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we must replace any of our tenants, we might be unable to rent the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current term. If any of our triple-net leases are not renewed, we would attempt to rent those properties to another tenant. In addition, following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant in default, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant. We also might not be successful in identifying suitable replacements or entering into leases or other arrangements with new tenants on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all, and we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate and bed taxes, and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. In addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. In the event of non-renewal or a tenant default, our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable replacement tenant could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings. Our ability to locate and attract suitable replacement tenants also could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual restrictions on use of the properties, and we may be forced to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default and could have a material adverse effect on us.. 21. Moreover, in connection with certain of our properties, we have entered into intercreditor agreements with the tenants' lenders or tri-party agreements with our lenders. Our ability to exercise remedies under the applicable leases or to reposition the applicable properties may be significantly delayed or limited by the terms of the intercreditor agreement or tri-party agreement. Any such delay or limit on our rights and remedies could adversely affect our ability to mitigate our losses and could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our tenants may be subject to significant legal actions that could result in their increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.. As is typical in the long term care industry, our tenants may be subject to claims for damages relating to the services that they provide. We give no assurance that the insurance coverage maintained by our tenants will cover all claims made against them or continue to be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some states, insurance coverage for the risk of punitive damages may not, in certain cases, be available to operators due to state law prohibitions or limitations of availability. As a result, our tenants doing business in these states may be liable for punitive damage awards that are either not covered by their insurance or are in excess of their insurance policy limits.. We also believe that there has been, and will continue to be, an increase in governmental investigations of long-term care providers, particularly in the area of Medicare/Medicaid false claims, as well as an increase in enforcement actions resulting from these investigations. The OIG, the enforcement arm of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, formulates a formal work plan each year for nursing centers. The OIG's most recent work plan indicates that, among other things, the OIG's investigative and review focus in 2017 for nursing facilities will include complaint investigations by state agencies, unreported incidents of potential abuse and neglect, reimbursement, background checks, compliance with prospective payment requirements, and potentially avoidable hospitalizations. We cannot predict the likelihood, scope or outcome of any such investigations and reviews with respect to our facilities or our tenants. Insurance is not available to our tenants to cover such losses. Any adverse determination in a legal proceeding or governmental investigation, whether currently asserted or arising in the future, could have a material adverse effect on a tenant's financial condition. If a tenant is unable to obtain or maintain insurance coverage, if judgments are obtained in excess of the insurance coverage, if a tenant is required to pay uninsured punitive damages, or if a tenant is subject to an uninsurable government enforcement action, then such tenant could be exposed to substantial additional liabilities. Such liabilities could adversely affect a tenant's ability to meet its obligations to us.. In addition, we may, in some circumstances, be named as a defendant in litigation involving the services provided by our tenants. Although we generally have no involvement in the services provided by our tenants, and our standard lease agreements generally require (or will require) our tenants to indemnify us and carry insurance to cover us in certain cases, a significant judgment against us in such litigation could exceed our and our tenants' insurance coverage, which would require us to make payments to cover any such judgment.. Our tenants may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute.. Our tenants who engage in business with the federal government may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. See \"Governmental Regulation-Healthcare Regulation\" in Part I, Item 1, \"Business\" in this Annual Report. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits. If any of these lawsuits were brought against our tenants, such suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our tenants' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and on their ability to satisfy their obligations under our leases, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us.. 22. The amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by policies maintained by our tenants may not adequately insure against losses.. We maintain or require in our leases that our tenants maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations. Although we regularly review the amount and scope of insurance maintained by our tenants and believe the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry, we cannot assure you that our tenants will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance. We also cannot assure you that our tenants will maintain the required coverages, that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance under our leases, that such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the policies maintained will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we make any guaranty as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite the policies maintained by our tenants.. For various reasons, including to reduce and manage costs, many healthcare companies utilize different organizational and corporate structures coupled with captive programs that may provide less insurance coverage than a traditional insurance policy. Companies that insure any part of their general and professional liability risks through their own captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future cost of general and professional liability through actuarial studies that rely primarily on historical data. However, due to the rise in the number and severity of professional claims against healthcare providers, these actuarial studies may underestimate the future cost of claims, and reserves for future claims may not be adequate to cover the actual cost of those claims. As a result, the tenants of our properties who self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses, which could materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. If tenants of our properties decide to implement a captive or self-insurance program, any large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses incurred could have a material adverse effect on us.. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur substantial liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property. Following the occurrence of such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future.. Failure by our tenants to comply with various local, state and federal government regulations may adversely impact their ability to make lease payments to us.. Healthcare operators are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those described below, that are subject to frequent and substantial changes (sometimes applied retroactively) resulting from new legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. Although we cannot accurately predict the ultimate timing or effect of these changes, such changes could have a material effect on our tenants' costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by both government and other third-party payors. The failure of any of our tenants to comply with these laws, requirements and regulations could adversely affect its ability to meet its obligations to us.. •   Healthcare Reform. The Healthcare Reform Law, which was signed into law in March 2010, represents the most comprehensive change to healthcare benefits since the inception of the Medicare program in 1965 and affects reimbursement for governmental programs, private insurance and employee welfare benefit plans in various ways. Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Law expands Medicaid eligibility, requires most individuals to have health insurance, establishes new regulations for health plans, creates health insurance exchanges, and modifies certain payment systems to encourage more cost-effective care and a reduction of inefficiencies and waste, including through new tools to address fraud and abuse. We cannot accurately predict the impact of the Healthcare Reform Law on our tenants or their ability to meet their obligations to us.. •   Reimbursement; Medicare and Medicaid. A significant portion of the revenue of the healthcare operators to which we lease, or will lease, properties is, or will be, derived from governmentally-funded reimbursement programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid. Failure to maintain certification in these programs would result in a loss of funding from such programs and could negatively impact an operator's ability to meet its obligations to us.. 23. •   Quality of Care Initiatives. CMS has implemented a number of initiatives focused on the quality of care provided by nursing homes that could affect our tenants. Any unsatisfactory rating of our tenants under any rating system promulgated by the CMS could result in the loss of patients or residents or lower reimbursement rates, which could adversely impact their revenues and our business.. •   Licensing and Certification. Healthcare operators are subject to various federal, state and local licensing and certification laws and regulations, including laws and regulations under Medicare and Medicaid requiring operators to comply with extensive standards governing operations. Many of our properties may require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval from a state agency. Governmental agencies administering these laws and regulations regularly inspect facilities and investigate complaints. Failure to obtain any required licensure, certification, or CON, the loss or suspension of any required licensure, certification, or CON, or any violations or deficiencies with respect to relevant operating standards may require a facility to cease operations or result in ineligibility for reimbursement until the necessary licenses, certifications, or CON are obtained or reinstated or until any such violations or deficiencies are cured. In such event, our revenues from these facilities could be reduced or eliminated for an extended period of time or permanently.. •   Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations. There are various federal and state civil and criminal laws and regulations governing a wide array of healthcare provider referrals, relationships and arrangements, including laws and regulations prohibiting fraud by healthcare providers. In addition, the Stark Law broadly defines the scope of prohibited physician referrals under federal health care programs to providers with which they have ownership or other financial arrangements. Many states have adopted, or are considering, legislative proposals similar to these laws, some of which extend beyond federal health care programs, to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral of patients and physician referrals regardless of the source of the payment for the care. Many of these complex laws raise issues that have not been clearly interpreted by the relevant governmental authorities and courts. We cannot assure you that governmental officials charged with responsibility for enforcing the provisions of these laws and regulations will not assert that one or more of our arrangements are in violation of the provisions of such laws and regulations. In addition, federal and state governments are devoting increasing attention and resources to anti-fraud initiatives against healthcare providers. The violation of any of these laws or regulations by any of our tenants may result in the imposition of fines or other penalties, including exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and all other federal and state healthcare programs. Such fines or penalties could jeopardize a tenant's ability to make lease payments to us or to continue operating its facility.. •   Privacy Laws. Healthcare operators are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the privacy and security of patient health information. These laws and regulations require operators to expend the requisite resources to protect and secure patient health information, including the funding of costs associated with technology upgrades. Operators found in violation of these laws may face large penalties. In addition, compliance with an operator's notification requirements in the event of a breach of unsecured protected health information could cause reputational harm to an operator's business. Such penalties and damaged reputation could adversely affect a tenant's ability to meet its obligations to us.. •   Other Laws. Other federal, state and local laws and regulations affect how our tenants conduct their business. We cannot accurately predict the effect that the costs of complying with these laws may have on the revenues of our tenants and, thus, their ability to meet their obligations to us.. •   Legislative and Regulatory Developments. Each year, legislative and regulatory proposals are introduced at the federal, state and local levels that, if adopted, would result in major changes to the healthcare system in addition to those described herein. We cannot accurately predict whether any proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, what effect (if any) these proposals would have on our tenants or our business.. 24. Our tenants may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement.. Regulation of the long-term healthcare industry generally has intensified over time both in the number and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations. This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-facility providers. Federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include those relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, data privacy and security, and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by healthcare providers. In addition, changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments have resulted in an increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties. We are unable to predict the scope of future federal, state and local regulations and legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation, and any changes in the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, operators and managers, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us.. If our tenants fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties, they could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to their operations. Our tenants also could face increased costs related to healthcare regulation, such as the Healthcare Reform Law, or be forced to expend considerable resources in responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants and the results of operations of our properties operated or managed by those entities could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us.. The impact of healthcare reform legislation on our tenants cannot be accurately predicted.. The health care industry in the United States is subject to fundamental changes due to ongoing health care reform efforts and related political, economic and regulatory influences. Notably, the Healthcare Reform Law resulted in expanded health care coverage to millions of previously uninsured people beginning in 2014 and has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. health care system. To help fund this expansion, the Healthcare Reform Law outlines certain reductions in Medicare reimbursements for various health care providers, including skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain other changes to Medicare payment methodologies.. Several provisions of the Healthcare Reform Law affect Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities, including provisions changing Medicare payment methodology and implementing value-based purchasing and payment bundling. Although we cannot accurately predict how all of these provisions may be implemented, or the effect any such implementation would have on our tenants or our business, the Healthcare Reform Law could result in decreases in payments to our tenants, increase our tenants' costs or otherwise adversely affect the financial condition of our tenants, thereby negatively impacting their ability to meet their obligations to us.. The Healthcare Reform Law also requires skilled nursing facilities to have a compliance and ethics program that is effective in preventing and detecting criminal, civil and administrative violations and in promoting quality of care. If our tenants fall short in their compliance and ethics programs and quality assurance and performance improvement programs, then their reputations and ability to attract residents could be adversely affected.. This comprehensive health care legislation has resulted and will continue to result in extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities, and also may be altered or amended. It is difficult to predict the full impact of the Healthcare Reform Law due to the complexity of the law and implementing regulations, as well our inability to foresee how CMS and other participants in the health care industry will respond to the choices available to them under the law. We also cannot accurately predict whether any new or pending legislative proposals will be adopted or, if adopted, what effect, if any, these proposals would have on our tenants' business. Similarly, while we can anticipate that some of the rulemaking that will be promulgated by regulatory authorities will affect our tenants and the manner in which they are reimbursed by the federal health care programs, we cannot accurately predict today the impact of those regulations on their business and therefore on our business. The provisions of the legislation and other regulations implementing the provisions of the Healthcare Reform Law may increase our tenants' costs or otherwise adversely affect the financial condition of our tenants, thereby negatively impacting their ability to meet their obligations to us.. 25. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Healthcare Reform Law was enacted that also may impact our business. For instance, on April 1, 2014, President Obama signed the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, which, among other things, requires CMS to measure, track, and publish readmission rates of skilled nursing facilities by 2017 and implement a value-based purchasing program for skilled nursing facilities (the \"SNF VBP Program\") by October 1, 2018. The SNF VBP Program will increase Medicare reimbursement rates for skilled nursing facilities that achieve certain levels of quality performance measures to be developed by CMS, relative to other facilities. The value-based payments authorized by the SNF VBP Program will be funded by reducing Medicare payment for all skilled nursing facilities by 2% and redistributing up to 70% of those funds to high-performing skilled nursing facilities. If Medicare reimbursement provided to our tenants is reduced under the SNF VBP Program, that reduction may have an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants to meet their obligations to us.. Our tenants depend on reimbursement from governmental and other third-party payors, and reimbursement rates from such payors may be reduced.. Changes in the reimbursement rate or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or the implementation of other measures to reduce reimbursements for services provided by our tenants could result in a substantial reduction in the revenues and operating margins of our tenants. Significant limits on the scopes of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants, which could cause their revenues to decline and could negatively impact their ability to meet their obligations to us.. Additionally, net revenue realizable under third-party payor agreements can change after examination and retroactive adjustment by payors during the claims settlement processes or as a result of post-payment audits. Payors may disallow requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable or reasonable, additional documentation is necessary or certain services were not covered or were not medically necessary. New legislative and regulatory proposals could impose further limitations on government and private payments to healthcare providers. In some cases, states have enacted or are considering enacting measures designed to reduce Medicaid expenditures and to make changes to private healthcare insurance. No assurance is given that adequate third-party payor reimbursement levels will continue to be available for the services provided by our tenants.. The Healthcare Reform Law provides those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage, that became effective January 1, 2014, if certain conditions are met. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the individual mandate of the Healthcare Reform Laws but partially invalidated the expansion of Medicaid. The ruling on Medicaid expansion allows states to elect not to participate in the expansion-and to forego funding for the Medicaid expansion-without losing their existing Medicaid funding. Given that the federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early 2018, roughly three-fifths of the states have expanded Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants' revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. While the federal government paid for approximately 100% of those additional costs from 2014 through 2016, states have been responsible for part of those additional costs since 2017. In light of this, at least one state that has passed legislation to allow the state to expand its Medicaid coverage has included sunset provisions in the legislation that require that the expanded benefits be reduced or eliminated if the federal government's funding for the program is decreased or eliminated, permitting the state to re-visit the issue once it begins to share financial responsibility for the expansion. With increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states that do not include such sunset provisions will pay their share of these additional Medicaid costs and what other health care expenditures could be reduced as a result. A significant reduction in other health care related spending by states to pay for increased Medicaid costs could affect our tenants' revenue streams.. 26. Furthermore, the Supreme Court's decision upholding the constitutionality of the individual healthcare mandate while striking down the provisions linking federal funding of state Medicaid programs with a federally mandated expansion of those programs has contributed to the uncertainty regarding the impact that the law will have on healthcare delivery systems over the next decade. We can expect that federal authorities will continue to implement the law, but because of the Supreme Court's mixed ruling, the implementation will take longer than originally expected, with a commensurate increase in the period of uncertainty regarding the long-term financial impact on the delivery of and payment for healthcare.. A repeal of the Healthcare Reform Law, in whole or in part, may have unforeseen consequences.. It is possible that legislation will be introduced and passed by the Republican-controlled Congress repealing the Healthcare Reform Law in whole or in part and signed into law by President Trump, consistent with statements made by him during his presidential campaign indicating his intention to do so. In the absence of legislation repealing the Healthcare Reform Law, President Trump issued an executive order on October 12, 2017 directing federal agencies to reevaluate regulations and guidance associated with the Healthcare Reform Law. The effects of this executive order are unknown and it is possible that additional executive orders related to the Healthcare Reform Law may be issued. Because of the continued uncertainty about the implementation of the Healthcare Reform Law, including the potential for further legal challenges or repeal of that legislation, we cannot quantify or predict with any certainty the likely impact of the Healthcare Reform Law or its repeal on our tenants and, thus, their ability to meet their obligations to us. We also anticipate that Congress, state legislatures, and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may in the future propose and adopt legislative or policy changes or implementations affecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare delivery system. We cannot provide assurances as to the ultimate content, timing, or effect of changes, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of any such potential legislative or policy changes on our tenants and, thus, their ability to meet their obligations to us.. Government budget deficits could lead to a reduction in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement.. Many states are focusing on the reduction of expenditures under their Medicaid programs, which may result in a reduction in reimbursement rates for our tenants. These potential reductions could be compounded by the potential for federal cost-cutting efforts that could lead to reductions in reimbursement to our tenants under both the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement to our tenants could reduce the cash flow of our tenants and their ability to make rent payments to us. The need to control Medicaid expenditures may be exacerbated by the potential for increased enrollment in Medicaid due to unemployment and declines in family incomes. Because the Healthcare Reform Law allows states to increase the number of people who are eligible for Medicaid and simplifies enrollment in this program, Medicaid enrollment may significantly increase in the future. Since our tenants' profit margins with respect to Medicaid patients are generally relatively low, more than modest reductions in Medicaid reimbursement and an increase in the number of Medicaid patients could place some tenants in financial distress, which, in turn, could adversely affect us. If funding for Medicare or Medicaid is reduced, then it could have a material adverse effect on our tenants' results of operations and financial condition, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including insurance companies and the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on our tenants.. Our tenants rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare (both traditional Medicare and \"managed\" Medicare/Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues. Federal and state legislators and regulators have adopted or proposed various cost-containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare providers, and budget crises and financial shortfalls have caused states to implement or consider Medicaid rate freezes or cuts. Private third-party payors also have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that our tenants who currently depend on governmental or private payor reimbursement will be adequately reimbursed for the services they provide. Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed or on reimbursement rates and fees, whether from statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations and audits at such property, or private payor efforts, could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants, which could affect adversely their ability to comply with the terms of our leases and have a material adverse effect on us.. 27. Unforeseen costs associated with the acquisition of new healthcare properties could reduce our profitability.. Our business strategy contemplates future acquisitions that may not prove to be successful. For example, we might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to our acquired healthcare properties, including contingent liabilities, or our newly acquired healthcare properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. Such costs may negatively affect our results of operations.. Our real estate investments are relatively illiquid.. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, all of our owned healthcare properties serve as collateral for our secured debt obligations and may not be readily sold. Additional factors that are specific to our industry also tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. For example, all of our healthcare properties are \"special purpose\" properties that cannot be readily converted into general residential, retail or office use. In addition, transfers of operations of skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities and other healthcare facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. Thus, if the operation of any of our healthcare properties becomes unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements or other factors such that a tenant becomes unable to meet its obligations to us, then the liquidation value of the property may be substantially less, particularly relative to the amount owing on any related mortgage loan, than would be the case if the property were readily adaptable to other uses. Furthermore, the receipt of liquidation proceeds or the replacement of a tenant that has defaulted on its lease could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the tenant with a new tenant licensed to manage the facility. In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. Should such events occur, our revenues would be adversely affected.. As an owner with respect to real property, we may be exposed to possible environmental liabilities.. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner of real property, such as us, may be liable in certain circumstances for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of, or related releases of, certain hazardous or toxic substances at, under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances, including government fines and damages for injuries to persons and adjacent property. Such laws often impose liability regardless of the owner's knowledge of, or responsibility for, the presence or disposal of such substances. As a result, liability may be imposed on the owner in connection with the activities of an operator of the property.. The cost of any required investigation, remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and the owner's liability therefor could exceed the value of the property and the assets of the owner. In addition, the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect an operator's ability to attract additional patients or residents and our ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could negatively impact our revenues.. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive.. Our business is highly competitive, and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. We compete for healthcare facility investments with other healthcare investors, many of which have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our investment criteria. If we cannot identify and purchase a sufficient number of healthcare facilities at favorable prices, or if we are unable to finance such acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if our cost of capital should increase relative to the cost of capital of our competitors, the spread that we realize on our investments may decline if competitive pressures limit or prevent us from charging higher lease rates.. 28. The geographic concentration of our facilities could leave us vulnerable to an economic downturn or adverse regulatory changes in those areas.. Our properties are located in six states, with concentrations in Georgia and Ohio. As a result of this concentration, the conditions of local economies and real estate markets, changes in governmental rules, regulations and reimbursement rates or criteria, changes in demographics, state funding, acts of nature and other factors that may result in a decrease in demand and reimbursement for skilled nursing services in these states could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our tenants' revenue, costs and results of operations, which may affect their ability to meet their obligations to us.. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We are dependent on our management team, and our future success depends largely upon the management experience, skill, and contacts of our management and the loss of any of our key management team could harm our business. If we lose the services of any or all of our management team, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. During 2017, the Company experienced the departure of certain key management personnel.  As a result, the Company must now focus time and resources on recruiting new members for its executive management team. Changes in the Company's executive management team may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, the Company's business, and any additional changes to the executive management team could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to manage and grow its business effectively.  Any such disruption or uncertainty or difficulty in efficiently and effectively filling key roles could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our directors and officers substantially control all major decisions.. Our directors and officers beneficially own a significant number of shares of our outstanding common stock. Therefore, our directors and officers will be able to influence major corporate actions required to be voted on by shareholders, such as the election of directors, the amendment of our charter documents and the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, reorganizations, sales of substantially all of our assets and liquidation. Furthermore, our directors will be able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and incur indebtedness. This control may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.. Risks Related to Potential REIT Election. As previously discussed, the Board is in the process of evaluating the feasibility of the Company in the future qualifying for and electing status as a REIT under the Code. If the Board determines for any future taxable year, after further consideration and evaluation, that the Company qualifies as a REIT under the Code and that electing status as a REIT under the Code would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, then there would be certain risks we would face if we subsequently elected REIT status, including the risks set forth below under this \"- Risks Related to REIT Election\" section.  The applicability of these risks assumes that: (i) we would qualify in a future taxable year as a REIT under the Code; (ii) the Board determines that electing status as a REIT under the Code is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders; and (iii) we subsequently elect status as a REIT under the Code.. 29. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to liquidate assets or hinder our ability to pursue otherwise attractive asset acquisition opportunities.. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we would need to continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature and diversification of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. For example, to qualify as a REIT, we would need to ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and \"real estate assets\" (as defined in the Code), including certain mortgage loans and securities. The remainder of our investments (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by any taxable REIT subsidiary (\"TRS\")) generally could not include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities issued by a TRS) could consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total assets could be represented by securities of one or more TRSs.  If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code and subsequently we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, then we would need to correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we could be required to liquidate assets.. In addition to the asset tests set forth above, to qualify and be subject to tax as a REIT, we would generally be required, after the utilization of any available federal net operating loss carryforwards, to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain) each year to our shareholders. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, any determination as to the timing or amount of future dividends would be based on a number of factors, including investment opportunities and the availability of our existing federal net operating loss carryforwards. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, and to the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (after the application of available federal net operating loss carryforwards, if any), we would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we would be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders for a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code. These distribution requirements could hinder our ability to pursue otherwise attractive asset acquisition opportunities. Furthermore, if we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, our ability to compete for acquisition opportunities in domestic markets may be adversely affected if we were to need, or require, the target company to comply with certain REIT requirements. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income, amounts available for distribution to our shareholders and amounts available for making payments on our indebtedness.. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, and we fail to qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, to the extent we have REIT taxable income and have utilized our federal net operating loss carryforwards, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our potential REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT would depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we have not and will not obtain independent appraisals.. 30. If we were to qualify and elect as a REIT under the Code for a future taxable year, and subsequently we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, to the extent we have taxable income and have utilized our federal net operating loss carryforwards, we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income.  Any resulting corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Code, we also would be disqualified from re-electing to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT (after having elected as a REIT under the Code). If we were to fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT after having elected as a REIT under the Code, we may be required to borrow additional funds or liquidate assets to pay any additional tax liability and, therefore, funds available for investment and making payments on our indebtedness would be reduced.. We may be required to borrow funds, sell assets, or raise equity to satisfy REIT distribution requirements.. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, from time to time thereafter we might generate REIT taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. If we were to not have other funds available in those situations, we would need to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity, even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, sales or offerings, to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs and our leverage or require us to distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions or stock repurchases. Thus, if we were to elect as a REIT under the Code: (i) continued compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our stock; and (ii) continued compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may increase the financing we would need to fund capital expenditures, future growth, or expansion initiatives, which would increase our total leverage.. Covenants specified in the instruments governing our indebtedness may limit our ability to make required REIT distributions.. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, restrictive loan covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness may prevent us from satisfying REIT distribution requirements and, after such election, we could fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT.  If these covenant limitations were not to jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT but nevertheless were to prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, then we would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, and potentially the nondeductible 4% excise tax, on the undistributed amounts.. Our payment of cash distributions in the future is not guaranteed and the amount of any future cash distributions may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the value of our stock.. REITs are required to distribute annually at least 90% of their REIT taxable income (determined before the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain). We had approximately $66.8 million in federal net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 2017. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, we would be able to use, at our discretion, these federal net operating loss carryforwards to offset our REIT taxable income, and thus the required distributions to shareholders may be reduced or eliminated until such time as our federal net operating loss carryforwards have been fully utilized.  However, pursuant to the recently enacted Tax Reform Act referenced below, our ability to offset any federal net operating losses arising from our taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, against any future REIT taxable income would be limited.. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, the amount of future distributions would be determined, from time to time, by the Board to balance our goal of increasing shareholder value and retaining sufficient cash to implement our current capital allocation policy, which includes portfolio improvement and potentially stock repurchases (when we believe our stock price is below its intrinsic value. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, the actual timing and amount of distributions would be as determined and declared by the Board and would depend on, among other factors, our federal net operating loss carryforwards, our financial condition, earnings, debt covenants and other possible uses of such funds.. 31. Furthermore, we may only pay dividends on our capital stock if we have funds legally available to pay dividends and such payment is not restricted or prohibited by Georgia law, the terms of shares of our capital stock with higher priority with respect to dividends and the terms of any other documents governing our indebtedness. See \" - Risks Related to Our Stock  -  There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future.\". Certain of our business activities may be subject to corporate level income tax, which would reduce our cash flows, and would have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities.. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code: (i) we may be subject to certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and assets, taxes on any undistributed income and state, local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes; (ii) we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain qualification for taxation as a REIT; and (iii) we may incur a 100% excise tax on transactions with a TRS if they are not conducted on an arm's length basis. Any of these taxes would decrease our earnings and our available cash.. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, any TRS assets and operations we may have would continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income taxes in the jurisdictions in which those assets and operations are located, which taxes would decrease our earnings and our available cash. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, we would also be subject to a federal corporate level tax at the highest regular corporate rate (currently 21%) on the gain recognized from a sale of assets occurring during the initial five-year period of time for which we are a REIT, up to the amount of the built-in gain that existed on January 1 of the year for which we elect as a REIT under the Code, which would be based on the fair market value of those assets in excess of our tax basis in those assets as of such date. Gain from a sale of an asset occurring after the specified period ends would not be subject to this corporate level tax.. Use of any TRSs we may have may cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT.. If we were to elect as a REIT under the Code, the net income of any TRSs we may have would not be required to be distributed to us, and such undistributed TRS income would generally not subject to our REIT distribution requirements. However, if we were to elect as a REIT under the Code and if the accumulation of cash or reinvestment of significant earnings in any TRSs we may have would cause the fair market value of our securities in those entities, taken together with other non-qualifying assets, to represent more than 25% of the fair market value of our assets, or causes the fair market value of such TRS securities alone to represent more than 20% of the value of our total assets, in each case, as determined for REIT asset testing purposes, we would, absent timely responsive action, fail to qualify as a REIT.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to the tax laws or interpretations thereof, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, U.S. Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to our investors and us of such qualification.. In addition, recently enacted tax reform legislation (the \"Tax Reform Act\") has resulted in fundamental changes to the Code.  Among the numerous changes included in the Tax Reform Act is a deduction of 20% of ordinary REIT dividends for individual taxpayers for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 through 2025.  The impact of the Tax Reform Act on an investment in our shares, and our ability to qualify for and elect REIT status in any future year and the desirability thereof, is uncertain.  We cannot assure you that the Tax Reform Act or any such other changes will not adversely affect the taxation of our shareholders.  Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets.  You are urged to consult with your tax advisor with respect to the impact of the Tax Reform Act on your investment in our shares and the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares.. 32. We do not have any experience operating as a REIT, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our stock and ability to satisfy debt service obligations.. We have not actually operated as a REIT previously, and we do not currently qualify as a REIT under the Code.  If we were to qualify and elect as a REIT under the Code in a future taxable year: (i) our pre-REIT operating experience may not be sufficient to enable us to operate successfully as a REIT; and (ii) we will be required to implement substantial control systems and procedures in order to maintain REIT status. As a result, we may incur additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we have not previously incurred, which could be significant, and our management and other personnel may need to devote additional time to comply with these rules and regulations and controls required for continued compliance with the Code. Therefore, if we were to qualify and elect as a REIT under the Code in a future taxable year, our historical combined consolidated financial statements may not be indicative of our future costs and performance as a REIT. If our performance is adversely affected, then it could affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.. The current market price of the common stock may not be indicative of the market price of common stock if we were to elect as a REIT under the Code.. The current market price of the common stock may not be indicative of how the market will value the common stock if we elect as a REIT under the Code in a future taxable year, because of the change in our organization from a taxable C corporation to a REIT.  The stock price of REIT securities have historically been affected by changes in market interest rates as investors evaluate the annual yield from distributions on the entity's common stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments. In addition, if we elect as a REIT under the Code in a future taxable year, the market price of common stock in the future may be potentially affected by the economic and market perception of REIT securities.. Generally, ordinary dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to income from \"qualified dividends\" payable to U.S. shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is currently 20%.  Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates applicable to qualified dividends. Although these rules do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our stock if we were to elect as a REIT under the Code.  However, under the recently enacted Tax Reform Act as referenced above, commencing with taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and continuing through 2025, individual taxpayers may be entitled to claim a deduction in determining their taxable income of 20% of ordinary REIT dividends (dividends other than capital gain dividends and dividends attributable to certain qualified dividend income received by us), which temporarily reduces the effective tax rate on such dividends.. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure. We have substantial indebtedness, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $73.1 million in indebtedness, including current maturities of debt. We may also obtain additional short-term and long-term debt to meet future capital needs, subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. Our substantial amount of debt could have negative consequences to our business. For example, it could:. •   increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business;. •   require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to interest and principal payments on outstanding debt, thereby limiting the availability of cash flow for dividends and other general corporate purposes;. 33. •   require us to maintain certain debt coverage and other financial ratios at specified levels, thereby reducing our financial flexibility;. •   make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;. •   expose us to increases in interest rates for our variable rate debt;. •   limit our ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms, or at all, for working capital, debt service requirements, expansion of our business or other general corporate purposes;. •   limit our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity on the same or more favorable terms, or at all;. •   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. •   limit our ability to make acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise;. •   place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt; and. •   limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity.. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future will depend in part on the satisfaction of the covenants in our debt agreements. If we are unable to satisfy the financial covenants contained in those agreements, or are unable to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, the lenders and other parties to those arrangements could accelerate the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness.. We may not have sufficient liquidity to meet our capital needs.. For the year ended and as of December 31, 2017, we had a net loss of $1.0 million and negative working capital of $14.8 million. At December 31, 2017, we had $1.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, as well as restricted cash of $3.5 million, and $73.1 million in indebtedness, including current maturities of $8.1 million.. We continue to undertake measures to grow our operations and streamline our operations and cost infrastructure by (i) increasing future lease revenue through acquisitions and investments in existing properties; (ii) modifying the terms of existing leases; (iii) refinancing or repaying debt to reduce interest costs and mandatory principal repayments; and (iv) reducing general and administrative expenses.. Management anticipates both access to and receipt of several sources of liquidity, including cash from operations and cash on hand. We have routine ongoing discussions with existing and potential new lenders to refinance current debt on a longer-term basis and, in recent periods, have refinanced short-term acquisition-related debt with traditional long-term mortgage notes, some of which have been executed under government guaranteed lending programs.. In order to satisfy the Company's capital needs, the Company seeks to: (i) refinance debt where possible to obtain more favorable terms; (ii) raise capital through the issuance of debt securities and convertible securities; and (iii) increase operating cash flows through acquisitions. The Company anticipates that these actions, if successful, will provide the opportunity to maintain its liquidity, thereby permitting the Company to better meet its operating and financing obligations. However, there is no guarantee that such actions will be successful.. 34. We rely on external sources of capital to fund our capital needs, and if we encounter difficulty in obtaining such capital, we may not be able to make future investments necessary to grow our business or meet maturing debt commitments.. We rely on external sources of capital, including private or public offerings of debt or equity, the assumption of secured indebtedness, or mortgage financing on a portion of our owned portfolio. If we are unable to obtain needed capital at all or only on unfavorable terms from these sources, we might not be able to make the investments needed to grow our business or to meet our obligations and commitments as they mature. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including the performance of the national and global economies generally; competition in the healthcare industry; issues facing the healthcare industry, including regulations and government reimbursement policies; our tenants' operating costs; the market's perception of our growth potential; the market value of our properties; our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends; on its common stock and preferred stock, if any; and the market price of the shares of our capital stock. We may not be in a position to take advantage of future investment opportunities if we are unable to access capital markets on a timely basis or are only able to obtain financing on unfavorable terms.. In particular, we are subject to risks associated with debt financing, which could negatively impact our business and limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to repay maturing indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital transactions, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay our maturing indebtedness. Furthermore, if we have to pay higher interest rates in connection with a refinancing, the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase, which could reduce our profitability. Moreover, additional debt financing increases the amount of our leverage. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to our shareholders, including affecting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future, and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our results of operations or the economy in general.. Our ability to raise capital through equity sales is dependent, in part, on the market price of our stock, and our failure to meet market expectations with respect to our business could negatively impact the market price of our stock and availability of equity capital.. As with other publicly-traded companies, the availability of equity capital will depend, in part, on the market price of our stock, which, in turn, will depend upon various market conditions and other factors that may change from time to time, including:. •   the extent of investor interest;. •   our financial performance and that of our tenants;. •   general stock and bond market conditions; and. •   other factors such as governmental regulatory action.. Covenants in the agreements evidencing our indebtedness limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations.. The terms of our credit agreements and other agreements evidencing our indebtedness require us to comply with a number of financial and other covenants which may limit management's discretion by restricting our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, and create liens.  Any additional financing we may obtain could contain similar or more restrictive covenants.  Our continued ability to incur indebtedness and conduct our operations is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants.  Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments. Any such breach could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 35. Our assets may be subject to impairment charges.. We periodically, but not less than annually, evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, then we are required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs.. We may change our investment strategies and policies and capital structure.. The Board, without the approval of our shareholders, may alter our investment strategies and policies if it determines that a change is in our shareholders' best interests. The methods of implementing our investment strategies and policies may vary as new investments and financing techniques are developed.. Economic conditions and turbulence in the credit markets may create challenges in securing indebtedness or refinancing our existing indebtedness.. Depressed economic conditions, the availability and cost of credit, turmoil in the mortgage market and depressed real estate markets have in the past contributed, and will in the future contribute, to increased volatility and diminished expectations for real estate markets and the economy as a whole. Significant market disruption and volatility could impact our ability to secure indebtedness or refinance our existing indebtedness.. We are subject to possible conflicts of interest; we have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, transactions with parties that may be considered related parties.. From time to time, we have engaged in various transactions with related parties including Christopher Brogdon, a former director and owner of greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock. See Part III, Item 13, \"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence\" in this Annual Report.. Although we do not believe the potential conflicts have adversely affected, or will adversely affect, our business, others may disagree with this position and litigation could ensue in the future. Our relationships with Mr. Brogdon and other related parties may give rise to litigation, or other issues which could result in substantial costs to us, and a diversion of our resources and management's attention, whether or not any allegations made are substantiated.. Risks Related to the Ownership and Transfer Restrictions. The ownership and transfer restrictions contained in the Charter may prevent or restrict you from acquiring or transferring shares of the common stock.. As a result of the Merger, the Charter contains provisions restricting the ownership and transfer of the common stock. These ownership and transfer restrictions include that, subject to the exceptions, waivers and the constructive ownership rules described in the Charter, no person (including any \"group\" as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\")) may beneficially own, or be deemed to constructively own by virtue of the ownership attribution provisions of the Code, in excess of 9.9% (by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding common stock. The Charter also prohibits, among other things, any person from beneficially or constructively owning shares of common stock to the extent that such ownership would cause the Company to fail to qualify as a REIT by reason of being \"closely held\" under the Code (without regard to whether the ownership interest is held during the last half of a taxable year) or that would cause the Company to otherwise fail to qualify as a REIT. Furthermore, any transfer, acquisition or other event or transaction that would result in common stock being beneficially owned by less than 100 persons (determined without reference to any rules of attribution) will be void ab initio, and the intended transferee shall acquire no rights in such common stock.. These ownership and transfer restrictions could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of us that might involve a premium price for our capital stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.. 36. Risks Related to Our Stock. The price of our stock has fluctuated, and a number of factors may cause the price of our stock to decline.. The market price of our stock has fluctuated and may fluctuate significantly in the future, depending upon many factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. •   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. •   changes in our financial condition, performance and prospects;. •   changes in general economic and market conditions and other external factors;. •   the market price of securities issued by other companies in our industry;. •   announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships or other transactions;. •   press releases or negative publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in healthcare;. •   government action or regulation, including changes in federal, state and local healthcare regulations to which our tenants are subject;. •   changes in financial estimates, our ability to meet those estimates, or recommendations by securities analysts with respect to us or our competitors; and. •   future sales of the common stock, our Series A Preferred Stock or another series of our preferred stock, or debt securities.. In addition, the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock also depends upon:. •   prevailing interest rates, increases in which may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Series A Preferred Stock;. •   trading prices of preferred equity securities issued by other companies in our industry; and. •   the annual yield from distributions on the Series A Preferred Stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments.. Furthermore, the stock market in recent years has experienced sweeping price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. These market fluctuations may also cause the price of our stock to decline.. In the event of fluctuations in the price of our stock, shareholders may be unable to resell shares of our stock at or above the price at which they purchased such shares. Additionally, due to fluctuations in the price of our stock, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on past results as an indication of future performance.. Our common stock ranks junior to our Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends and amounts payable in the event of our liquidation.. Our common stock ranks junior to our Series A Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and amounts payable in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up.  This means that, unless accumulated accrued dividends have been paid or set aside for payment on all outstanding shares of our Series A Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods, no dividends may be declared or paid, or set aside for payment on, our common stock. Likewise, in the event of our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, no distribution of our assets may be made to holders of our common stock until we have paid to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock the applicable liquidation preference plus all accumulated accrued and unpaid dividends.. We suspended dividend payments with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock for the fourth quarter 2017 and the first quarter 2018 dividend periods.  We plan to revisit the dividend payment policy with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock in the second quarter of 2018.  See Part II, Item 7., \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" of this Annual Report.  As a result, the value of your investment in our common stock may suffer if sufficient funds are not available to first satisfy our obligations to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock in the event of our liquidation.. 37. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future.. We are a holding company, and we have no significant operations. We rely primarily on dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries to us so we may, among other things, pay dividends on our capital stock, if and to the extent declared by the Board. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other distributions to us depends on their earnings and may be restricted in the future by the terms of certain agreements governing their indebtedness. If our subsidiaries are in default under such agreements, then they may not pay dividends or make other distributions to us.. In addition, we may only pay dividends on our capital stock if we have funds legally available to pay dividends and such payment is not restricted or prohibited by law, the terms of any shares with higher priority with respect to dividends or any documents governing our indebtedness. We are restricted by Georgia law from paying dividends on our capital stock if we are not able to pay our debts as they become due in the normal course of business or if our total assets would be less than the sum of our total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed to satisfy preferential rights upon dissolution. In addition, no dividends may be declared or paid on our common stock unless all accumulated accrued and unpaid dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock have been, or contemporaneously are, declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof is set apart for payments, for all past dividend periods. In addition, future debt, contractual covenants or arrangements that we or our subsidiaries enter into may restrict or prevent future dividend payments.. As such, we could become unable, on a temporary or permanent basis, to pay dividends on our stock, including our common stock and our Series A Preferred Stock.  The payment of any future dividends on our stock will be at the discretion of the Board and will depend, among other things, on the earnings and results of operations of our subsidiaries, their ability to pay dividends and make other distributions to us under agreements governing their indebtedness, our financial condition and capital requirements, any debt service requirements and any other factors the Board deems relevant.. We suspended dividend payments with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock for the fourth quarter 2017 and the first quarter 2018 dividend periods.  We plan to revisit the dividend payment policy with respect to our Series A Preferred Stock in the second quarter of 2018.  See Part II, Item 7., \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" of this Annual Report.  As a result of this dividend suspension, no dividends may be declared or paid on the common stock until all accumulated accrued and unpaid dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock have been, or contemporaneously are, declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof is set apart for payment, for all past dividend periods.. The costs of being publicly owned may strain our resources and impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"). The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources and have required us, and may in the future require us, to hire additional accounting and financial resources with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. In addition, failure to maintain such internal controls could result in us being unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities or cause us to be late in the filing of required reports or financial results. Any of the foregoing events could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 38. Provisions in Georgia law and our charter documents may delay or prevent a change in control or management that shareholders may consider desirable.. Various provisions of the Georgia Business Corporation Code (the \"GBCC\") and the Charter and Bylaws may inhibit changes in control not approved by the Board and may have the effect of depriving our investors of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of the common stock and other securities in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions.  As a result, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the market price of the common stock and other securities. These provisions include:. •   the ownership and transfer restrictions contained in the Charter with respect to the common stock;. •   a requirement that special meetings of shareholders be called by the Board, the Chairman, the President, or the holders of shares with voting power of at least 25%;. •   advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations;. •   a requirement that directors may only be removed for cause and then only by an affirmative vote of at least a majority of all votes entitled to be cast in the election of such directors;. •   a prohibition of shareholder action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent;. •   availability of \"blank check\" preferred stock; and. •   a charter \"constituency\" clause authorizing (but not requiring) our directors to consider, in discharging their duties as directors, the effects of the Company's actions on other interests and persons in addition to our shareholders.. In addition, the Company has elected in the Bylaws to be subject to the \"fair price\" and \"business combination\" provisions of the GBCC. The business combination provisions generally restrict us from engaging in certain business combination transactions with any \"interested shareholder\" (as defined in the GBCC) for a period of five years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder unless certain designated conditions are met. The fair price provisions generally restricts us from entering into certain business combinations with an interested shareholder unless the transaction is unanimously approved by the continuing directors who must constitute at least three members of the Board at the time of such approval; or the transaction is recommended by at least two-thirds of the continuing directors and approved by a majority of the shareholders excluding the interested shareholder.. The Board can use these and other provisions to prevent, delay or discourage a change in control of the Company or a change in our management. Any such delay or prevention of a change in control or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a takeover transaction pursuant to which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the current market price of the common stock and other securities, which in turn may limit the price investors might be willing to pay for such securities.. Risks Related to the Delisting of Our Securities. If we fail to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of the NYSE American and the NYSE American determines to delist the common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of such securities, impair the value of your investment, adversely affect our ability to raise needed funds and subject us to additional trading restrictions and regulations.. On April 18, 2016, the Company received notice from NYSE Regulation, Inc. (\"NYSE Regulation\") that it was not in compliance with certain NYSE American continued listing standards relating to stockholders' equity. Specifically, the Company was not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(i) (requiring stockholders' equity of $2.0 million or more if an issuer has reported losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two of its three most recent fiscal years), Section 1003(a)(ii) (requiring stockholders' equity of $4.0 million or more if an issuer has reported losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years) and Section 1003(a)(iii) (requiring stockholders' equity of $6.0 million or more if an issuer has reported losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years) of the NYSE American Company Guide, (the \"Company Guide\") and (collectively, the \"Continued Listing Standards\") because the Company had reported a stockholders' deficit of $23.8 million as of December 31, 2015 and net losses for the last five fiscal years.. 39. As a result, the Company became subject to the procedures and requirements of Section 1009 of the Company Guide and was required to submit a plan (a \"Compliance Plan\") by May 18, 2016 describing the actions the Company had taken or would take to regain compliance with the Stockholders' Continued Listing Standards during the period ending October 18, 2017. The Company submitted a Compliance Plan by the May 18, 2016 deadline and was notified on June 2, 2016 that the NYSE Regulation had accepted the Compliance Plan.. In furtherance of the Compliance Plan, on September 29, 2017 AdCare completed the Merger, to ensure the effective adoption of certain charter provisions restricting the ownership and transfer of the common stock. Such ownership and transfer restrictions, among other things, permit the Company, under applicable accounting guidance, to classify the Company's Series A Preferred Stock as permanent equity on the Company's consolidated balance sheet, which positioned the Company to regain compliance with the Continued Listing Standards.. On October 18, 2017, the Company received notification (the \"Notice\") that the Company had regained compliance with the Continued Listing Standards.. Going forward, the Company will be subject to NYSE Regulation's normal continued listing monitoring. In addition, in the event that the Company is again determined to be noncompliant with any of the continued listing standards of the NYSE American within twelve (12) months of the Notice, NYSE Regulation will examine the relationship between the Company's previous noncompliance with the Stockholders' Equity Continued Listing Standards and such new event of noncompliance in accordance with Section 1009(h) of the Company Guide. In connection with such new event of noncompliance, NYSE Regulation may, among other things, truncate the compliance procedures described in Stockholders' Equity Continued Listing Standards or initiate immediate delisting proceedings.. If the common stock and Series A Preferred Stock are delisted from the NYSE American, such securities may trade in the over-the-counter market. If our securities were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling the common stock and Series A Preferred Stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and any security analysts' coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event the common stock and Series A Preferred Stock are delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in such securities, further limiting the liquidity of the common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our securities. Such delisting from the NYSE American and continued or further declines in our share price could also greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing and could significantly increase the ownership dilution to shareholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions. Any such limitations on our ability to raise debt and equity capital could prevent us from making future investments and satisfying maturing debt commitments.. In addition, if the Company fails for 180 or more consecutive days to maintain a listing of the Series A Preferred Stock on a national exchange, then: (i) the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock will be increased from 10.875% per annum to 12.875% per annum on the 181st day; and (ii) the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors to serve on the Board. Such increased dividend rate and voting rights will continue for so long as the Series A Preferred Stock is not listed on a national exchange."
