[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. We are in the process of implementing a new strategy, priorities and initiatives and any inability to execute and evolve our strategy over time could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Hugh E. Sawyer became our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors in April 2017. The transition has resulted in, and could further result in, changes in business strategy and operations as Mr. Sawyer seeks to continue to improve the performance of company-owned salons while at the same time accelerate the growth of our franchise model. As part of our strategic transformation, we reorganized our field structure by brand/concept; sold substantially all of our mall-based salon business in North America and substantially all of our previous International segment in the United Kingdom to the Beautiful Group (\"TBG\"), which operates these locations as franchised locations; closed 597 non-performing company-owned SmartStyle salons (including 8 TGF salons) as part of the operational restructuring of the SmartStyle portfolio; and implemented various initiatives intended to stabilize performance and establish a platform for long-term growth, including investments in digital marketing and mobile applications designed to improve the guest experience and a multi-year sponsorship with Major League Baseball for our Supercuts® brand designed to support the growth of both company-owned and franchised Supercuts salons.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to grow our franchise model, including attracting and retaining qualified franchisees. We announced plans in fiscal year 2017 to expand the franchise side of our business, including by selling certain company-owned salons to franchisees over time. In January 2017, we began franchising the SmartStyle brand throughout the U.S. for the first time. In October 2017, we sold substantially all of our mall-based salons, consisting of 858 Regis Salons and MasterCuts locations, and substantially all of our International business to a new single franchisee, TBG. Growth and development of our franchise model is ongoing. During fiscal year 2018, excluding the TBG transactions, new and existing franchisees opened 525 salons, of which 77 were organic and 448 were the sale of a company-owned salon to a franchisee. The potential growth of our franchise model will take time to execute and may create additional costs, expose us to additional legal and compliance risks, cause disruption to our current business and impact our short-term operating results. Further, in order to enhance services to its franchisees, the Company may need to invest in certain new capabilities and/or services.. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to improve sales, as well as both cost of service and product and operating margins at our company-owned salons. Same-store sales are affected by average ticket and same-store guest visits. A variety of factors affect same-store guest visits, including the guest experience, staffing and retention of stylists and salon leaders, price competition, fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, product assortment, customer traffic at Walmart where our SmartStyle locations reside, marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our same-store sales to differ materially from prior periods and from our expectations.. In addition to a new President and Chief Executive Officer, since April 2017 we have appointed a new President of Franchise, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, General Counsel, Chief Technology Officer, Senior Vice President of Merchandise and Vice President Creative. The process of integrating new talent and implementing any new strategies, priorities and initiatives involves inherent risks, including timing risks, and the changes we implement could harm our culture, relationships with customers, franchisees, suppliers, employees or other third parties and may be disruptive to our business. While we believe the pursuit of these changes will have a positive effect on our business in the long term, we cannot provide assurance that these changes will lead to the desired results. If we do not effectively and successfully execute on these changes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. It is important for us and our franchisees to attract, train and retain talented stylists and salon leaders.. Guest loyalty is dependent upon the stylists who serve our guests and the customer experience in our company-owned and franchised salons. Qualified, trained stylists are a key to a memorable guest experience that creates loyal customers. In order to profitably grow our business, it is important for our company-owned salons and franchisees to attract, train and retain talented stylists and salon leaders and to adequately staff our salons. Because the salon industry is highly fragmented and comprised of many independent operators, the market for stylists is highly competitive. In addition, increases in minimum wage requirements may impact the number of stylists considering careers outside the beauty industry. There is also a low unemployment rate and high competition for employees in the service industry, particularly licensed employees, which drives increased competition for stylists and could result in retention and hiring difficulties. In some markets, we and our franchisees have experienced a shortage of qualified stylists. Offering competitive wages, benefits, education and training programs are important elements to attracting and retaining qualified stylists. In addition, due to challenges facing the for-profit education industry, cosmetology schools, including our joint venture EEG, have experienced declines in enrollment, revenues and profitability in recent years. If the cosmetology school industry sustains further declines in enrollment or some schools close entirely, or if stylists leave the beauty industry, we expect that we and our franchisees would have increased difficulty staffing our salons in some markets. If our company-owned salons or franchisees are not successful in attracting, training and retaining. 15. Table of Contents. stylists or in staffing our salons, our same-store sales or the performance of our franchise business could experience periods of variability or sales could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our continued success depends in part on the success of our franchisees, who operate independently.. As of June 30, 2018, approximately 50% of our salons were franchised locations and we intend to expand our number of franchised locations, where we believe it will enhance shareholder value. We derive revenues associated with our franchised locations from royalties, service fees and product sales to franchised locations. Our financial results are therefore dependent in part upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. As we increase our focus on our franchise business, our dependence on our franchisees grows.. We have limited control over how our franchisees' businesses are run. Though we have established operational standards and guidelines, they own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their salon locations. If franchisees do not successfully operate their salons in compliance with our standards, our brand reputation and image could be harmed and our financial results could be affected. We could experience greater risks as the scale of our franchise owners increases. Further, some franchise owners may not successfully execute the turnaround of under-performing salons which we have transferred to them.. In addition, our franchisees are subject to the same general economic risks as our Company, and their results are influenced by competition for both guests and stylists, market trends, price competition and disruptions in their markets due to severe weather and other external events. Like us, they rely on external vendors for some critical functions and to protect their company data. They may also be limited in their ability to open new locations by an inability to secure adequate financing, especially since many of them are small businesses with much more limited access to financing than our Company, or by the limited supply of favorable real estate for new salon locations. They may experience financial distress as a result of over-leveraging, which could negatively affect our operating results as a result of delayed payments to us. The bankruptcy of a franchisee could also expose us to liability under leases, which are generally sub-leased by us to our franchisees.. A deterioration in the financial results of our franchisees, or a failure of our franchisees to renew their franchise agreements, could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments, fees and product revenues.. Acceleration of the sale of certain company-owned salons to franchisees may not improve our operating results and could cause operational difficulties.. During fiscal year 2018, we accelerated the sale of company-owned salons to new and existing franchisees. During fiscal year 2018 we entered into agreements to sell 448 of our company-owned salons across our brands to new and existing franchisees (of which 388 were SmartStyle salons).. Success will depend on a number of factors, including franchisees' ability to improve the results of the salons they purchase and their ability and interest in continuing to grow their business. We also must continue to attract qualified franchisees and work with them to make their business successful. Moving a salon from company-owned to franchise-owned is expected to reduce our consolidated revenues, increase our royalty revenue and decrease our operating costs; however, the actual benefit from a sale is uncertain and may not be sufficient to offset the loss of revenues.. In addition, challenges in supporting our expanding franchise system could cause our operating results to suffer. If we are unable to effectively select and train new franchisees and support and manage our growing franchisee base, it could affect our brand standards, cause disputes between us and our franchisees, and potentially lead to material liabilities.. TBG's inability to transition and operate its salons successfully could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows, and could prevent the transaction from delivering the anticipated benefits and enhancing shareholder value.. In October 2017, we sold substantially all of our mall-based salon business in North America and substantially all of our International segment to TBG, an affiliate of Regent, which is operating them as a franchisee. The success of TBG depends upon a number of factors that are beyond our control, including, among other factors, market conditions, retail trends in mall locations, industry trends, stylist recruiting and retention, customer traffic, the capabilities of TBG, TBG's ability to maintain adequate working capital, technology and landlord issues. In particular, we remain liable under the leases for certain of these salons until the end of their various terms, and we could be required to make payments if TBG fails to do so, which could adversely impact our results of operations or cash flows.. Under the agreements with TBG, we receive fees for certain services, fees for certain transition services, and product sales revenue; however, the amount of these fees is tied to the success of the business as operated by TBG. As of June 30, 2018, it is taking longer than we originally anticipated for TBG to implement the changes intended to improve the business of the mall-based salons and the International business, and there is no assurance that TBG will be successful in doing so in the future. In addition, several of the services we provided to TBG under the transition services agreement ended in the fourth quarter of. 16. Table of Contents. fiscal year 2018, thereby reducing this current income stream. We anticipate we will attempt to reduce related general and administrative costs and other associated expenses in connection with providing these transition services; however it will take time for us to reduce all of these costs even though the related income stream has ended.. In connection with the purchase agreements, subleases, transition services and other related agreements with the Company, from time to time, TBG has been delinquent on its payments to the Company and to third parties. It is foreseeable that TBG may in the future continue to have cash flow and working capital issues, which could have significant adverse impacts on our business, including a need to record reserves on receivables from TBG. In August 2018, we restructured certain payments due to us from TBG in the form of promissory notes representing approximately $11.7 million in working capital receivables and $8.0 million in accounts receivables, a majority of which was for inventory payables. All notes have a maturity date of August 2, 2020. Under the working capital notes, if no default has occurred under such notes and certain other conditions are met, such notes will be forgiven as of the maturity date and will be exchanged for a three-year contingent payment right that is payable to us upon the occurrence of certain TBG monetization events. Based on the likelihood of future forgiveness of the working capital notes, the Company recorded a full reserve against such notes. Should the Company need to record reserves against its current and future receivables from TBG or their ability to meet the requirements of the promissory notes, these reserves would be recorded within general and administrative expenses. TBG may in the future need to restructure (operationally, legally, or otherwise) these businesses, operations and obligations. The Company has certain rights and remedies under the various agreements with TBG, including, but not limited to, utilization of collateral, litigation, reversion of the leases in respect of certain divested salons back to the Company and enforcement of a guarantee. If the divested salons were to revert, we may have difficulty supporting the businesses because of the challenges involved in quickly and sufficiently staffing the salons and corporate functions to support an influx in company-owned stores, addressing the stores' performance issues, implementing required data privacy requirements in the United Kingdom and resuming support for the salons' IT and marketing requirements. Overall, TBG's inability to transition and operate the salons successfully, or its ability to make payments when due under the promissory notes or otherwise under the franchise agreements and transition service agreements, could adversely affect our business, including increased litigation risks, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows, and could prevent the transaction from delivering the anticipated benefits and shareholder value.. The continued unit growth and operation of the SmartStyle business is dependent on our relationship with Walmart.. At June 30, 2018, we had 2,221 SmartStyle or Cost Cutters salons within Walmart locations, including 2 salons opened during fiscal year 2018 (net of relocations). Walmart is by far our largest landlord, and we are Walmart's largest tenant. Our business within each of those 2,221 salons relies primarily on the traffic of visitors to the Walmart in which it is located, so our success is tied to Walmart's success in bringing shoppers into their stores. We have limited control over the locations and markets in which we open new SmartStyles, as we only have potential opportunities in locations offered to us by Walmart. Furthermore, Walmart has the right to close up to 100 of our salons per year for any reason, upon payment of certain penalties; to terminate lease agreements for breach, such as if we failed to conform with required operating hours, subject to a notice and cure period; and to terminate the lease if the Walmart store in which it sits is closed. During fiscal year 2017, we began franchising select SmartStyle branded locations. Future franchising activity will require the approval of Walmart. Operating both company-owned and franchised SmartStyles adds complexity in overseeing franchise compliance and coordination with Walmart.. Our future growth and profitability may depend, in part, on our ability to build awareness and drive traffic with advertising and marketing efforts, and on delivering a quality guest experience to drive repeat visits to our salons.. Our future growth and profitability may depend on the effectiveness, efficiency and spending levels of our marketing and advertising efforts to drive awareness and traffic to our salons.  In addition, delivering a quality guest experience is crucial in order to drive repeat visits to our salons. We are developing our marketing and advertising strategies, including national and local campaigns, to build awareness, drive interest, consideration and traffic to our salons.  We are also focusing on improving guest experiences to provide brand differentiation and preference, and to ensure we meet our guests' needs. If our marketing, advertising and improved guest experience efforts do not generate sufficient customer traffic and repeat visits to our salons, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Changes in regulatory and statutory laws, such as increases in the minimum wage and changes that make collective bargaining easier, and the costs of compliance and non-compliance with such laws, may result in increased costs to our business.. With 8,168 locations and approximately 27,000 employees worldwide, our financial results can be adversely impacted by regulatory or statutory changes in laws. Due to the number of people we employ, laws that increase minimum wage rates, employment taxes, overtime requirements or costs to provide employee benefits or administration may result in additional costs to our Company.. 17. Table of Contents. A number of U.S. states, Canadian provinces and municipalities in which we do business have recently increased or are considering increasing the minimum wage, with increases generally phased over several years depending upon the size of the employer. Increases in minimum wages and overtime pay increase our costs, and our ability to offset these increases through price increases may be limited. In fact, increases in minimum wages increased our costs over the last five years. In addition, a growing number of states, provinces, and municipalities have passed or are considering requirements for paid sick leave, family leave, predictive scheduling (which imposes penalties for changing an employee's shift as it nears), and other requirements that increase the administrative complexity of managing our workforce. Finally, changes in labor laws, such as recent legislation in Ontario and Alberta designed to facilitate union organizing, could increase the likelihood of some of our employees being subjected to greater organized labor influence. If a significant portion of our employees were to become unionized, it would have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Increases in minimum wages, administrative requirements and unionization could also have an adverse effect on the performance of our franchisees, especially if our franchisees are treated as a \"joint employer\" with us by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) or as a large employer under minimum wage statutes because of their affiliation with us. In addition, we must comply with state employment laws, including the California Labor Code, which has stringent requirements and penalties for non-compliance.. Various state and federal laws govern our relationship with our franchisees and our potential sale of a franchise. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be liable for damages to franchisees and fines or other penalties. A franchisee or government agency may bring legal action against us based on the franchisee/franchisor relationship. Also, under the franchise business model, we may face claims and liabilities based on vicarious liability, joint-employer liability, or other theories or liabilities. All such legal actions not only could result in changes to laws and interpretations, making it more difficult to appropriately support our franchisees and, consequently, impacting our performance, but, also, such legal actions could result in expensive litigation with our franchisees or government agencies that could adversely affect both our profits and our important relations with our franchisees. In addition, other regulatory or legal developments may result in changes to laws or the franchisor/franchisee relationship that could negatively impact the franchise business model and, accordingly, our profits.. In addition to employment and franchise laws, we are also subject to a wide range of federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations, including those affecting public companies, product manufacture and sale, and governing the franchisor-franchisee relationship, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance with new, complex and changing laws may cause our expenses to increase. In addition, any non-compliance with laws or regulations could result in penalties, fines, product recalls and enforcement actions or otherwise restrict our ability to market certain products or attract or retain employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands.. Our success is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands, our customers' connection to our brands, and a positive relationship with our franchisees. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity, including via social media, or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may relate to the way we manage our relationship with our franchisees, our growth strategies, our development efforts, or the ordinary course of our, or our franchisees', business. Other incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control and may damage our brands, such as actions taken (or not taken) by one or more franchisees or their employees relating to health, safety, welfare, or otherwise; litigation and claims; security breaches or other fraudulent activities associated with our payment systems; and illegal activity targeted at us or others. Consumer demand for our products and services and our brands' value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products or services, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, lower royalty income, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. Premature termination of franchise agreements can cause losses.. Our franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as failure of a franchisee to cure a monetary default.  If terminations occur for this or other reasons, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses.  Any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the franchise agreement.  In addition, with many of our brands, we remain liable under the lease and, therefore, will be obligated to pay rent or enter into a settlement with the landlord, and we may not be made whole by the franchisee.   A significant loss of franchisee agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business.. 18. Table of Contents. Cybersecurity incidents could result in the compromise of sensitive information about our guests, employees, vendors or company and expose us to business disruption, negative publicity, costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer.. The normal operations of our business involve processing, transmission and storage of personal information about our guests as well as employees, vendors and our Company. Cyber-attacks designed to gain access to sensitive information by breaching mission critical systems of large organizations and their third party vendors are constantly evolving, and high profile electronic security breaches leading to unauthorized release of sensitive guest information have occurred at a number of large U.S. companies in recent years. Despite the security measures and processes we have in place, our efforts, and those of our third party vendors, to protect sensitive guest and employee information may not be successful in preventing a breach in our systems, or detecting and responding to a breach on a timely basis. As a result of a security incident or breach in our systems, our systems could be interrupted or damaged, or sensitive information could be accessed by third parties. If that happened, our guests could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop visiting our salons altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, as the regulatory environment relating to retailers and other companies' obligations to protect sensitive data becomes stricter, a material failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory sanctions and potentially to lawsuits. These laws are changing rapidly and vary among jurisdictions. Furthermore, while our franchisees are independently responsible for data security at franchised locations, a breach of guest or vendor data at a franchised location could also negatively affect public perception of our brands. More broadly, our incident response preparedness and disaster recovery planning efforts may be inadequate or ill-suited for a security incident and we could suffer disruption of operations or adverse effects to our operating results.. We rely heavily on our information technology systems for our key business processes. If we experience an interruption in their operation, our results of operations may be affected.. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our management information systems. We rely heavily on our management information systems to collect daily sales information and guest demographics, generate payroll information, monitor salon performance, manage salon staffing and payroll costs, manage our two distribution centers and other inventory and other functions. Such systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, security breaches, and natural disasters. In addition, certain of our management information systems are developed and maintained by external vendors, including our POS system, and some are outdated or of limited functionality, not owned by the Company or not exclusively provided by the Company. The failure of our management information systems to perform as we anticipate, meet the continuously evolving needs of our business, or provide an affordable long-term solution, could disrupt our business operations and result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, and reputational damage.. We rely on external vendors for products and services critical to our operations.. We rely on external vendors for the manufacture of our owned brand products, other retail products we sell, and products we use during salon services such as color and chemical treatments. We also rely on external vendors for various services critical to our operations and the security of certain Company data. Our dependence on vendors exposes us to operational, reputational, financial, and compliance risk.. If our product offerings do not meet our guests' expectations regarding safety and quality, we could experience lost sales, increased costs, and exposure to legal and reputational risk. All of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products and packages we buy, for either use on a guest during a service or resale to the public, comply with all safety and quality standards. Events that give rise to actual, potential, or perceived product safety concerns or mislabeling could expose us to government enforcement action and/or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. In addition, we do not own the formulas for certain of our owned brand products, and could be unable to sell those products if the vendor decided to discontinue working with us.. Our vendors are also responsible for the security of certain Company data, as discussed above. In the event that one of our key vendors becomes unable to continue to provide products and services, or their systems fail, are compromised or the quality of their systems deteriorate, we may suffer operational difficulties and financial loss.. Consumer shopping trends and changes in manufacturer choice of distribution channels may negatively affect both service and product revenues.. Both our owned and franchised salons are partly dependent on the volume of traffic around their locations in order to generate both service and product revenues. Supercuts salons and most of our other brands are located mainly in strip center locations, and SmartStyle salons are located within Walmart Supercenters, so they are especially sensitive to Walmart traffic. Customer traffic may be adversely affected by changing consumer shopping trends that favor alternative shopping locations, such as the. 19. Table of Contents. internet. In recent years we have experienced substantial declines in traffic in some shopping malls in particular. While we no longer own mall-based salons, as they are now operated by TBG, traffic patterns at those salons will affect our potential franchise royalties and product sales revenues.. In addition, we are experiencing a proliferation of alternative channels of distribution, like blow dry bars, booth rental facilities, discount brick-and-mortar and online professional products retailers, and manufacturers selling direct to consumers online, which may negatively affect our product and service revenue. Also, product manufacturers may decide to utilize these other distribution channels to a larger extent than in the past and they generally have the right to terminate relationships with us without much advance notice. These trends could reduce the volume of traffic around our salons, and in turn, our revenues may be adversely affected.. If we are not able to successfully compete in our business markets, our financial results may be affected.. Competition on a market by market basis remains challenging as many smaller chain competitors are franchise systems with local operating strength in certain markets and the hair salon industry as a whole is fragmented and highly competitive for customers, stylists and prime locations. Therefore, our ability to attract guests, raise prices and secure suitable locations in certain markets can be adversely impacted by this competition. Our strategies for competing are complicated by the fact that we have multiple brands in multiple segments, which compete on different factors.. We also face significant competition for prime real estate, particularly in strip malls. We compete for lease locations not only with other hair salons, but with a wide variety of businesses looking for similar square footage and high-quality locations.. Furthermore, our reputation is critical to our ability to compete and succeed. Our reputation may be damaged by negative publicity on social media or other channels regarding the quality of services we provide. There has been a substantial increase in the use of social media platforms, which allow individuals to be heard by a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. Negative or false commentary regarding us or the products or services we offer may be posted on social media platforms at any time. Customers value readily available information and may act on information without further investigation or regard to its accuracy. The harm to our reputation may be immediate, without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. Our reputation may also be damaged by factors that are mostly or entirely out of our control, including actions by a franchisee or a franchisee's employee. If we are not able to successfully compete, our ability to grow same-store sales and increase our revenue and earnings may be impaired.. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and other foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to the examination of our income tax returns, payroll taxes and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes and payroll tax accruals. There can be no assurances as to the outcome of these examinations. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and employment taxes.  The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made.. Our effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits, and any repatriation of non-U.S. earnings on which we have not previously provided U.S. taxes.. Changes to healthcare laws in the U.S. may increase the number of employees who participate in our healthcare plans, which may significantly increase our healthcare costs and negatively impact our operating results.. We offer comprehensive healthcare coverage to eligible employees in the United States. Historically, a majority of our eligible employees do not participate in our healthcare plans. Due to changes to healthcare laws in the United States, it is possible that enrollment in the Company's healthcare plans may increase as individual penalties for failing to have insurance increase pursuant to the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and as employees continue to assess their changing healthcare alternatives, including if Medicaid coverage decreases or health insurance exchanges become less favorable. Furthermore, under the ACA, potential fees and or penalties may be assessed against us as a result of individuals either not being offered healthcare coverage within a limited timeframe or if coverage offered does not meet minimum care and affordability standards. An increase in the number of employees who elect to participate in our healthcare plans, changing healthcare-related requirements or if the Company fails to comply with one or more provisions of ACA may significantly increase our healthcare-related costs and negatively impact our operating results.. 20. Table of Contents. Changes to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates may impact our results from operations.. Changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates will have an impact on our expected results from operations. Historically, we have managed the risk related to fluctuations in these rates through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and other financial instruments.. Failure to simplify and standardize our operating processes across our brands could have a negative impact on our financial results.. Standardization of operating processes across our brands, marketing and products will enable us to simplify our operating model and decrease our costs. Failure to do so could adversely impact our ability to grow revenue and realize further efficiencies within our results of operations.. If our joint venture with Empire Education Group is unsuccessful, our financial results may be affected.. We have a joint venture arrangement with Empire Education Group (EEG), an operator of accredited cosmetology schools. Due to significantly lower financial projections resulting from continued declines in EEG's enrollment, revenue and profitability, we recorded a $13.0 million non-cash impairment charge in fiscal year 2016, resulting in a full-impairment of our investment. If EEG is unsuccessful in executing its business plan, or if economic, regulatory and other factors, including declines in enrollment, revenue and profitability continue for the for-profit secondary education market, our financial results may be affected by certain potential liabilities related to this joint venture.. Failure to control costs may adversely affect our operating results.. We must continue to control our expense structure. Failure to manage our cost of product, labor and benefit rates, advertising and marketing expenses, operating lease costs, other store expenses or indirect spending could delay or prevent us from achieving increased profitability or otherwise adversely affect our operating results.. If we fail to comply with any of the covenants in our financing arrangement, we may not be able to access our existing revolving credit facility, and we may face an accelerated obligation to repay our indebtedness.. We have a financing arrangement that contains financial and other covenants. If we fail to comply with any of the covenants, it may cause a default under  our financing arrangement, which could limit our ability to obtain additional financing under our existing credit facility, require us to pay higher levels of interest or accelerate our obligation to repay our indebtedness.. Changes in the general economic environment may impact our business and results of operations.. Changes to the U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom economies have an impact on our business. General economic factors that are beyond our control, such as recession, inflation, deflation, tax rates and policy, energy costs, unemployment trends, extreme weather patterns, other casualty events and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending, may impact our business. In particular, visitation patterns to our salons can be adversely impacted by increases in unemployment rates and decreases in discretionary income levels.. Changes in consumer tastes, hair product innovation, fashion trends and consumer spending patterns may impact our revenue.. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate, gauge and react in a timely manner to changes in consumer tastes, hair product innovation, fashion trends and consumer spending patterns. If we do not timely identify and properly respond to evolving trends and changing consumer demands for hair care, our sales may decline significantly. Furthermore, we may accumulate additional inventory and be required to mark down unsold inventory to prices that are significantly lower than normal prices, which could adversely impact our margins and could further adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Operational failure at one of our distribution centers would impact our ability to distribute product.. We operate two distribution centers, one near Chattanooga, Tennessee, and one near Salt Lake City, Utah. These supply our North America company-owned salons and many of our franchisees with retail products to sell and products used during salon services. A technology failure or natural disaster that caused one of the distribution centers to be inoperable would cause disruption in our business and could negatively impact our revenues.. Our enterprise risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks.. We maintain an enterprise risk management program that is designed to identify, assess, mitigate, and monitor the risks that we face. There can be no assurance that our frameworks or models for assessing and managing known risks, compliance with. 21. Table of Contents. applicable law, and related controls will effectively mitigate risk and limit losses in all market environments or against all types of risk in our business. If conditions or circumstances arise that expose flaws or gaps in our risk management or compliance programs, the performance and value of our business could be adversely affected.. Insurance and other traditional risk-shifting tools may be held by or available to Regis in order to manage certain types of risks, but they are subject to terms such as deductibles, retentions, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of denial of coverage, default or insolvency. If we suffer unexpected or uncovered losses, or if any of our insurance policies or programs are terminated for any reason or are not effective in mitigating our risks, we may incur losses that are not covered or that exceed our coverage limits and could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. The franchise arrangements require each franchisee to maintain certain insurance coverages and levels. Certain extraordinary hazards, however, may not be covered, and insurance may not be available (or may be available only at prohibitively expensive rates) with respect to many other risks. Moreover, any loss incurred could exceed policy limits and policy payments made to franchisees may not be made on a timely basis. Any such loss or delay in payment could have a material and adverse effect on a franchisee's ability to satisfy its obligations under its franchise arrangement, including its ability to make royalty payments.. We rely on our management team and other key personnel.. We depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our management team and others throughout our organization. We are also dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, for whom we compete with other companies both inside and outside our industry. Our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted by the unexpected loss of any of our management team or other key personnel, or more generally if we fail to identify, recruit, train and/or retain talented personnel. Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer's current employment agreement may expire, by its terms, before the Company's multi-year strategic transformation is complete, and no succession plan has yet been determined."
