[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected due to any of the following risks. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. The costs that we pay for metals fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our control, and such fluctuations could adversely affect our operating results, particularly if we cannot pass on higher metal prices to our customers.. We purchase large quantities of aluminum, carbon, alloy and stainless steel and other metals, which we sell to a variety of customers. The costs to us for these metals and the prices that we charge customers for our products may change depending on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions (both domestic and international), competition, production levels, raw material costs, customer demand levels, import duties and other trade restrictions, currency fluctuations and surcharges imposed by our suppliers. We attempt to pass cost increases on to our customers with higher selling prices but we may not always be able to do so, particularly when the cost increases are not demand driven. When metal prices decrease, we may not be able to replace our higher cost inventory with the lower cost metal at a rate that would allow us to maintain a consistent gross profit margin, which would reduce our profitability during that interim period.. Metal prices are volatile due to, among other things, fluctuations in foreign and domestic production capacity, raw material availability and related pricing, metals consumption, import levels into the U.S., and the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. Future changes in global general economic conditions or in production, consumption or export of metals could cause fluctuations in metal prices globally, which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. We generally do not enter into long - term agreements with our suppliers or hedging arrangements that could lessen the impact of metal price fluctuations.. We maintain substantial inventories of metal to accommodate the short lead times and delivery requirements of our customers. Our customers typically purchase products from us pursuant to purchase orders and typically do not enter into long - term purchase agreements or arrangements with us. Accordingly, we purchase metal in quantities we believe to be appropriate to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based on information derived from customers, market conditions, historic usage and industry research. Commitments for metal purchases are generally at prevailing market prices in effect at the time orders are placed or at the time of shipment. During periods of rising prices for metal, we may be negatively impacted by delays between the time of increases in the cost of metals to us and increases in the prices that we charge for our products if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. In addition, when metal prices decline, this could result in lower selling prices for our products and, as we use existing inventory that we purchased at higher metal prices, lower gross profit margins. Consequently, during periods in which we sell this existing inventory, the effects of changing metal prices could adversely affect our operating results.. Our business could be adversely affected by declines in economic activity.. Demand for our products and services is affected by a number of general economic factors. A decline in economic activity in the U.S. and international markets in which we operate could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. During the most recent U.S. economic recession, both demand for our products and pricing levels declined. 14. Table of Contents. rapidly and significantly. In addition to reducing our direct business activity, many of our customers were not able to pay us amounts when they became due, further affecting our financial condition and results of operations. An economic downturn in the markets we serve may result in reductions in sales and pricing of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our potential earnings and future results of operations.. Currency fluctuations and changes in the worldwide balance of supply and demand could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows.. Significant currency fluctuations in the United States or abroad could negatively impact our cost of metals and the pricing of our products. A decline in the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies may result in increased prices for metals and metal products in the United States and reduce the amount of metal imported into the U.S. as imported metals become relatively more expensive. We may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers. If the value of the U.S. dollar improves relative to foreign currencies, this may result in increased metal being imported into the U.S., which in turn may pressure existing domestic prices for metal. This could also occur if global economies are weaker than the U.S. economy, creating a significant price spread between the U.S. and foreign markets.. We operate in an industry that is subject to cyclical fluctuations and any downturn in general economic conditions or in our customers' specific industries could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows.. The metals service center industry is cyclical and impacted by both market demand and metals supply. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States or other countries, or the public perception that these may occur, could decrease the demand for our products and adversely affect our pricing. If either demand or pricing were to decline from the current levels, this could reduce our profitability and cash flows.. We sell many products to industries that are cyclical, such as the non - residential construction, semiconductor, energy, aerospace and heavy equipment industries. Although many of our direct sales are to sub - contractors or job shops that may serve many customers and industries, the demand for our products is directly related to, and quickly impacted by, demand for the finished goods manufactured by customers in these industries, which may change as a result of changes in the general U.S. or worldwide economy, domestic exchange rates, energy prices or other factors beyond our control. As a recent example, the significant decline in oil prices experienced late in 2014 that continued through 2016 negatively impacted our sales to the energy market.. We compete with a large number of companies in the metals service center industry, and, if we are unable to compete effectively, our profitability and cash flows may decline.. We compete with a large number of other general-line distributors and processors, and specialty distributors in the metals service center industry. Competition is based principally on price, inventory availability, timely delivery, customer service, quality and processing capabilities. Competition in the various markets in which we participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have more established brand names in the local markets that we serve. These competitors may be better able to withstand adverse changes in conditions within our customers' industries and may have greater operating and financial flexibility than we have. To compete for customer sales, we may lower prices or offer increased services at a higher cost, which could reduce our profitability and cash flows. Rapidly declining prices and/or demand levels may escalate competitive pressures, with service centers selling at substantially reduced prices, and sometimes at a loss, in an effort to reduce their high cost inventory and generate cash. Currently elevated levels of import material into the U.S. has increased competition between metals service centers as supply exceeds demand. These competitive pressures could further intensify if demand and particularly pricing decline significantly from current levels. Any increased and/or sustained competitive pressure could cause our share of industry sales to decline along with our profitability and cash flows.. If we were to lose any of our primary suppliers or otherwise be unable to obtain sufficient amounts of necessary metals on a timely basis, we may not be able to meet our customers' needs and may suffer reduced sales.. We have few long - term contracts to purchase metals. Therefore, our primary suppliers of carbon steel, alloy steel, stainless steel, aluminum or other metals could curtail or discontinue their delivery of these metals to us in the quantities. 15. Table of Contents. we need with little or no notice. Our ability to meet our customers' needs and provide value - added inventory management services depends on our ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of high quality metal products from our suppliers. If our suppliers experience production problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions, the lead times for receiving our supply of metal products could be extended and the cost of our inventory may increase. If, in the future, we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of the necessary metals at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our customary suppliers, we may not be able to obtain these metals from acceptable alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedules. Even if we do find acceptable alternative suppliers, the process of locating and securing these alternatives may be disruptive to our business, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to meet our customers' needs and reduce our profitability and cash flows. In addition, if a significant domestic supply source is discontinued and we cannot find acceptable domestic alternatives, we may need to find foreign sources of supply. Using foreign sources of supply could result in longer lead times, increased price volatility, less favorable payment terms, increased exposure to foreign currency movements and certain tariffs and duties and require greater levels of working capital. Alternative sources of supply may not maintain the quality standards that are in place with our current suppliers that could impact our ability to provide the same quality of products to our customers that we have provided in the past, which could cause our customers to move their business to our competitors or to file claims against us, and such claims may be more difficult to pass through to foreign suppliers.. There has been significant consolidation at the metal producer level both globally and within the U.S. This consolidation has reduced the number of suppliers available to us, which could result in increased metals costs to us that we may not be able to pass on to our customers and may limit our ability to obtain the necessary metals to service our customers. The number of available suppliers may be further reduced if the general economy enters into another recession. Lower metal prices and lower demand levels may cause certain mills to reduce their production capacity and, in that case, the mill may operate at a loss, which could cause one or more mills to discontinue operations if the losses continue over an extended period of time or if the mill cannot obtain the necessary financing to fund its operating costs.. We rely upon our suppliers as to the specifications of the metals we purchase from them.. We rely on mill certifications that attest to the physical and chemical specifications of the metal received from our suppliers for resale and generally, consistent with industry practice, we do not undertake independent testing of such metals unless independent tests are required by customers. We rely on customers to notify us of any metal that does not conform to the specifications certified by the supplying mill. Although our primary sources of products have been domestic mills, we have and will continue to purchase product from foreign suppliers when we believe it is appropriate. In the event that metal purchased from domestic suppliers is deemed to not meet quality specifications as set forth in the mill certifications or customer specifications, we generally have recourse against these suppliers for both the cost of the products purchased and possible claims from our customers. However, such recourse will not compensate us for the damage to our reputation that may arise from sub - standard products and possible losses of customers. Moreover, there is a greater level of risk that similar recourse will not be available to us in the event of claims by our customers related to products from foreign suppliers that do not meet the specifications set forth in the mill certifications. In such circumstances, we may be at greater risk of loss for claims for which we do not carry, or carry insufficient, insurance.. Our insurance coverage, customer indemnifications or other liability protections may be unavailable or inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of or be unable to pay for material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position.. We endeavor to obtain insurance agreements from financially solid, highly rated counterparties in established markets to cover significant risks and liabilities. Not every risk or liability can be insured, and for risks that are insurable, the policy limits and terms of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. Even if insurance coverage is available, we may not be able to obtain it at a price or on terms acceptable to us. Disputes with insurance carriers, including over policy terms, reservation of rights, the applicability of coverage (including exclusions), compliance with provisions (including notice) and/or the insolvency of one or more of our insurers may significantly affect the amount or timing of recovery.. In some circumstances we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers through contractual provisions, laws, regulations or otherwise. However, these protections are not always available, are typically. 16. Table of Contents. subject to certain terms or limitations, including the availability of funds, and may not be sufficient to cover all losses or liabilities incurred.. If insurance coverage, customer indemnifications and/or other legal protections are not available or are not sufficient to cover our risks or losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.. An increase in delinquencies or net losses of customers could adversely affect our results.. Inherent in the operation of our business is the credit risk associated with our customers. The creditworthiness of each customer and the rate of delinquencies and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the customer's management team, commodity prices and political events. Any increase in delinquencies and net losses on customer obligations could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. In addition, although we evaluate and adjust allowances for credit losses related to past due and non-performing receivables on a regular basis, adverse economic conditions or other factors that might cause deterioration of the financial health of our customers could change the timing and level of payments received and thus necessitate an increase in our estimated losses, which could also have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows.. If we do not successfully implement our growth strategy, our ability to grow our business could be impaired.. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully complete any acquisitions or integrate any other businesses into our operations. If we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates or are otherwise unable to complete acquisitions, we may not be able to continue to grow our business as expected and, if we cannot successfully integrate these businesses, we may incur increased or redundant expenses. Moreover, any additional indebtedness we incur to pay for these acquisitions could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. We have invested a significant amount of capital in new locations and new processing capabilities. We may not continue to identify sufficient opportunities for internal growth to be able to sustain growth at similar levels. In addition, we may not realize the expected returns from these investments.. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of each transaction.. Since our initial public offering in September 1994, we have successfully purchased 63 businesses. We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities and expect to continue to grow our business through acquisitions in the future. Risks we may encounter in acquisitions include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acquired company may not perform as anticipated, which could result in an impairment charge or otherwise impact our results of operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to continue purchasing products from us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or assume existing debt of an acquired company, which, among other things, may result in a downgrade of our credit ratings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may have multiple and overlapping product lines that may be offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause our gross profit margin to decline;. 17. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may have increased inventory exposure for a short time period if the acquired company has significant amounts of material on order;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour relationship with current and new employees, customers and suppliers could be impaired;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour due diligence process may fail to identify risks that could negatively impact our financial condition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may lose anticipated tax benefits or have additional legal or tax exposures if we have prematurely or improperly combined entities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may face contingencies related to product liability, intellectual property, financial disclosures, environmental issues, violations of regulations/policies, tax positions and accounting practices or internal controls;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour management's attention may be diverted by transition or integration issues;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thigher than expected investments may be required to implement necessary compliance processes and related systems, including IT systems, accounting systems and internal controls over financial reporting;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may pay more than the acquired company is worth;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may undertake acquisitions financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease in our earnings and adversely affect other leverage measures. If we issue equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common stock.. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or a number of acquisitions in any short period of time.. In addition, most of the acquisition agreements we have entered into require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of those companies before we acquired them. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. Similarly, the purchasers of our non-core businesses may from time to time agree to indemnify us for operations of such businesses after the closing. We cannot be assured that any of these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We are a decentralized company, which presents certain risks.. With a diverse geographic footprint in both North America and internationally, we believe our decentralized structure has catalyzed our growth and enabled us to remain responsive to opportunities and to our customers' needs, it necessarily places significant control and decision - making authority and accountability in the hands of local management. Because we are decentralized, we may be slower to detect compliance-related problems (e.g., a rogue employee undertaking activities that are prohibited by applicable law or by our internal policies) and \"company - wide\" business initiatives, such as the integration of disparate information technology systems, are often more challenging and costly to implement than they would be in a more centralized environment. Depending on the nature of the problem or initiative in question, such failure could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. As a decentralized business, we depend on both senior management and our key operating employees. If we are unable to attract and retain these individuals, our ability to operate and grow our business may be adversely affected.. Because of our decentralized operating style, we depend on the efforts of our senior management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Gregg J. Mollins, our Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Karla Lewis, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, James Hoffman and other senior management, as well as our key operating employees. We may not be able to retain these individuals or attract and retain additional qualified personnel when needed. We do not have employment agreements with any of our corporate officers or most of our key employees, so they may have less of an incentive to stay with us when presented with alternative employment opportunities. The compensation of our officers and key employees is heavily dependent on our financial performance and in times of reduced financial performance this may cause our employees to seek employment opportunities that provide a more stable compensation structure. The loss of any key officer or employee will require remaining officers and employees to direct immediate and substantial attention to seeking and training a replacement. Our inability to retain members of our senior management or key operating employees or to find adequate replacements for any departing key officer or employee on a timely basis could adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business.. We could fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting.. The accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. These limitations include, among others, the possibility of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. If we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements, we might fail to timely detect any misappropriation of corporate assets or inappropriate allocation or use of funds and could be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. As a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to various environmental, employee safety and health and customs and export laws and regulations, which could subject us to significant liabilities and compliance expenditures.. We are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning air emissions, wastewater discharges, underground storage tanks and solid and hazardous waste disposal at or from our facilities. Our operations are also subject to various employee safety and health laws and regulations, including those concerning occupational injury and illness, employee exposure to hazardous materials and employee complaints. We are also subject to customs and export laws and regulations for international shipment of our products. Environmental, employee safety and health and customs and export laws and regulations are comprehensive, complex and frequently changing. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. We may be subject from time to time to administrative and/or judicial proceedings or investigations brought by private parties or governmental agencies with respect to environmental matters, employee safety and health issues or customs and export issues. Proceedings and investigations with respect to environmental matters, any employee safety and health issues or customs and export issues could result in substantial costs to us, divert our management's attention and result in significant liabilities, fines or the suspension or interruption of our service center activities. Some of our current properties are located in industrial areas with histories of heavy industrial use. The location of these properties may require us to incur environmental expenditures and to establish accruals for environmental liabilities that arise from causes other than our operations. In addition, we are currently remediating contamination in connection with a certain property related to activities at former manufacturing operations of a subsidiary we acquired. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or their enforcement, new laws and regulations or the discovery of conditions not currently known to us, could result in material environmental or export compliance or remedial liabilities and costs, constrain our operations or make such operations more costly.. 19. Table of Contents. We operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks relating to international operations.. Eleven percent of our 2017 sales were to international customers, subjecting us to the risks of doing business on a global level. These risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and the imposition of duties and tariffs. Additional risks from our multinational business include transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political instability, import and export controls, local regulation, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. In addition, government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, tariffs, and capital controls, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocs, can affect the demand for our customers' products and services. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, in countries in which our customers sell large quantities of products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating results could be negatively affected by the global laws, rules and regulations, as well as political environments in the jurisdictions in which we operate. There could be reduced demand for our products, decreases in the prices at which we can sell our products and disruptions of production or other operations. Additionally, there may be substantial capital and other costs to comply with regulations and/or increased security costs or insurance premiums, any of which could negatively impact our operating results.. Our international operations continue to expand, exposing us to additional risks.. Our international presence has grown, so the risk of incurring liabilities or fines resulting from non - compliance with various U.S. or international laws and regulations has increased. For example, we are subject to the FCPA, and similar worldwide anti - bribery laws in non - U.S. jurisdictions such as the United Kingdom's Bribery Act 2010, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from corruptly paying, offering to pay, or authorizing the payment of money, a gift, or anything of value, to a foreign official or foreign political party, for purposes of obtaining or retaining business. A company can be held liable under these anti - bribery laws not just for its own direct actions, but also for the actions of its foreign subsidiaries or other third parties, such as agents or distributors. In addition, we could be held liable for actions taken by employees or third parties on behalf of a company that we acquire. If we fail to comply with the requirements under these laws and other laws we are subject to due to our international operations, we may face possible civil and/or criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results.. We may be subject to risks relating to changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various non - U.S. jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets or changes in tax rates or tax laws or regulations. In particular, although the passage of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 reduced the U.S. tax rate to 21%, our future earnings could be negatively impacted by changes in tax legislation including changing tax rates and tax base such as limiting, phasing-out or eliminating deductions or tax credits, changing rules for earnings repatriations and changing other tax laws in the U.S. or other countries. In addition, it is uncertain if, and to what extent, various states will conform to the new tax law and foreign countries will react by adopting tax legislation or taking other actions that could adversely affect our business.. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non - U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to our income tax liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.. 20. Table of Contents. We rely on information management systems and any damage, interruption or compromise of our information management systems or data could disrupt and harm our business.. We rely upon information technology systems and networks, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information in connection with the operation of our business. Additionally, we collect and store data that is sensitive to our company. Operating these information technology systems and networks and processing and maintaining this data, in a secure manner, are critical to our business operations and strategy. Our information management systems and the data contained therein may be vulnerable to damage, including interruption due to power loss, system and network failures, operator negligence and similar causes.. In addition, our systems and data may be subject to security breaches, viruses, malware, and other cybersecurity attacks. Cybersecurity attacks are increasing in frequency and sophistication. Cybersecurity attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced threats. These threats pose a risk to the security of our information technology systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. We have experienced cybersecurity events on the Company's and certain of our affiliates' networks and/or systems. To date, none of these events has had a material impact on our or our affiliates' operations or financial results. We may experience similar or more sophisticated events in the future. We believe that we have adopted appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology - related and other potential disruptions. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, misappropriation, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Any significant compromise of our information management systems or data could impede or interrupt our business operations and may result in negative consequences including loss of revenue, fines, penalties, litigation, reputational damage, inability to accurately and/or timely complete required filings with government entities including the SEC and the Internal Revenue Service, unavailability or disclosure of confidential information (including personal information) and negative impact on our stock price.. An inability to successfully develop and manage the implementation of our new enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system could adversely affect our operations and operating results.. We are in the process of customizing a third party ERP system to be deployed at certain of our operating locations over the next few years, on a subsidiary by subsidiary basis. The Company has committed significant resources to this new ERP system, which, when implemented, will replace certain of our legacy systems. The Company plans to implement this system, when available, on a subsidiary by subsidiary, or location by location, basis to minimize risks of disruption to the business. A project of this size may result in cost overruns, project delays, or business interruptions. Any business disruption could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship products, provide services and customer support, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business at those locations where deployed.. Our financial results may be affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings, including those involving antitrust, tax, environmental, or other matters.. We are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks. These risks include, among other things, possible liability relating to product liability, personal injuries, intellectual property rights, contract - related claims, government contracts, taxes, environmental matters and compliance with U.S. and foreign laws, including competition laws and laws governing improper business practices. We or one of our subsidiaries could be charged with wrongdoing as a result of such matters. If convicted or found liable, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments, or other damages (in certain cases, treble damages). As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Those laws and regulations may be interpreted in different ways. They may also change from time to time and so may their related interpretations. Changes in laws or regulations could result in higher. 21. Table of Contents. expenses and payments, and uncertainty relating to laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights.. The volatility of the market could result in a material impairment of goodwill or indefinite - lived intangible assets.. We review the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite - lived intangible assets annually or whenever significant events or changes in circumstances occur that might impair the recovery of recorded costs. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or indefinite - lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, declines in the market conditions of our products, viability of end markets (such as the energy market due to lower oil prices - see discussion of impairment charges taken in 2016 and 2015 in Note 17  -  \"Impairment and Restructuring Charges\" of Part II, Item 8 \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\"), loss of customers, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. An impairment charge, if incurred, could be material.. Our business operations and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in our relationship with our employees or changes to U.S. or foreign employment regulations.. We had approximately 14,900 employees worldwide as of December 31, 2017. This means we have a significant exposure to changes in domestic and foreign laws governing our relationships with our employees, including wage and hour laws and regulations, fair labor standards, minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers' compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. A significant increase in minimum wage or overtime rates in jurisdictions where we have employees could have a significant impact on our operating costs and may require that we relocate those operations or take other steps to mitigate such increases, all of which may cause us to incur additional costs, expend resources responding to such increases and lower our profitability.. We face certain risks associated with potential labor disruptions.. Approximately 12% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and/or are represented by unions or workers' councils. Approximately 600 employees are covered by 23 different collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2018. While we believe that our relations with our employees are generally good, we cannot provide assurances that we will be completely free of labor disruptions such as work stoppages, work slowdowns, union organizing campaigns, strikes, lockouts or that any existing labor disruption will be favorably resolved. We could incur additional costs and/or experience work stoppages that could adversely affect our business operations through a loss of revenue and strained relationships with customers.. Risks Related to our Indebtedness. Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition or cause a downgrade of our credit rating and reduce the funds available to us for other purposes and our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our debt instruments could result in an event of default that could adversely affect our operating results.. We have substantial debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2017, we had aggregate outstanding indebtedness of approximately $1.91 billion. This indebtedness could adversely affect us in the following ways:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional financing may not be available to us in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes and, if available, may be considerably more costly than our current debt costs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which reduces the funds available to us for our operations, dividends or other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsome of the interest on our debt is, and will continue to be, accrued at variable rates, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates, which is expected to occur in future periods;. 22. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour leverage may increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand adverse events in our business by limiting our financial alternatives; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, and to plan for, or respond to, competition and changes in our business may be limited due to our indebtedness.. Our existing debt agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants that limit the total amount of debt that we may incur, and may limit our ability to engage in other activities that we may believe are in our long - term best interests. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness or prevent us from accessing additional funds under our revolving credit facility. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned. See discussion regarding our financial covenants in the \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" section of Item 7  \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our existing debt service obligations.. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, draw on our revolving credit facility or access the capital markets to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or new acquisitions to repay amounts drawn under our revolving credit facility when it matures in 2021, amortization payments on our term loan, or our debt securities when they mature in 2023 and 2036. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or have availability to borrow on our revolving credit facility to satisfy our debt obligations, we would expect to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We may not be able to consummate any such transactions at all or on a timely basis or on terms, and for proceeds, that are acceptable to us. These transactions may not be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to timely refinance our obligations on acceptable terms could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers or we may not be able to continue our operations as planned.. Changes in the Company's credit ratings could increase cost of funding.. Our credit ratings are important to our cost of capital. The major rating agencies routinely evaluate our credit profile and assign debt ratings to Reliance. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength, business and financial risk, as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. Any downgrade in our credit rating could increase our cost of capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are permitted to incur more debt, which may intensify the risks associated with our current leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or that our credit rating may be downgraded.. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the terms governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to numerous qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness we may incur in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or that we may be subject to a credit rating downgrade, may increase.. Our acquisition strategy and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital, and limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow.. We may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures. Limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy.. 23. Table of Contents. Because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain prevailing short - term interest rates, we are vulnerable to interest rate increases.. A substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain short - term prevailing interest rates. At December 31, 2017, we had $1.16 billion in total variable interest rate debt outstanding with $908.7 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. Assuming a consistent level of debt, a 100 basis point increase in the interest rate on our floating rate debt would result in approximately $11.6 million of additional interest expense on an annual basis. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to manage the potential impact of interest rate risk. If interest rates continue to increase, we could experience increased interest expense which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
