[1] "ITEM 1A.  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRISK FACTORS. Reliant Bancorp’s decisions regarding credit risk and reserves for loan losses may materially and adversely affect its business.. Making loans and other extensions of credit is an essential element of Reliant Bank’s business. Although Reliant Bank seeks to mitigate risks inherent in lending by adhering to specific underwriting practices, its loans and other extensions of credit may not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe duration of the credit;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcredit risks of a particular customer;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in economic and industry conditions; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tin the case of a collateralized loan, risks resulting from uncertainties about the future value of the collateral.. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReliant Bank attempts to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in its loan portfolio. Reliant Bank periodically determines the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tan ongoing review of the quality, mix, and size of our Bank’s overall loan portfolio;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReliant Bank’s historical loan loss experience;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tevaluation of economic conditions;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregular reviews of loan delinquencies and loan portfolio quality; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe amount and quality of collateral, including guarantees, securing the loans.. There is no precise method of predicting credit losses; therefore, Reliant Bank faces the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed its allowance for loan losses and that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in Reliant Bancorp’s net income, and possibly its capital.. Federal and state regulators periodically review Reliant Bank’s allowance for loan losses and may require Reliant Bank to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of its management. Any increase in the amount of Reliant Bank’s provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on its operating results.. Reliant Bank may have higher loan losses than it has allowed for in its allowance for loan losses. Our loan portfolio includes a meaningful amount of real estate construction and development loans, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans.. Reliant Bank’s actual loan losses could exceed its allowance for loan losses. Reliant Bank’s average loan size continues to increase and reliance on its historic allowance for loan losses may not be adequate. A large portion of Reliant Bank’s loan portfolio is composed of construction, commercial mortgage, and commercial loans. Repayment of such loans is generally considered more subject to market risk than residential mortgage loans. Industry experience shows that a portion of loans will become delinquent and a portion of loans will require partial or entire charge-off. Regardless of the underwriting criteria used, losses may be experienced as a result of various factors beyond Reliant Bank’s control, including among other things, changes in market conditions affecting the value of loan collateral and problems affecting the credit of Reliant Bank’s borrowers.. 14. Table of Contents. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision; compliance with new and existing legislation, regulation, and supervisory requirements and expectations could detrimentally affect our business.. Reliant Bancorp and Reliant Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, the primary focus of which is to protect customers, depositors, the deposit insurance fund, and the safety and soundness of the banking system as a whole, and not shareholders. The quantity and scope of applicable federal and state regulations may place banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, credit unions, and leasing companies. Banking and consumer lending laws and regulations apply to almost every aspect of our business, including lending, capital, investments, deposits, other services, and products, risk management, dividends, and acquisitions.. Legislation and regulation with respect to our industry has increased in recent years, and we expect that supervision and regulation will continue to expand in scope and complexity. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could subject us to additional costs, limits on the services and products we may offer, or limits on the pricing of banking services and products. In addition, establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with laws and regulation increases our costs and could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.. If we receive less than satisfactory results on regulatory examinations, we could be subject to damage to our reputation, significant fines and penalties, requirements to increase compliance and risk management activities, an increase our deposit insurance assessment rate, in addition to related costs and restriction on acquisitions, new locations, new lines of business, or continued growth. Future changes in federal and state banking regulations could adversely affect our operating results and ability to continue to compete effectively. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations subject us to additional restrictions, oversight and reporting obligations, which have significantly increased costs. And over the last several years, state and federal regulators have focused on enhanced risk management practices, compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering laws, data integrity and security, use of service providers, and fair lending and other consumer protection issues, which has increased our need to build additional processes and infrastructure. Government agencies charged with adopting and interpreting laws, rules and regulations may do so in an unforeseen manner, including in ways that potentially expand the reach of the laws, rules or regulations more than initially contemplated or currently anticipated. We cannot predict the substance or impact of pending or future legislation or regulation. Compliance with such current and potential regulation and scrutiny could significantly increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes, require us to increase our regulatory capital and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations.. Our recent acquisition and future expansion may result in additional risks.. Over the last three years we have completed the acquisitions of Community First and Legacy Reliant Bank. We expect to continue to expand in our current markets and in other select markets through additional branches or through additional acquisitions of all or part of other financial institutions. These types of expansions involve various risks, including the risks detailed below.. Growth. As a result of our merger activity, we may be unable to successfully:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain loan quality in the context of significant loan growth;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobtain regulatory and other approvals;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tattract sufficient deposits and capital to fund anticipated loan growth;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain adequate common equity and regulatory capital;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavoid diversion or disruption of our existing operations or management as well as those of the acquired institution;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain adequate management personnel and systems to oversee and support such growth;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain adequate internal audit, loan review and compliance functions; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timplement additional policies, procedures and operating systems required to support such growth.. Results of Operations. There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as we routinely add new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices in our newer markets.. Development of offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, any new branches we establish can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until they reach certain economies of scale. The same is true for our efforts to expand in these markets with the hiring of additional seasoned professionals with significant experience in that market. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in opening any of our new branches. We may be unable to accomplish future branch expansion plans due to a lack of available satisfactory sites, difficulties in acquiring such sites, failure to receive any required regulatory approvals, increased expenses or loss of potential sites due to complexities associated with zoning and permitting processes, higher than anticipated merger and acquisition costs or other factors. Finally, we have no assurance any branch will be successful even after it has been established or acquired, as the case may be.. Regulatory and economic factors. Our growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect our continued growth and expansion. Such factors may cause us to alter our growth and expansion plans or slow or halt the growth and expansion process, which may prevent us from entering into or expanding in our targeted markets or allow competitors to gain or retain market share in our existing markets.. 15. Table of Contents. Failure to successfully address these and other issues related to our expansion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund our operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity represents an institution’s ability to provide funds to satisfy demands from depositors, borrowers and other creditors by either converting assets into cash or accessing new or existing sources of incremental funds. Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that we may be unable to satisfy current or future funding requirements and needs.. The objective of managing liquidity risk is to ensure that our cash flow requirements resulting from depositor, borrower and other creditor demands as well as our operating cash needs, are met, and that our cost of funding such requirements and needs is reasonable. We maintain an asset/liability and interest rate risk policy and a liquidity and funds management policy, including a contingency funding plan that, among other things, include procedures for managing and monitoring liquidity risk. Generally we rely on deposits, repayments of loans and leases and cash flows from our investment securities as our primary sources of funds. Our principal deposit sources include consumer, commercial and public funds customers in our markets. We have used these funds, together with federal funds purchased and other sources of short-term and long-term borrowings, to make loans and leases, acquire investment securities and other assets and to fund continuing operations.. An inability to maintain or raise funds in amounts necessary to meet our liquidity needs could have a substantial negative effect on Reliant Bank’s liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms attractive to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. For example, factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us, a reduction in our credit rating, any damage to our reputation or any other decrease in depositor or investor confidence in our creditworthiness and business. Our access to liquidity could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe volatility or disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole. Any such event or failure to manage our liquidity effectively could affect our competitive position, increase our borrowing costs and the interest rates we pay on deposits, limit our access to the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments, general economic and market conditions and other factors. Loan and lease repayments are a relatively stable source of funds but are subject to the borrowers’ and lessees’ ability to repay loans and leases, which can be adversely affected by a number of factors including changes in general economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups or specific businesses, declines in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and other factors. Furthermore, loans and leases generally are not readily convertible to cash. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet growth in loans and leases, deposit withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such secondary sources include FHLB advances, brokered deposits, secured and unsecured federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks, Federal Reserve borrowings and/or accessing the equity or debt capital markets.. We anticipate we will continue to rely primarily on deposits, loan and lease repayments, and cash flows from our investment securities to provide liquidity. Additionally, where necessary, the secondary sources of borrowed funds described above will be used to augment our primary funding sources. If we are unable to access any of these secondary funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet our customers’ or creditors’ needs, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. 16. Table of Contents. Integrating Community First Bank into Reliant Bank’s operations may be more difficult, costly, or time-consuming than anticipated.. We are still in the process of integrating Community First Bank’s business with that of Reliant Bank. A successful integration of Community First Bank’s business with ours will depend substantially on our ability to consolidate operations, corporate cultures, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may not be able to combine our business with Community Bank’s business without encountering difficulties, such as:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe loss of key employees;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisruption of operations and business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to maintain and increase competitive presence;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloan and deposit attrition, customer loss and revenue loss, including as a result of any decision we may make to close one or more locations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpossible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit; and/or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproblems with the assimilation of new operations, sites or personnel, which could divert resources from regular banking operations.. Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit our successful integration of Community First’s business. Further, we acquired Community First with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a strengthened market position for the combined company, cross selling opportunities, technological efficiencies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of this acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we integrate Community First’s business, including its organizational culture, operations, technologies, services and products, in an efficient and effective manner, our ability to achieve the estimated noninterest expense savings we believe we can achieve, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits on the anticipated timeframe, or at all, could result in a reduction in the price of our shares as well as in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we made fair value estimates of certain assets and liabilities in recording our acquisition of Community First. Actual values of these assets and liabilities could differ from our estimates, which could result in our not achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Finally, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings.. We may face risks with respect to future acquisitions.. When we attempt to expand our business through mergers and acquisitions (as we have done over the last three years), we seek targets that are culturally similar to us, have experienced management and possess either market presence or have potential for improved profitability through economies of scale or expanded services. In addition to the general risks associated with our growth plans which are highlighted above, in general acquiring other banks, businesses or branches, particularly those in markets with which we are less familiar, involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition and merger targets;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management, including as a result of de novo expansion into a market, and opening new bank locations, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the significant costs of the expansion that we may incur, particularly in the first 12 to 24 months of operations;. 17. Table of Contents. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction and integration of an acquired company’s operations with ours;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe incurrence of an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and adverse effects on our results of operations;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tentry into new markets where we have limited or no direct prior experience;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tclosing delays and increased expenses related to the resolution of lawsuits filed by our shareholders or shareholders of companies we may seek to acquire;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to receive regulatory approvals timely or at all, including as a result of community objections, or such approvals being restrictively conditional; and. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks associated with integrating the operations, technologies and personnel of the acquired business.. We expect to continue to evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities that are presented to us in our current markets as well as other markets throughout the region and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash or equity securities and related capital raising transactions may occur at any time. Generally, acquisitions of financial institutions involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our book value and fully diluted earnings per share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in product presence and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we may face significant competition from numerous other financial services institutions, many of which may have greater financial resources than we do, when considering acquisition opportunities. Accordingly, attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or completing any potential future acquisitions.. Reliant Bank’s focus on lending to small to mid-sized community based businesses may increase Reliant Bancorp’s credit risk.. Most of Reliant Bank’s commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small business or middle market customers. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which Reliant Bank operates negatively impact this important customer sector, Reliant Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition and the value of its common stock may be adversely affected. Furthermore, the deterioration of Reliant Bank’s borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with Reliant Bancorp, which could have a material adverse effect on Reliant Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Reliant Bancorp is geographically concentrated in middle Tennessee and changes in local economic conditions impact our profitability.. We currently operate primarily in the Nashville, Tennessee MSA, and most of our loan, deposit and other customers live or have operations in this area. Accordingly, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits, and housing starts in this market, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the areas, and our profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in this market. We cannot assure you that economic conditions, including loan demand, in our market will improve during 2016, or thereafter, and in that case, we may not be able to grow our loan portfolio in line with our expectations. In addition, the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us may be negatively impacted and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Compared to regional or national financial institutions, we are less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or return of more favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur.. Reliant Bank faces strong competition for customers, which could prevent it from obtaining customers and may cause it to pay higher interest rates to attract customers.. The banking business is highly competitive, and Reliant Bank experiences competition in its market from many other financial institutions. Reliant Bank competes with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national, and international financial institutions that operate offices in Reliant Bancorp’s primary market areas and elsewhere. Reliant Bancorp competes with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, Reliant Bancorp has to attract its customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents and businesses that have relocated to the Nashville, Tennessee, MSA. Many of Reliant Bancorp’s competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. These institutions offer some services, such as extensive and established branch networks, that Reliant Bancorp does not provide. There is a risk that Reliant Bancorp will not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in Reliant Bancorp’s market, and that it may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to Reliant Bancorp.. Reliant Bancorp’s deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on its future earnings.. Deposits in Reliant Bank are insured by the FDIC up to $250,000 subject to applicable limitations. To offset the cost of this insurance, the FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system for insured depository institutions that takes into account the risks attributable to different categories and concentrations of an insured depository institution’s assets and liabilities. An institution’s assessment rate depends on the category to which it is assigned and certain adjustments specified by the FDIC, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted regulations that base deposit insurance assessments on total assets less capital rather than deposit liabilities and include off-balance sheet liabilities of institutions and their affiliates in risk-based assessments. In addition, the FDIC retains the authority to further increase Reliant Bank’s assessment rates and the FDIC has established a higher reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term goal which goes beyond what is required by statute. Continued increases in our FDIC insurance premiums could have an adverse effect on Reliant’s results of operations.. Changes in prevailing interest rates may reduce Reliant Bancorp’s profitability.. Reliant Bancorp’s results of operations depend in large part upon the level of its net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest bearing liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings. Depending on the terms and maturities of Reliant Bancorp’s assets and liabilities, Reliant Bancorp believes it is more likely than not a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on its profitability. Many factors cause changes in interest rates, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions. While Reliant Bancorp intends to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities, and pricing of its assets and liabilities, its efforts may not be effective and its financial condition and results of operations could suffer.. 19. Table of Contents. Reliant Bancorp and Reliant Bancorp are dependent on key individuals and the loss of one or more of these key individuals could curtail its growth and adversely affect its prospects.. Reliant Bancorp and Reliant Bank are materially dependent on the performance of the executive management team, loan officers, and other support personnel. Following the effective date of the merger, Reliant Bancorp has continued to be dependent on these officers and employees, in addition to the services of Reliant Bancorp’s executive team, including the president of Reliant Bancorp, the chief executive officer of Reliant Bancorp, and Reliant Bancorp’s chief financial officer. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on the business of Reliant Bancorp and Reliant Bancorp, results of operations, and financial condition. Many of these key officers have important customer relationships, which are instrumental to the Bank’s operations. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to Reliant Bank’s business and could have a material adverse effect on Reliant Bank’s business, financial condition, and results of operations, either before or after the merger. Management believes that future results also will depend in part upon attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management, especially in the new market areas into which Reliant Bancorp may enter, as well as sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and management cannot be sure that Reliant Bancorp will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel.. Reliant Bancorp is an emerging growth company, and it cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make Reliant Bancorp’s common stock less attractive to investors.. Reliant Bancorp is subject to periodic reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Reliant Bancorp is an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, however, and it may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in its periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, even if Reliant Bancorp complies with the greater obligations of public companies that are not emerging growth companies immediately after this offering, Reliant Bancorp may avail itself of the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies from time to time in the future, so long as it is an emerging growth company. Reliant Bancorp will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, though it may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if, before the end of such five years, it is deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC (which depends on, among other things, having a market value of common stock held by non-affiliates in excess of $700 million) or if Reliant Bancorp’s total annual gross revenues equal or exceed $1 billion in a fiscal year. Reliant Bancorp cannot predict if investors will find its common stock less attractive because it will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find Reliant Bancorp’s common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for Reliant Bancorp’s common stock and its stock price may be more volatile.. Further, the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. Reliant Bancorp has elected not to opt out of such an extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, Reliant Bancorp, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make Reliant Bancorp’s financial statements not comparable with those of another public company that is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company, which has opted out of using the extended transition period because of the potential differences in accounting standards used.. 20. Table of Contents. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and recently adopted capital rules is uncertain.. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the U.S. and around the world, known as Basel III. Basel III called for increases in the requirements for minimum common equity, minimum Tier 1 capital and minimum total capital for certain systemically important financial institutions, to be phased in over time until fully phased in by January 1, 2019. The final rules were adopted by the federal banking agencies in July 2013.. The rules add a new common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio minimum of 4.5%, increase the minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4.0% to 6.0%, and decrease the Tier 2 capital that may be included in calculating total risk-based capital from 4.0% to 2.0%. The final rules also introduce a common equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets, which is in addition to the Tier 1 and total risk-based capital requirements. The required minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets will remain 8.0% and the minimum leverage ratio will remain 4.0%. The new risk-based capital requirements (except for the capital conservation buffer) became effective for Reliant Bancorp on January 1, 2015. The capital conservation buffer is being phased in over four years which began on January 1, 2016, with a maximum buffer of 0.625% of risk-weighted assets for 2016, 1.25% for 2017, 1.875% for 2018, and 2.5% for 2019 and thereafter. Failure to maintain the required capital conservation buffer will result in limitations on capital distributions and on discretionary bonuses to executive officers.. The final rules also implement revisions and clarifications consistent with Basel III regarding the various components of Tier 1 capital, including common equity, unrealized gains and losses and instruments that will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital. The final rules also set forth certain changes for the calculation of risk-weighted assets that Reliant Bancorp was required to implement beginning January 1, 2015.. In addition to the updated capital requirements, the final rules also contain revisions to the prompt corrective action framework. Beginning January 1, 2015, the minimum ratios to be considered well-capitalized were updated to increase the minimum Tier 1 capital requirement from 6.0% to 8.0%, in addition to the requirement to maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%.. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Reliant Bancorp and Reliant Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the issuance of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if Reliant Bancorp were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. Interest rate movements, inflation and other economic factors can negatively impact our mortgage banking business.. Our financial results also are affected by the risks generally incident to our mortgage banking business, including interest rate levels, the impact of government regulation on mortgage loan originations and servicing and the need to issue forward commitments to fund and sell mortgage loans. Our mortgage banking business also is affected by interest rate fluctuations. We also may experience market losses resulting from daily increases in interest rates to the extent we are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate with forward commitments from third parties to purchase such loans. Increases in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our mortgage banking revenue, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows. Our mortgage loan operations may also be adversely affected by other economic factors within our markets such as negative changes in employment levels, job growth, and consumer confidence and availability of mortgage financing, one or all of which could result in reduced demand or price depression from current levels. Our mortgage banking operations are also dependent upon the securitization market for mortgage-backed securities, and could be materially adversely affected by any fluctuation or downturn in such market. In the event that disruptions to the secondary markets tighten or eliminate the available liquidity within the secondary markets for mortgage loans, we could experience a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, and stock performance.. 21. Table of Contents. If the underwriting quality of our mortgage originations is found to be deficient, our profit could decrease and we may incur losses.. We provide several different loan products to our customers to finance the purchase of their homes. We sell a large number of the mortgage loans we originate into the secondary mortgage market, and those loans are underwritten to the standards and specifications of the ultimate investor. Insofar as we underwrite our originated loans to those standards, we bear no increased concentration of credit risk from the issuance of loans, except in certain limited instances where early payment default occurs. In the event that a substantial number of the loans that we have originated fall into default and the investors to whom we sold the loans determine that we did not underwrite the loans in accordance with their requirements, we could be required to repurchase the loans from the investors or indemnify the investor for any losses incurred. This may result in losses that could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows.. Regulations relating to privacy, information security and data protection could increase our costs, affect or limit how we collect and use personal information and adversely affect our business opportunities.. We are subject to various privacy, information security and data protection laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by them. For example, in the United States, certain of our businesses are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (“GLBA”) and implementing regulations and guidance. Among other things, the GLBA: (i) imposes certain limitations on the ability of financial institutions to share consumers’ nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties, (ii) requires that financial institutions provide certain disclosures to consumers about their information collection, sharing and security practices and affords customers the right to “opt out” of the institution’s disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions) and (iii) requires financial institutions to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the sensitivity of customer information processed by the financial institution as well as plans for responding to data security breaches.. Moreover, various United States federal banking regulatory agencies, states and foreign jurisdictions have enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory and/or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Many of these requirements also apply broadly to our partners that accept our payment. In many countries that have yet to impose data security breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary notification and discourage data security breaches.. Furthermore, legislators and/or regulators in the United States are increasingly adopting or revising privacy, information security and data protection laws that potentially could have a significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. This could also increase our costs of compliance and business operations and could reduce income from certain business initiatives. This includes increased privacy-related enforcement activity at the federal level, by the Federal Trade Commission, as well as at the state level, such as with regard to mobile applications.. Compliance with current or future privacy, data protection and information security laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer and/or employee data to which we are subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and/or governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our reputation and our brand.. 22. Table of Contents. Anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws could have significant adverse consequences for us.. We maintain an enterprise-wide program designed to enable us to comply with applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act. This program includes policies, procedures, processes and other internal controls designed to identify, monitor, manage and mitigate the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing posed by our products, services, customers and geographic locale. These controls include procedures and processes to detect and report suspicious transactions, perform customer due diligence, respond to requests from law enforcement, and meet all recordkeeping and reporting requirements related to particular transactions involving currency or monetary instruments. We cannot be sure our programs and controls will be effective to ensure our compliance with all applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws and regulations, and our failure to comply could subject us to significant sanctions, fines, penalties and reputational harm, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The new “ability-to-repay” and “qualified mortgage” rules could have a negative impact on our loan origination process and foreclosure proceedings.. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, created by the Dodd-Frank Act, has adopted rules that are likely to impact our residential mortgage lending practices, and the residential mortgage market generally including rules that implement the “ability-to-repay” requirement and provide protection from liability for “qualified mortgages,” as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The ability-to-repay rule, which took effect on January 10, 2014, requires lenders to consider, among other things, income, employment status, assets, payment amounts, and credit history before approving a mortgage, and provides a compliance “safe harbor” for lenders that issue certain “qualified mortgages.” The rules define a “qualified mortgage” to have certain specified characteristics, and generally prohibit loans with negative amortization, interest-only payments, balloon payments, or terms exceeding 30 years from being qualified mortgages. The rule also establishes general underwriting criteria for qualified mortgages, including that monthly payments be calculated based on the highest payment that will apply in the first five years of the loan and that the borrower have a total debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43 percent. While “qualified mortgages” will generally be afforded safe harbor status, a rebuttable presumption of compliance will attach to mortgages that also meet the definition of a “higher priced mortgage” (which are generally subprime loans). Although the new “qualified mortgage” rules may provide better definition and more certainty regarding regulatory requirements, the rules may also increase our compliance burden and reduce our lending flexibility and discretion, which could negatively impact our ability to originate new loans and the cost of originating new loans. Any loans that we make outside of the “qualified mortgage” criteria could expose us to an increased risk of liability and reduce or delay our ability to foreclose on the underlying property. Additionally, qualified “higher priced mortgages” only provide a rebuttable presumption of compliance and thus may be more susceptible to challenges from borrowers. It is difficult to predict how the CFPB’s “qualified mortgage” rules will impact us, but any decreases in loan origination volume or increases in compliance and foreclosure costs could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Reliant Bancorp’s historical operating results may not be indicative of its future operating results.. Reliant Bancorp may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth, and, consequently, Reliant Bancorp’s historical results of operations will not necessarily be indicative of its future operations due to the merger with Reliant Bank. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations, and competition, may also impede Reliant Bancorp’s ability to expand its market presence. If Reliant Bancorp experiences a significant decrease in its historical rate of growth, Reliant Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of its operating costs are fixed expenses.. Reliant Bancorp may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose our bank to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the bank cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 23. Table of Contents. Reliant Bancorp’s ability to pay cash dividends is limited, and Reliant Bancorp may be unable to pay future dividends even if it desires to do so.. The Federal Reserve has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends by bank holding companies. In general, the Federal Reserve’s policies provide that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the bank holding company appears consistent with the organization’s capital requirements, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve’s policies also require that a bank holding company serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks by standing ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to those banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and by maintaining the financial flexibility and capital raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks where necessary. In addition, under the prompt corrective action regulations, the ability of a bank holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. These regulatory policies could affect Reliant Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends or otherwise engage in capital distributions.. Reliant Bancorp’s ability to pay cash dividends may be limited by regulatory restrictions, by Reliant Bank’s ability to pay cash dividends to Reliant Bancorp and by Reliant Bancorp’s need to maintain sufficient capital to support Reliant Bancorp’s operations. A Tennessee chartered bank may, with the approval of the TDFI, transfer funds from its surplus account to the undivided profits (retained earnings) account or any part of its paid-in-capital account. The payment of dividends by any bank is dependent upon its earnings and financial condition and, in addition to the limitations referred to above, is subject to the statutory power of certain federal and state regulatory agencies to act to prevent what they deem unsafe or unsound banking practices. The payment of dividends could, depending upon the financial condition of Reliant Bank, be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice. Without regulatory approval, a dividend only can be paid to the extent of the net income of the bank for that year plus the net income of the prior two years. The FDIA prohibits a state bank, the deposits of which are insured by the FDIC, from paying dividends if it is in default in the payment of any assessments due the FDIC.. If Reliant Bank is not permitted to pay cash dividends to Reliant Bancorp, it is unlikely that Reliant Bancorp would be able to pay cash dividends on Reliant Bancorp’s common stock. Moreover, holders of Reliant Bancorp’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when and if declared by Reliant Bancorp’s board of directors. Although Reliant Bancorp has paid cash dividends on its common stock in recent years, Reliant Bancorp is not required to do so, and Reliant Bancorp’s board of directors could reduce or eliminate Reliant Bancorp’s common stock dividend in the future.. Reliant Bancorp’s stock price may fluctuate, which could result in losses to its investors and litigation against Reliant Bancorp.. Reliant Bancorp’s common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC. A number of factors could cause Reliant Bancorp’s stock price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to: actual or anticipated variations in earnings, changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, Reliant Bancorp’s announcement of developments related to its businesses, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors, news reports of trends, irrational exuberance on the part of investors, new federal banking regulations, and other issues related to the financial services industry. Reliant Bancorp’s stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector, could adversely affect the price of Reliant Bancorp’s common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for Reliant Bancorp’s shareholders to resell their common stock when desired and at prices they find attractive. Moreover, in the past, securities class action lawsuits have been instituted against some companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Reliant Bancorp could in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from Reliant Bancorp’s normal business.. 24. Table of Contents. Economic and other circumstances may require Reliant Bancorp to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to it. If Reliant Bancorp has to issue shares of common stock, the issuance will dilute the percentage ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of Reliant Bancorp’s common stock and adversely affect the terms on which Reliant Bancorp may obtain additional capital.. Reliant Bancorp may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments or to strengthen its capital position. Reliant Bancorp’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and Reliant Bancorp’s financial performance. Reliant Bancorp cannot provide assurance that such financing will be available to Reliant Bancorp on acceptable terms or at all, or if Reliant Bancorp does raise additional capital that it will not be dilutive to existing shareholders.. If Reliant Bancorp determines, for any reason, that it needs to raise capital, Reliant Bancorp’s board of directors generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of stock for any corporate purpose, including issuance of equity based incentives under or outside of Reliant Bancorp’s equity compensation plans, subject to certain Nasdaq rules. Additionally, Reliant Bancorp is not restricted from issuing additional common stock or preferred stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock or preferred stock or any substantially similar securities. The market price of Reliant Bancorp’s common stock could decline as a result of sales by Reliant Bancorp of a large number of shares of common stock or preferred stock or similar securities in the market or from the perception that such sales could occur. If Reliant Bancorp issues preferred stock that has a preference over the common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or if Reliant Bancorp issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of the common stock, the rights of holders of the common stock or the market price of Reliant Bancorp’s common stock could be adversely affected. Any issuance of additional shares of stock will dilute the percentage ownership interest of Reliant Bancorp’s shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of its common stock. Shares Reliant Bancorp issues in connection with any such offering will increase the total number of shares and may dilute the economic and voting ownership interest of Reliant Bancorp’s existing shareholders.. A failure in or breach of Reliant Bancorp’s operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of Reliant Bancorp’s third party vendors and other service providers or other third parties, including as a result of cyberattacks, could disrupt Reliant Bancorp’s businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage its reputation, increase its costs, and cause losses.. Reliant Bancorp relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Information security risks for financial institutions such as Reliant Bancorp have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime (both domestic and international), hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As customer, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, Reliant Bancorp’s operating systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. Reliant Bancorp’s business, financial, accounting, and data processing systems, or other operating systems and facilities, may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond Reliant Bancorp’s control. For example, there could be electrical or telecommunication outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and floods; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and as described below, cyberattacks.. As noted above, Reliant Bancorp’s business relies on its digital technologies, computer and e-mail systems, software and networks to conduct its operations. Although Reliant Bancorp has information security procedures and controls in place, Reliant Bancorp’s technologies, systems and networks and its customers’ devices may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, or destruction of Reliant Bancorp’s or its customers’ or other third parties’ confidential information. Third parties with whom Reliant Bancorp does business or that facilitate Reliant Bancorp’s business activities, including financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide service or security solutions for Reliant Bancorp’s operations, and other unaffiliated third parties, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to Reliant Bancorp, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.. 25. Table of Contents. While Reliant Bancorp has business continuity and other policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Reliant Bancorp’s risk and exposure to these matters remain heightened because of the evolving nature of these threats. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of Reliant Bancorp’s controls, processes, and practices designed to protect its systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a focus for Reliant Bancorp. As threats continue to evolve, Reliant Bancorp may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support Reliant Bancorp’s businesses and clients, or cyberattacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that Reliant Bancorp’s clients use to access Reliant Bancorp’s products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputation damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could have a material effect on Reliant Bancorp’s results of operations or financial condition.. Negative public opinion surrounding Reliant Bancorp and the financial institutions industry generally could damage Reliant Bancorp’s reputation and adversely impact its earnings.. Reputation risk, or the risk to Reliant Bancorp’s business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion surrounding Reliant Bancorp and the financial institutions industry generally, is inherent in Reliant Bancorp’s business. Negative public opinion can result from Reliant Bancorp’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect Reliant Bancorp’s ability to keep and attract clients and employees and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action. Although Reliant Bancorp takes steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with its clients and communities, this risk will always be present given the nature of Reliant Bancorp’s business.. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders.. In order to maintain our or Reliant Bank’s capital at desired or regulatory-required levels, we may issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions (as we did in connection with our acquisition of Community First), which could also dilute shareholder ownership.. Holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders.. In connection with the Community First merger, Reliant Bancorp assumed trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $23.0 million of which $10.0 million was owned by Community First prior to the merger and assumed by Reliant Bancorp. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by Reliant Bancorp, and the accompanying subordinated debentures are senior to shares of Reliant Bancorp’s common stock. As a result, Reliant Bancorp must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on common stock and, in the event of Reliant Bancorp’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Reliant Bancorp’s common stock.. 26. Table of Contents. Reliant Bancorp may from time to time issue additional subordinated indebtedness that would have to be repaid before Reliant Bancorp’s shareholders would be entitled to receive any of the assets of Reliant Bancorp or Reliant Bank.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. As a smaller company, it may be difficult for us to attract or retain the interest of equity research analysts. A lack of research coverage may adversely affect the liquidity of and market price of our common stock. We will not have any control over the equity research analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or issue other unfavorable commentary or research. If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of our company, or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Shares of Reliant Bancorp common stock are not FDIC insured.. Shares of Reliant Bancorp common stock are not deposits with a bank and are not insured by the FDIC."                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
