[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this 2017 Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of may become important factors that affect us. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results may suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. If we are unable to maintain or increase the number of visitors interacting with, and making purchases on, our owned-and-operated websites and mobile applications in a cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We earn a substantial amount of our revenue from transactions occurring on our websites and Internet-based mobile applications. Providing a high-quality, highly-efficient and user-friendly online experience, in a cost-effective manner, is vital to our operations. Failure to do so could adversely affect user experiences and reduce traffic to our owned-and-operated websites and mobile applications, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To attract traffic, we utilize search engine optimization related to our websites and the content published on them, a strategy that involves building websites with the objective of having them rank well in unpaid search engine results. Our ability to successfully manage search engine optimization efforts across our owned-and-operated websites is dependent on our timely and effective modification of search engine optimization practices implemented in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms and methodologies and changes in search query trends and our ability to offer websites and content responsive to ever-changing consumer interests and trends. Our failure to successfully manage our search engine optimization strategy could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our owned-and-operated websites, or an inability to attract traffic to new websites that we launch which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Even if we succeed in attracting traffic to our owned-and-operated websites, we may not be successful in monetizing the traffic. Additionally, the costs of attracting and retaining users to our websites may exceed our ability to generate revenues from such activities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our travel and entertainment business is dependent on providers of travel and entertainment products.. Our travel and entertainment business relies on providers of travel and entertainment products (including lodging, air travel, show tickets and tours) to make their products available to consumers through us. Our arrangements with such providers generally do not require them to make available any specific quantity of such products, or to make such products available at any particular price. A significant reduction on the part of any of our major providers, or providers that are particularly popular with consumers, in their participation in our services for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Table of Contents 7. Our travel business derives a significant portion of its revenues from the Las Vegas market and is especially subject to certain risks, including economic and competitive risks, associated with conditions in the Las Vegas area.. Because our Vegas.com subsidiary provides travel and entertainment booking services in the Las Vegas market exclusively, we are subject to greater risks from conditions in the Las Vegas area than travel booking companies that are more geographically diversified. Risks from conditions in the Las Vegas area include the following:. • local economic and competitive conditions;. • reduced land and air travel due to increasing fuel costs or transportation disruptions;. • inaccessibility of the area due to inclement weather, natural disasters, road construction or closure of primary access routes;. • the outbreak of public health threats in the area or the perception that such threats exist; and. • a decline in the number of visitors.. Our travel business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending.. Expenditures on travel and entertainment and leisure activities are sensitive to personal and business-related discretionary spending levels and tend to decline or grow more slowly during economic downturns. Changes in discretionary spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, high unemployment, perceived or actual changes in disposable consumer income and wealth, higher fuel or other transportation costs, or changes in consumer confidence could reduce demand for our services, which could adversely affect our travel business and our overall business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our travel business.. The success and financial performance of our travel business are affected by the health of the worldwide travel industry. Our business is sensitive to fluctuations in hotel supply, occupancy and average daily rates, decreases in airline capacity, periodically rising airline ticket prices, or the imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, all of which we have experienced historically.. Other factors that could negatively affect our business include:. • air fare increases;. • continued consolidation of air carriers and hotel providers;. • travel-related strikes or labor unrest, bankruptcies or liquidations;. • incidents of actual or threatened terrorism;. • periods of political instability or geopolitical conflict in which travelers become concerned about safety issues;. • natural disasters or events such as severe weather conditions, volcanic eruptions, hurricanes or earthquakes; and. • health-related risks, such as the Ebola, H1N1, SARs and avian flu outbreaks.. Such concerns could result in a protracted decrease in demand for our travel services which, depending on its scope and duration and together with any future issues affecting travel safety, could adversely affect our business over the short and long-term. In addition, the disruption of the existing travel plans of a significant number of travelers upon the occurrence of certain events, such as severe weather conditions, actual or threatened terrorist activity or war, could result in the incurrence of significant additional costs and decrease our revenues leading to constrained liquidity if we provide relief to affected travelers by refunding the price or fees associated with hotel reservations and other travel products and services.. Table of Contents 8. As a creator and a distributor of digital content, we face potential liability for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we create or distribute, or that are accessible via our owned-and-operated websites.. As a creator and distributor of original content and content provided by third parties, we face potential liability for legal claims, including defamation, negligence, unlawful practice of a licensed profession, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories relating to the information we publish on our websites, and under various laws, including the Lanham Act, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the Copyright Act. We may also be exposed to similar liability in connection with content that is posted to our owned-and-operated websites by users and other third parties through comments, profile pages, discussion forums and other social media features. In addition, it is also possible that visitors to our owned-and-operated websites could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance upon information provided on our owned-and-operated websites. Any of these claims could result in significant costs to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of the claims. If we are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. While we run our content through a rigorous quality control process, there is no guarantee that we will avoid future liability and potential expenses for legal claims, which could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their advertisers and for the content of their advertisers' listings are currently unsettled. Such claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We may not successfully avoid liability for unlawful activities carried out by advertisers displayed on our websites. If we are subjected to such lawsuits, it may adversely affect our business.. The failures of third-party network and technology providers to provide adequate services in the future could cause technical problems with or failure of our websites or traffic, which could inhibit our revenues or damage our reputation and relationships with users, advertisers, and content providers.. We rely on many third-party businesses for technological, network, and expert services. Our ability to operate successfully depends on the successful operation of these third-party businesses, which carry their own risks. If one of our third-party vendors fails to deliver expected services, our websites and, therefore, our business could suffer operating problems or temporary failures. If there is a problem or failure with our websites, it could hurt our ability to advertise and damage our reputation with consumers and advertisers. Additionally, a termination of our hosting agreements or failure to renew on favorable terms could affect our business. Shifting hosting services could require management focus and time and potentially disrupt operations of our websites.. In addition, as operators of content websites reliant on user traffic to sell advertising, our users must have adequate and functioning Internet access. Technical problems with Internet access providers such as cable, DSL satellite or mobile companies may inhibit user access to our websites and slow traffic. Events such as power outages caused by blackouts, brown outs, storm outages or other power issues could also cause loss of user access to our websites.. We process, store and use personal information, payment card information and other consumer data, which subjects us to risks stemming from possible failure to comply with governmental regulation and other legal obligations.. We may acquire personal or confidential information from users of our websites and mobile applications, and we have posted our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data on such websites and mobile applications.. Numerous laws exist regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information, payment card information and other consumer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection; however, these obligations may possibly be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, and they may conflict with other rules or with our practices. Any failure or perceived failure by us, or our service providers, to comply with the privacy policies, privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information, payment card information or other consumer data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements against the company by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers and members to lose trust in us, as well as subject us to bank fines, penalties or increased transaction costs, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Table of Contents 9. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the Internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. The U.S. Congress and federal agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\") and the Department of Commerce, are reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection and use of information concerning consumer behavior on the Internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain targeted advertising practices. Some U.S. courts are also considering the applicability of existing federal and state statutes, including computer trespass and wiretapping laws, to the collection and exchange of information online. Our introduction of new products, the expansion of our activities in certain jurisdictions, or other actions that we may take may subject us to additional laws, regulations, or other government scrutiny. In addition, foreign data protection, privacy, competition, and other laws and regulations can impose different obligations or be more restrictive than those in the United States. Countries in other regions, most notably Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, are increasingly implementing new privacy regulations, resulting in additional compliance burdens and uncertainty as to how some of these laws will be interpreted.. As a merchant that accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (\"PCI DSS\"), issued by the PCI Council. Additionally, we are subject to PCI DSS as a service provider, which is a business entity that is not a payment brand directly involved in the processing, storage, or transmission of cardholder data. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. By accepting debit cards for payment, we are also subject to compliance with American National Standards Institute data encryption standards and payment network security operating guidelines. The cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws, standards and guidelines, including evolving PCI DSS standards, and developing, maintaining and upgrading technology systems to address future advances in technology, could be significant and we could experience problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems. Failure to comply with such laws, standards and guidelines, or payment card industry standards could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable and give rise to liabilities.. Our marketplaces and information technology platform generate and process a large quantity of personal, transactional, demographic and behavioral data. The security of data when engaging in e-commerce is essential to maintaining consumer confidence in our services. Any security breach whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other Internet based systems could significantly harm our reputation and therefore our business, brand, market share and results of operations. We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. We also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to our data or accounts. It is possible that computer circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or advances or other developments, including our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of consumer data. For example, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers to disclose user names, passwords or other sensitive information (\"phishing\"), which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems or to defraud our customers.. Our existing security measures may not be successful in preventing security breaches. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal consumer information or transaction data or other proprietary information and cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused and liabilities incurred by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult to manage as we expand the number of places where we operate and as the tools and techniques used in such attacks become more advanced. Security breaches could result in severe damage to our information technology infrastructure, including damage that could impair our ability to offer our services, as well as loss of customer, financial or other data that could materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, satisfy our commercial obligations or meet our public reporting requirements in a timely fashion or at all. Security breaches could also result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions, or cause consumers to lose confidence in our security and choose to use the services of our competitors, any of which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand, our market share and our results of operations. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, and would likely not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches.. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could. Table of Contents 10. inhibit the growth of the Internet and negatively affect consumers' willingness to provide private information or effect commercial transactions on the Internet generally, including through our services. Additionally, consumers using our services could be affected by security breaches at third parties such as travel service providers, payroll providers, health plan providers, payment processors or GDSs upon which we rely. If these third parties or developers fail to adopt or adhere to adequate data security practices, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our data or our customers' data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. A security breach at any such third-party marketing affiliate, travel service provider, GDS or other third party on which we rely could also be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and in any event could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. In addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability.. We are also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under our contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, we could be liable to payment card issuers for associated expenses and penalties. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, we could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs.. We use a cloud-based infrastructure. Like many companies using the cloud, we continually strive to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We continuously perform vulnerability assessments, review log/access, perform system maintenance, and manage network perimeter protection. A breach of external perimeter may lead to the loss of confidential information.. Our products and internal systems rely on software that is highly technical, and if it contains undetected errors, our business could be adversely affected.. Our products and internal systems rely on software, including software developed or maintained internally and/or by third parties, that is highly technical and complex. In addition, our products and internal systems depend on the ability of such software to store, retrieve, process, and manage immense amounts of data. The software on which we rely has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Some errors may only be discovered after the code has been released for external or internal use. Errors or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for users and marketers who use our products, delay product introductions or enhancements, result in measurement or billing errors, or compromise our ability to protect the data of our users and/or our intellectual property. Any errors, bugs, or defects discovered in the software on which we rely could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. The artificial intelligence market is new and unproven, and it may decline or experience limited growth, which would adversely affect our ability to fully realize the potential of our KanKan social media data intelligence platform.. The artificial intelligence market is relatively new and unproven and is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on the growth and acceptance of this market. The utilization of our platform by customers is still relatively new, and customers may not recognize the need for, or benefits of, our platform, which may prompt them to decide to adopt alternative products and services to satisfy their cognitive computing search and analytics requirements. Our ability to expand the market that our platform addresses depends upon a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value of our platform. Market opportunity estimates are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates, including our internal analysis and industry experience. Assessing the market for our AI-based products in each of the vertical markets we compete in, or plan to compete in, is particularly difficult due to a number of factors, including limited available information and rapid evolution of the market. As a result, we may experience significant reduction in demand for our products and services due to lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, competing products and services, decreases in spending by current and prospective customers, weakening economic conditions and other causes. If our market does not experience significant growth, or if demand for our AI-based products decreases, then our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected.. Table of Contents 11. Our continuous access to publicly-available data and to data from partners may be restricted, disrupted or terminated, which would restrict our ability to develop new products and services, or to improve existing products and services, which are based upon our KanKan social media data intelligence platform.. The success of our AI-based products depends substantially on our ability to continuously ingest and process large amounts of data available in the public domain and provided by our partners, and any interruption to our free access to such publicly-available data or to the data we obtain from our partners will restrict our ability to develop new products and services, or to improve existing products and services. While we have not encountered any significant disruption of such access to date, there is no guarantee that this trend will continue without costs. Public data sources may change their policies to restrict access or implement procedures to make it more difficult or costly for us to maintain access, and partners could decide to terminate our existing agreements with them. If we no longer have free access to public data, or access to data from our partners, the utility of our KanKan mobile application will be significantly reduced and our ability to maintain or improve existing products, or to develop new AI-based products using our DI Software, may be severely limited. Furthermore, we may be forced to pay significant fees to public data sources or to partners to maintain access, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The successful operation of our KanKan mobile application and the associated data intelligence software will depend upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China.. The successful operation of KanKan will depend on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through state-owned international gateways, which are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet outside of China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China's Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage.. The failure of telecommunications network operators to provide us with the requisite bandwidth could also interfere with the speed and availability of KanKan. We have no control over the costs of the services provided by the national telecommunications operators. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and Internet services rise significantly, our gross margins could be adversely affected. In addition, if Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, our user traffic may decrease, which in turn may cause a decrease in our revenues.. We may be subject to liability in China with respect to KanKan and Fanstang for content that is alleged to be socially destabilizing, obscene, defamatory, libelous or otherwise unlawful.. Under the laws of the People's Republic of China, we will be required to monitor our websites and the websites hosted on our servers and mobile interfaces for items or content deemed to be socially destabilizing, obscene, superstitious or defamatory, as well as items, content or services that are illegal to sell online or otherwise in other jurisdictions in which we operate, and promptly take appropriate action with respect to such items, content or services. We may also be subject to potential liability in China for any unlawful actions of our customers or users of our websites or mobile interfaces or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability to us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be subject to fines, have our relevant business operation licenses revoked, or be prevented from operating our websites or mobile interfaces in China.. Table of Contents 12. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business.. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it is possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the People's Republic of China are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources.. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, materially disrupt our business.. We cannot be certain that our brands and services will not infringe valid patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We cannot provide assurance that we will avoid the need to defend against allegations of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit. Intellectual property litigation is very expensive, and becoming involved in such litigation could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win. Substantially greater resources may allow some of our competitors to sustain the cost of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than us; we may not be able to afford the cost of such litigation.. Should we suffer an adverse outcome from intellectual property litigation, we may incur significant liabilities, we may be required to license disputed rights from third parties, or we may have to cease using the subject technology. If we are found to infringe upon third-party intellectual property rights, we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we could develop or obtain alternative technology. If we fail to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, such failure may materially disrupt the conduct of our business, and could consume substantial resources and create significant uncertainties. Any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to:. • payment of actual damages, royalties, lost profits, potentially treble damages and attorneys' fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a third party's patent rights;. • injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell our products;. • us or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all; or. • significant cost and expense, as well as distraction of our management from our business.. The negative outcomes discussed above could adversely affect our ability to conduct business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. New regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce may negatively affect our business.. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, and financial conditions and results of operations.. In 2013, the FTC issued a letter reiterating the guidance it issued in 2002, which recommended that all search engine companies ensure that all paid search results are clearly distinguished from non-paid results, that the use of paid search is clearly and conspicuously explained and disclosed and that other disclosures are made to avoid misleading users about the possible effects of paid search listings on search results. The adoption of laws or regulations relating to placement of paid search advertisements or user privacy, defamation or taxation may inhibit the growth in use of the Internet, which in turn, could. Table of Contents 13. decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. The application of new and existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services has had a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations in the past. For example, on April 17, 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1677, The Taxpayer Protection Act of 2007 (\"H.R. 1677\"). Section 8 of H.R. 1677 would have amended Section 333, Title 31 of the U.S. Code to include Internet domain addresses in the prohibition on certain use of the U.S. Department of the Treasury names and symbols. Although the legislation was never passed by the Senate or signed into law and the bill ceased with the ending of the 110th Congress in January 2009, there is no guarantee that similar legislation won't be introduced and passed into law by the current or future Congress. While the ultimate impact of any such proposed legislation is not presently determinable, if enacted, such legislation may adversely impact our overall operations. We own the Internet domain address US Tax Center at www.irs.com, which is an acronym commonly associated with the Internal Revenue Service, a division of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. While the bill was never passed into law, if enacted, the passage of such legislation could have severely adversely affected our use of our Internet domain address US Tax Center at www.irs.com as well as our overall operations. In the event a bill such as H.R. 1677 were to become law, we intend to continue to be diligent in our communications with the Internal Revenue Service and Congress in an effort to mitigate any potential negative effects of such legislation.. We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our services.. The market for the services we offer is increasingly and intensely competitive. Nearly all our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may secure more favorable revenue arrangements with advertisers, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive growth strategies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we do. In addition, the Internet media and advertising industries continue to experience consolidation, including the acquisitions of companies offering travel and finance-related content and services and paid search services. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger, more established and well-financed competitors with a greater focus. If these industry trends continue, or if we are unable to compete in the Internet media and paid search markets, our financial results may suffer.. Additionally, larger companies may implement policies and/or technologies into their search engines or software that make it less likely that consumers can reach our websites and less likely that consumers will click-through on sponsored listings from our advertisers. The implementation of such technologies could result in a decrease in our revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete against current and future competitors, our operating results will be adversely affected.. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our operating performance will suffer and our financial condition could be adversely affected.. Substantial future growth will be required in order for us to realize our business objectives. To the extent we are capable of achieving this growth, it will place significant demands on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Additionally, this growth will require us to make significant capital expenditures, hire, train and manage a larger work force, and allocate valuable management resources. We must manage any such growth through appropriate systems and controls in each of these areas. If we do not manage the growth of our business effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, as our business grows, our technological and network infrastructure must keep in-line with our traffic and advertiser needs. Future demand is difficult to forecast and we may not be able to adequately handle large increases unless we spend substantial amounts to augment our ability to handle increased traffic. Additionally, the implementation of increased network capacity contains some execution risks and may lead to ineffectiveness or inefficiency. This could lead to a diminished experience for our consumers and advertisers and damage our reputation and relationship with them, leading to lower marketability and negative effects on our operating results. Moreover, the pace of innovative change in network technology is fast and if we do not keep up, we may lag behind competitors. The costs of upgrading and improving technology could be substantial and negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Table of Contents 14. Risks Relating to our Company. We have a history of operating losses and we may not generate sufficient revenue to support our operations.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, and in each fiscal year since our inception, we have incurred net losses and generated negative cash flow from operations, resulting in an accumulated deficit of $299.8 million.. We cannot provide assurance that revenue generated from our businesses will be sufficient to sustain our operations in the long term. We have implemented measures to reduce operating costs, and we continuously evaluate other opportunities to reduce costs. Additionally, we are actively assessing the sale of certain non-core assets, considering sales of minority interests in certain of our operating businesses, and evaluating potential acquisitions that would provide additional revenue. However, we may need to obtain additional capital through equity financing, debt financing, or by divesting of certain assets or businesses. Should we fail to successfully implement our plans described herein, such failure would have a material adverse effect on our business, including the possible cessation of operations.. Conditions in the debt and equity markets, as well as the volatility of investor sentiment regarding macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions, will play primary roles in determining whether we can successfully obtain additional capital. We cannot be certain that we will be successful at raising capital, whether in an equity financing, debt financing, or by divesting of certain assets or businesses, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if we obtain capital by issuing equity, such transaction(s) may dilute existing stockholders.. Additionally, in connection with the VDC Acquisition, we entered into the Financing Agreement, dated as of September 24, 2015 (as amended, the \"Financing Agreement\") with certain of our subsidiaries as borrowers (together with Remark, the \"Borrowers\"), certain of our subsidiaries as guarantors (the \"Guarantors\"), the lenders from time to time party thereto (the \"Lenders\") and MGG Investment Group LP, in its capacity as collateral agent and administrative agent for the Lenders (\"MGG\"), pursuant to which the Lenders have extended credit to us a total aggregate principal amount of $35.5 million. (the \"Loan\"). The terms of the Financing Agreement and related documents are described in Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Financing Agreement contains limitations on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional debt and transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets, without the consent of the Lenders.. On November 9, 2016, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement (as amended, the \"Aspire Purchase Agreement\") with Aspire Capital Fund, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company (\"Aspire Capital\"), which provides that upon the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations set forth therein, we may sell to Aspire Capital up to an aggregate of $20.0 million of shares of our common stock over the 30-month term of the Aspire Purchase Agreement. As of March 28, 2018, Aspire has purchased $12.8 million of shares of our common stock under the Aspire Purchase Agreement.. On April 12, 2017, we issued a short-term note payable in the principal amount of $3.0 million to a private lender in exchange for cash in the same amount. The agreement, which does not have a stated interest rate, required us to repay the note plus a fee of $115,000 on the maturity date of June 30, 2017. The note is accruing interest at $500 per day on the unpaid principal until we repay the note in full.. Expanding our international operations involves additional risks, and our exposure to such risks increases as our business continues to expand outside of the United States.. We operate outside of the United States in China. China has different economic conditions, languages, currency, consumer expectations, levels of consumer acceptance and use of the Internet for commerce, legislation, regulatory environments (including labor laws and customs), tax laws and levels of political stability.  We are subject to associated risks typical of international businesses, including, but not limited to, the following:. • Local economic or political instability;. • Threatened or actual acts of terrorism;. • Compliance with additional laws applicable to companies operating internationally as well as local laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, data privacy requirements, labor and employment law, laws regarding advertisements and promotions and anti-competition regulations;. • Diminished ability to legally enforce contractual rights;. Table of Contents 15. • Increased risk and limits on enforceability of intellectual property rights;. • Restrictions on, or adverse consequences related to, the withdrawal of non-U.S. investment and earnings;. • Restrictions on repatriation of cash as well as restrictions on investments in operations;. • Financial risk arising from transactions in multiple currencies as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions;. • Difficulties in managing staff and operations due to distance, time zones, language and cultural differences; and. • Uncertainty regarding liability for services, content and intellectual property rights, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent.. Operating our business in China exposes us to particular risks and uncertainties relating China's laws and regulations, some of which restrict foreign investment in businesses including Internet content providers, mobile communication and related businesses.  In addition, compliance with legal, regulatory or tax requirements in multiple jurisdictions places demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. In China, legal and other regulatory requirements may prohibit or limit participation by foreign businesses, such as by making foreign ownership or management of Internet businesses illegal or difficult, or may make direct participation in those markets uneconomic, which could make our entry into and expansion in those markets difficult or impossible, require that we work with a local partner or result in higher operating costs. Although we have established effective control of our Chinese business through a series of contractual arrangements, future developments in the interpretation or enforcement of Chinese laws and regulations or a dispute relating to these contractual arrangements could restrict our ability to operate or restructure our business or to engage in strategic transactions.  The success of our business in China, and of any future investments in China, is subject to risks and uncertainties regarding the application, development and interpretation of China's laws and regulations. If we cannot effectively manage our China operations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Furthermore, when we accumulate large amounts of cash in China, which we will consider indefinitely reinvested in our China operations, the repatriation of such funds for use in the United States, including for corporate purposes such as acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends or debt refinancing, may result in additional U.S. income tax expense and higher cost for such capital.. If the Chinese government deems that the contractual arrangements in relation to our variable interest entities (\"VIEs\") do not comply with its restrictions on foreign investment, or if Chinese regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations changes in the future, we could be subject to penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in our China operations.. Various regulations in China restrict or prohibit wholly foreign-owned enterprises from operating in specified industries such as Internet information, financial services, Internet access and certain other industries. In order to comply with Chinese regulatory requirements, we conduct certain of our operations in China through contractual arrangements with our VIEs, which are incorporated in China and owned by members of our management team. These contractual arrangements are intended to give us effective control over each of the VIEs and enable us to receive substantially all of the economic benefits arising from the VIEs as well as consolidate the financial results of the VIEs in our results of operations. We expect that an increased amount of our revenue will be generated through our VIEs. Although the VIE structure we have adopted is consistent with longstanding industry practice, and has been adopted by comparable companies in China, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, and there can be no assurance that the Chinese government would agree that these contractual arrangements comply with China's licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. Chinese laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements are uncertain and the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations.. If the VIE structure is deemed by Chinese regulators having competent authority to be illegal, either in whole or in part, we may lose control of our VIEs and have to modify such structure to comply with regulatory requirements. However, there can be no assurance that we could achieve this without material disruption to our business. Further, if the VIE structure is found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations. Furthermore, new Chinese laws, rules and regulations may be introduced to impose. Table of Contents 16. additional requirements that may be applicable to our contractual arrangements with our VIEs. Occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over the VIEs as direct ownership.. Because we are restricted or prohibited by the Chinese government from owning certain Internet operations in China, we are dependent on our VIEs, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide our FinTech and AI-based products and services through contractual arrangements among the parties and to hold some of our assets.  These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, if we had direct ownership of our VIEs, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in their boards of directors, which in turn could effect changes at the management level. Due to our VIE structure, we have to rely on contractual rights to effect control and management of our VIEs, which exposes us to the risk of potential breach of contract by the VIEs or their shareholders. In addition, as each of our VIEs is jointly owned by its shareholders, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure if such shareholders refuse to cooperate with us. In addition, some of our subsidiaries and VIEs could fail to take actions required for our business. Furthermore, if the shareholders of any of our VIEs were involved in proceedings that had an adverse impact on their shareholder interests in such VIE or on our ability to enforce relevant contracts related to the VIE structure, our business would be adversely affected.. Any failure by our VIEs or their shareholders to perform their obligations under the contractual arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our VIEs or their shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under the contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend additional resources to enforce the arrangements. We have also entered into equity pledge agreements with respect to each VIE to secure certain obligations of such variable interest entity or its shareholders to us under the contractual arrangements. However, the enforcement of these agreements through arbitration or judicial agencies may be costly and time-consuming and will be subject to uncertainties in China's legal system. Moreover, our remedies under the equity pledge agreements are primarily intended to help us collect debts owed to us by the VIEs or the VIEs' shareholders under the contractual arrangements and may not help us in acquiring the assets or equity of the VIEs.. The contractual arrangements with our VIEs may be subject to scrutiny by China's tax authorities. Any adjustment of related party transaction pricing could lead to additional taxes, and therefore substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment.. The tax regime in China is rapidly evolving and there is significant uncertainty for Chinese taxpayers as Chinese tax laws may be interpreted in significantly different ways. China's tax authorities may assert that we or the VIEs or their shareholders are required to pay additional taxes on previous or future revenue or income. In particular, under applicable Chinese laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties, such as the contractual arrangements with our VIEs, may be subject to audit or challenge by China's tax authorities. If China's tax authorities determine that any contractual arrangements were not entered into on an arm's length basis and therefore constitute a favorable transfer pricing, the China tax liabilities of the relevant subsidiaries, VIEs or VIE shareholders could be increased, which could increase our overall tax liabilities. In addition, China's tax authorities may impose interest on late payments. Our net income may be materially reduced if our tax liabilities increase. It is uncertain whether any new China laws, rules or regulations relating to VIE structures will be adopted or, if adopted, what they would provide.. If we or any of our VIEs are found to be in violation of any existing or future China laws, rules or regulations, or if we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant China regulatory authorities would have broad discretion to take action in dealing with these violations or failures, including revoking the business and operating licenses of our China subsidiaries or the VIEs, requiring us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restricting our right to collect revenue, blocking one or more of our websites, requiring us to restructure our operations or taking other regulatory or enforcement actions against us. The imposition of any of these measures could result in a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct all or any portion of our business operations. In addition, it is unclear what impact Chinese government actions would have on us and on our ability to consolidate the financial results of any of our VIEs in our consolidated financial statements, if China's governmental authorities were to find our legal structure and contractual arrangements to be in violation of China laws, rules and regulations. If the imposition of any governmental actions causes us to lose our right to direct the activities of any of our material VIEs or otherwise separate from any of these entities, and if we are not able to restructure our ownership structure and. Table of Contents 17. operations in a satisfactory manner, we would no longer be able to consolidate the financial results of our VIEs in our consolidated financial statements. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The shareholders, directors and executive officers of the VIEs may have potential conflicts of interest with us.. Our VIEs are owned by members of our management team.  In addition, these individuals are also directors and officers of the VIEs. Chinese laws provide that a director and an executive officer owe a fiduciary duty to the company he or she directs or manages. The directors and executive officers of the VIEs must therefore act in good faith and in the best interests of the VIEs, and must not use their respective positions for personal gain. These laws, however, do not require them to consider the best interests of Remark when making decisions as a director or member of the management of the VIEs. Conflicts may arise between these individuals' fiduciary duties as directors and officers of the VIEs and Remark.. Conflicts of interest may also arise due to the individuals' roles as shareholders of the VIEs and their duties as our employees.  The shareholders of the VIEs may breach, or cause the VIEs to breach, the VIE contracts.  As a result, we might have to rely on legal or arbitral proceedings to enforce our contractual rights. Any failure by our VIEs or their shareholders to perform their obligations under the contractual arrangements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our substantial indebtedness and other payment obligations could adversely affect our financial health.. We have outstanding principal indebtedness of $35.5 million under the Loan. The Loan amount outstanding accrues interest at the three-month LIBOR (with a floor of 1%) plus 10.0% per annum, payable monthly, and the Loan has a maturity date of September 24, 2018. The Loan is secured by a first-priority lien on, and security interest in, all assets of Remark and our subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions.. The Financing Agreement and related documents also provide for certain fees payable to the Lenders, including a $3.5 million exit fee and for the issuance of warrants to purchase shares of our common stock.. We also have outstanding principal indebtedness of $3.0 million under the short-term note payable describe earlier in this section.. Our substantial indebtedness and other payment obligations could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for working capital and general corporate purposes;. • increase our vulnerability to and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and. • make us more vulnerable to a general economic downturn than a company that is less leveraged.. Table of Contents 18. The Financing Agreement contains certain covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions.. The Financing Agreement, as amended, requires us to satisfy various covenants, including financial covenants with respect to quarterly earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (\"EBITDA\") levels of Vegas.com, quarterly revenue generated by KanKan and the value of our assets. The Financing Agreement also contains restrictions on our abilities to engage in certain transactions without the consent of the Lenders, and may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. These restrictions include, among other things, limitations on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:. • create liens on assets to secure debt;. • incur additional debt;. • merge or consolidate with another company;. • transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of assets;. • engage in other businesses;. • make investments;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • create dividend and other payment restrictions affecting subsidiaries.. Our inability to comply with the financial covenants under the Financing Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. If we fail to comply with any financial covenant under the Financing Agreement going forward, under certain circumstances after a cure period, the Lender may demand the repayment of the Loan amount outstanding and unpaid interest thereon, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We continue to evolve our business strategy and develop new brands, products and services, and our future prospects are difficult to evaluate.. We are in varying stages of development with regard to our business, including our nascent technology and data intelligence business, so our prospects must be considered in light of the many risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development.  Some of such risks and difficulties include our ability to, among other things:. • increase the number of users of our websites and mobile applications;. • manage and implement new business strategies;. • successfully commercialize and monetize our assets;. • successfully attract advertisers for our owned and operated websites;. • continue to raise additional working capital;. • manage operating expenses;. • establish and take advantage of strategic relationships;. • successfully avoid diversion of management's attention or of other resources from our existing business. Table of Contents 19. • successfully avoid impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from acquisitions;. • prevent, or successfully temper, adverse market reaction to acquisitions;. • manage and adapt to rapidly changing and expanding operations;. • respond effectively to competitive developments; and. • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. Because of the early stage of development of certain of our business operations, we cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful or that it will successfully address the risks described or alluded to above.  Any failure by us to successfully implement our new business plans could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, growth into new areas may require changes to our cost structure, modifications to our infrastructure and exposure to new regulatory, legal and competitive risks.. If we fail to manage our growth, we may need to improve our operational, financial and management systems and processes which may require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate new employees, including employees in international markets, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations and business.. We cannot assure you that these investments will be successful or that such endeavors will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible or that we will achieve these benefits within a reasonable period of time.. If we are not able to attract and retain key management, we may not successfully integrate the acquired assets into our historical business or achieve our other business objectives.. We will depend upon the contributions of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technology Officer, for our future business success. The loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management may significantly delay or prevent the integration of the contributed assets and other business objectives.. Our investment in Sharecare's equity securities involves a substantial degree of risk.. Sharecare operates in the highly-competitive Internet industry and might not achieve profitability or consumer acceptance in the near term, if ever. Our investment in Sharecare's equity securities is illiquid and might fail to appreciate and might decline in value or become worthless. It is unlikely our Sharecare equity securities will pay current dividends, and our ability to realize a return on our investment, as well as to recover our investment, will be dependent on the success of Sharecare.. Even if Sharecare is successful, our ability to realize the value of our investment might be limited. Because it is a private company, there is no public market for Sharecare's securities, and the Sharecare securities are subject to restrictions on resale that might prevent us from selling these securities during periods in which it would be advantageous to do so. As a result, we might have to wait for a liquidity event, such as a public offering or the sale of Sharecare, to realize the value of our investment, if any.. Sharecare may need to raise additional capital, or make additional acquisitions, and our equity position in Sharecare may be diluted if Sharecare issues additional equity, options, or warrants. If Sharecare makes a capital call of its existing equity holders, our position may be diluted if we choose not to contribute additional capital.. Table of Contents 20. We could incur further asset impairment charges for intangible assets or other long-lived assets.. We have intangible assets and other long-lived assets, therefore future lower-than-anticipated financial performance or changes in estimates and assumptions, which in many cases require significant judgment, could result in impairment charges. We test intangible assets that are determined to have an indefinite life for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and assess whether factors or indicators, such as unfavorable variances from established business plans, significant changes in forecasted results or volatility inherent to external markets and industries, become apparent that would require an interim test. Adverse changes in the operating environment and related key assumptions used to determine the fair value of our indefinite lived intangible assets or declines in the value of our common stock may result in future impairment charges for a portion or all of these assets. Any further impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, but would not be expected to have an impact on our cash flows or liquidity.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Our stock price has fluctuated considerably and is likely to remain volatile, and various factors could negatively affect the market price or market for our common stock.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. From January 1, 2016, through March 28, 2018, the high and low sales prices for our common stock were $15.10 and $1.93, respectively. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • general market and economic conditions;. • the low trading volume and limited public market for our common stock;. • minimal third-party research regarding our company; and. • the current and anticipated future operating performance and equity valuation of Sharecare, in which we have a significant equity investment.. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance.. The concentration of our stock ownership may limit individual stockholder ability to influence corporate matters.. As of March 28, 2018, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kai-Shing Tao, may be deemed to beneficially own 10,200,634 shares, or 27.4% of our common stock and Ernest T. Lee may be deemed to beneficially own 2,193,336 shares, or 6.7% of our common stock. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders, and might affect the prevailing market price for our securities.. If these stockholders act together, they may be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate actions. Such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Sales of our common stock to Aspire Capital may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Aspire Capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. Pursuant to our public equity line with Aspire Capital, we issued 151,515 shares of our common stock and, upon the terms and subject to the conditions and limitations set forth therein, we may sell as much as an aggregate of $20 million of our common stock to Aspire Capital from time to time over the 30-month term of the Aspire Purchase Agreement, which expires May 9, 2019. The number of shares ultimately sold to Aspire Capital is dependent upon our election to sell to Aspire Capital under the Aspire Purchase Agreement. Depending on a variety of factors, including market liquidity of our common stock, the sale of shares under the Aspire Purchase Agreement may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Table of Contents 21. After Aspire Capital has acquired shares under the Aspire Purchase Agreement, it may sell all, some or none of those shares. Sales to Aspire Capital pursuant to the Aspire Purchase Agreement may result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock to Aspire Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise desire. However, we have the right under the Aspire Purchase Agreement to control the timing and amount of sales of our shares to Aspire Capital, and the Aspire Purchase Agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any penalty or cost to us. As of March 28, 2018, we have sold 4,121,896 shares of common stock to Aspire Capital in exchange for $12.8 million pursuant to the Aspire Purchase Agreement.. A significant number of additional shares of our common stock may be issued under the terms of existing securities, which issuances would substantially dilute existing stockholders and may depress the market price of our common stock.. As of March 28, 2018, we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 10.9 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 9,711,774 shares of common stock. The number of outstanding warrants include certain of the CBG Acquisition Warrants and the CBG Financing Warrants, providing for the right to purchase 40,000 and 2,961,774 shares of common stock, respectively, at per-share exercise prices of $10.00 and $4.96, respectively, and it also includes additional unissued CBG Acquisition Warrants allowing for the purchase of 5,710,000 shares of common stock at a per-share exercise price of $10.00 (we have already accounted for the liability associated with such unissued CBG Acquisition Warrants in our consolidated balance sheet as part of the line item Warrant liability). The CBG Acquisition Warrants and the CBG Financing Warrants are exercisable on a cashless basis only. As a result of the cashless exercise requirement, neither the CBG Acquisition Warrants nor the CBG Financing Warrants can be exercised for the entire amount of shares purchasable under the warrants, and they effectively cannot be exercised to purchase shares of common stock unless the applicable market value of the common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price under the terms thereof.. Though the CBG Acquisition Warrants cannot be exercised unless the applicable market value of the common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price under the terms thereof, they also provide that if the closing price of our common stock does not exceed the sum of $10.00 per share plus the fair value of the CBG Acquisition Warrants at the time of issuance (the \"Assumed Warrant Value\") for any 15 individual trading days in any consecutive 30-trading-day period between the closing date and September 20, 2020, we will issue on September 20, 2020, in exchange for the CBG Acquisition Warrants, such number of shares of common stock equal to (x) the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the CBG Acquisition Warrants, multiplied by (y) 50% of the Assumed Warrant Value, divided by (z) the volume weighted average price of our common stock during the 30 trading days ending on September 20, 2020.. The issuance of common stock pursuant to the warrants described above would substantially dilute the proportionate ownership and voting power of existing stockholders, and their issuance, or the possibility of their issuance, may depress the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of Remark more difficult, which acquisition may be beneficial to stockholders.. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, as well as provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (\"DGCL\"), which may discourage, delay or prevent a merger with, acquisition of or other change in control of Remark, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders, include the following:. • only our Board of Directors may call special meetings of our stockholders;. • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent;. • we have authorized, undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval.. Additionally, Section 203 of the DGCL prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess. Table of Contents 22. of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. We have not opted out of the restriction under Section 203, as permitted under DGCL.. Further, we have adopted a Tax Benefit Preservation Plan, dated as of June 4, 2015, that generally is designed to deter any person from acquiring shares of our common stock if the acquisition would result in such person beneficially owning 4.99% or more of our common stock without the approval of our Board of Directors. The Tax Benefit Preservation Plan expires on June 4, 2018."
