[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. The risks disclosed below, either alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company.. Risks Related To Our Business and Industry. Our business may be adversely affected by current economic conditions in general and specifically in our Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Florida and Georgia markets.. General business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad can materially affect our business and operations.  A weak U.S. economy is likely to cause uncertainty about the federal fiscal policymaking process, the medium and long-term fiscal outlook of the federal government and future tax rates.  In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder U.S. economic growth.. Weak economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity.  Although interest rates have risen in the last year, rates remain at low levels from a historical perspective, which impacts our ability to attract deposits and to generate attractive earnings through our investment portfolio.  All of these factors are detrimental to our business, and the interplay between these factors can be complex and unpredictable.  Our business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies.  Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control.  Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. More particularly, much of our business development and marketing strategy is directed toward fulfilling the banking and financial services needs of small to medium size businesses.  Such businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities.  If general economic conditions negatively impact our Mississippi, Tennessee, Alabama, Florida and Georgia markets generally and these businesses are adversely affected, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.. We are subject to lending risk.. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate as well as those across the United States. Increases in interest rates on loans and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 66.93% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk to our financial condition than other types of loans due primarily to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our commercial, construction and commercial real estate loan portfolios are discussed in more detail under the heading \"Operations  -  Operations of Community Banks\" in Item 1, Business.. We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 84.05% of our loan portfolio had real estate as a primary or secondary component of the collateral securing the loan. The real estate provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of a default by the borrower. Real estate values have generally recovered since the recent recession, but any adverse change in our markets could significantly impair the value of the particular collateral securing our loans and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure for an amount necessary to satisfy the borrower's obligations to us. Furthermore, in a declining real estate market, we often will need to further increase our allowance for loan losses to address the deterioration in the value of the real estate securing our loans. This was the case from 2008 to 2012. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 21. We have a concentration of credit exposure in commercial real estate.. In addition to the general risks associated with our lending activities described above, including the effects of declines in real estate values, commercial real estate (\"CRE\") loans are subject to additional risks. These loans depend on cash flows from the property to service the debt. Cash flows, either in the form of rental income or the proceeds from sales of commercial real estate, may be affected significantly by general economic conditions. A general downturn in the local economy where the property is located, or a decline in occupancy rates in particular, could increase the likelihood of default.   An increase in defaults in our CRE loan portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $4.2 billion in commercial real estate loans, representing approximately 54.59% of our loans outstanding on that date, as follows:. (thousands) December 31, 2017   Commercial Real Estate Owner-occupied $ 1,374,455   Non-owner occupied 1,873,692   Construction 633,389   Land Development:   1-4 family mortgage 99,225   Commercial mortgage 179,383   Total Commercial real estate loans $ 4,160,144. As discussed under the heading \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1, Business, above, the federal banking agencies promulgated guidance regarding when an institution will be deemed to potentially have significant CRE concentration risk exposure, as indicated by the results of the 100/300 Test.  Although the 100/300 Test is not a limit on our lending activity, if any future results of a 100/300 Test evaluation show us to have a potential CRE concentration risk, we may elect, or be required by our regulators, to adopt additional risk management practices or other limits on our activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information furnished by others about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we often rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, other financial information and appraisals of the value of collateral. We may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, other financial information or appraisals could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. Our allowance for possible loan losses may be insufficient, and we may be required to further increase our provision for loan losses.. Although we try to maintain diversification within our loan portfolio in order to minimize the effect of economic conditions within a particular industry, management also maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the entire loan portfolio. The appropriate level of the allowance is based on management's ongoing analysis of the loan portfolio and represents an amount that management deems adequate to provide for inherent losses, including collateral impairment. Among other considerations in establishing the allowance for loan losses, management considers economic conditions reflected within industry segments, the unemployment rate in our markets, loan segmentation and historical losses that are inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses.. The recent recession in the United States highlighted the inherent difficulty in estimating with precision the extent to which credit risks and future trends need to be addressed through a provision to our allowance for loan losses. Any worsening of current economic conditions could cause us to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 22. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A discussion of the policies and procedures related to management's process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is set forth under the heading \"Risk Management  -  Credit Risk and Allowance for Loan Losses\" in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. We are subject to interest rate risk.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets, such as loans and securities, and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. In light of improving labor markets and its assessment of the rate of inflation, the Federal Reserve has increased the federal funds target rate by 25 basis points five times since December 2015 and has indicated that continued gradual increases in the federal funds target rate in 2018 are warranted by economic conditions. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (1) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee income generated, and (2) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities.. Our financial results are constantly exposed to market risk.. Market risk refers to the probability of variations in net interest income or the fair value of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates, among other things. The primary source of market risk to us is the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. We are subject to market risk because of the following factors:. -  Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times. For example, if assets reprice more slowly than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings may initially decline.  -  Assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts. For example, when interest rates are generally rising, we may increase rates charged on loans by an amount that is less than the general increase in market interest rates because of intense pricing competition, while similarly-intense pricing competition for deposits dictates that we raise our deposit rates in line with the general increase in market rates. Also, risk occurs when assets and liabilities have similar repricing frequencies but are tied to different market interest rate indices that may not move in tandem.  -  Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts, i.e., the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently.  -  The remaining maturity of various assets and liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. For example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, mortgage-backed securities held in our securities portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income. If prepayment rates increase, we would be required to amortize net premiums into income over a shorter period of time, thereby reducing the corresponding asset yield and net interest income.  -  Interest rates may have an indirect impact on loan demand, credit losses, loan origination volume, the value of financial assets and financial liabilities, gains and losses on sales of securities and loans, the value of mortgage servicing rights and other sources of earnings.. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce market risk on the results of our operations, these strategies are based on assumptions that may be incorrect. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Volatility in interest rates may also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government and Agency securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements. Disintermediation could also result in material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. A discussion of our policies and procedures used to identify, assess and manage certain interest rate risk is set forth under the heading \"Risk Management  -  Interest Rate Risk\" in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. 23. Liquidity needs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Maintaining adequate liquidity is crucial to the operation of our business.  We need sufficient liquidity to meet customer loan requests, deposit maturities and withdrawals and other cash commitments arising in both the ordinary course of business and in other unpredictable circumstances.  We rely on dividends from the Bank as our primary source of funds. The primary source of the Bank's funds are customer deposits, loan repayments and proceeds from our investment securities. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, they are subject to the ability of borrowers to repay the loans. The ability of borrowers to repay loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors, including changes in economic conditions, adverse trends or events affecting business industry groups, reductions in real estate values or markets, business closings or lay-offs, inclement weather, natural disasters and international instability.  Additionally, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Accordingly, we may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations or to support growth. Such sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks.. If the aforementioned sources of liquidity are not adequate for our needs, we may attempt to raise additional capital in the equity or debt markets. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in such markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance.. If we are unable to meet our liquidity needs through any of the aforementioned sources, whether at all or at the time or the cost that we anticipate, we may be required to slow or discontinue loan growth, capital expenditures or other investments or liquidate assets.. A failure or breach of our operational or security systems, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation and create significant financial and legal exposure for us.. As a financial institution, we rely heavily on our ability, and the ability of our third party service providers, to securely process, record, transmit and monitor confidential and other information through our and our third party service provider's computer systems and networks.  Our operational systems, including, among other things, deposit and loan servicing, online banking, wealth management, accounting and data processing, could be materially adversely impacted by a failure, interruption or breach in the security or integrity of any of these systems, whether our own or one of our third party service provider's.  Threats to these systems come from a variety of sources, including computer hacking involving the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks, electronic fraudulent activity and attempted theft of financial assets.  These threats are very sophisticated and constantly evolving.. We have invested a significant amount of time and expense, in both security infrastructure investments and the development of policies and procedures governing our operations, in our efforts to ensure the security and integrity of our systems from the aforementioned threats, and we continue to upgrade our systems and evolve our policies and procedures to address vulnerabilities that we identify as well as new techniques being used to compromise our systems of which we become aware, especially as we expand our mobile and online banking presence.  In addition, we require our third party service providers to be similarly diligent in protecting their own systems from such existing and new threats.  Despite these efforts, we can provide no assurances that our systems, or our provider's systems, will not experience any failures, interruptions or security breaches or that, if any such failures, interruptions or breaches occur, they will be addressed in a timely and adequate manner.  If the security and integrity of our systems, or the systems of one of our providers, are compromised, our operations could be significantly disrupted and our or our customer's confidential information could be misappropriated, among other things.  This in turn could result in financial losses to us or our customers, damage to our reputation, the violation of privacy or other laws and significant litigation risk, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.. We are subject to numerous risks, including lending risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, market risk and model risk, among other risks encountered in the ordinary course of our operations.  We have put in place processes and procedures designed to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze these risks. However, all risk management frameworks are inherently limited when current procedures cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks, and we may have underestimated the impact of known risks.  The recent recession and the heightened regulatory scrutiny of financial institutions that resulted therefrom, coupled with increases in the scope and complexity of our operations, among other things, have increased the level of risk that we must manage.  Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks.. 24. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. We have grown our business through the acquisition of entire financial institutions and through de novo branching. Since the beginning of 2011, we have opened eight de novo branches, acquired specified assets and the operations of, and assumed specified liabilities of, failed financial institutions in two FDIC-assisted transactions and acquired the RBC Bank (USA) trust division.  We also have engaged in whole-bank acquisitions, most recently acquiring Metropolitan and its wholly-owned subsidiary Metropolitan Bank on July 1, 2017. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through de novo branching and to evaluate attractive acquisition opportunities that are presented to us. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies when expanding their franchise, including the following:. Management of Growth.  We may be unable to successfully:. -  maintain loan quality in the context of significant loan growth;  -  maintain adequate management personnel and systems to oversee such growth;  -  maintain adequate internal audit, loan review and compliance functions; and  -  implement additional policies, procedures and operating systems required to support such growth.. Operating Results. Existing offices or future offices may not maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth and de novo branching strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as we routinely add new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices. Should any new location be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or should any existing location experience a decline in profitability or incur losses, the adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition could be more significant than would be the case for a larger company.. Development of Offices. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our de novo branches can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in opening any of our de novo branches. We may be unable to accomplish future branch expansion plans due to a lack of available satisfactory sites, difficulties in acquiring such sites, increased expenses or loss of potential sites due to complexities associated with zoning and permitting processes, higher than anticipated merger and acquisition costs or other factors. Finally, our de novo branches or branches that we may acquire may not be successful even after they have been established or acquired, as the case may be.. Expansion into New Markets. Much of our recent growth has been focused in the highly-competitive metropolitan areas of Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee, Birmingham and Huntsville, Alabama, Atlanta, Georgia, east Tennessee, as well as Gainesville and Ocala, Florida. In these growth markets we face competition from a wide array of financial institutions, including much larger, well-established financial institutions.  Our acquisition of Metropolitan increased our presence in the Memphis and Nashville, Tennessee markets as well as in Jackson, Mississippi, a highly attractive and competitive market.. Regulatory and Economic Factors. Our growth and expansion plans may be adversely affected by a number of regulatory and economic developments or other events. Failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in laws and regulations or other regulatory developments and changes in prevailing economic conditions or other unanticipated events may prevent or adversely affect our continued growth and expansion. Such factors may cause us to alter our growth and expansion plans or slow or halt the growth and expansion process, which may prevent us from entering certain target markets or allow competitors to gain or retain market share in our existing or expected markets.. Failure to successfully address these issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our recent and pending acquisitions.. The success of our acquisitions, including our recently completed acquisition of Metropolitan, will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize anticipated cost savings and to integrate the acquired assets and operations in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt our existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Additionally, we will make fair value estimates of certain. 25. assets and liabilities in recording each acquisition. Actual values of these assets and liabilities could differ from our estimates, which could result in our not achieving the anticipated benefits of the particular acquisition.. We cannot assure investors that our acquisitions will have positive results, including results relating to: correctly assessing the asset quality of the assets acquired; the total cost of integration, including management attention and resources; the time required to complete the integration successfully; the amount of longer-term cost savings; being able to profitably deploy funds acquired in the transaction; retaining the existing client relationships; or the overall performance of the combined business.. Our future growth and profitability depends, in part, on our ability to successfully manage the combined operations. Integration of an acquired business can be complex and costly, and we may encounter a number of difficulties, such as:. -  deposit attrition, customer loss and revenue loss;  -  the loss of key employees;  -  the disruption of our operations and business;  -  our inability to maintain and increase competitive presence;  -  possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies; and/or  -  unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit.. Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit our successful integration of the operations acquired.. We may continue to experience increased credit costs or need to take additional markdowns and make additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses on purchased loans. Any of these actions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future. In addition, as our integration efforts continue in connection with the Metropolitan acquisition, we may incur other unanticipated costs, including the diversion of personnel, or losses. In addition, the attention and effort devoted to the integration of an acquired business may divert management's attention from other important issues and could harm our business.. We may face risks with respect to future acquisitions.. When we attempt to expand our business through mergers and acquisitions (including FDIC-assisted transactions), we seek targets that are culturally similar to us, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through economies of scale or expanded services or, in the case of FDIC-assisted transactions, on account of the loss share arrangements with the FDIC associated with such transactions. In addition to the general risks associated with our growth plans and the particular risks associated with FDIC-assisted transactions, both of which are highlighted above, in general acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. -  the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition and merger targets;  -  inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution;  -  the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new bank locations, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion;  -  our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders;  -  the diversion of our management's attention to the negotiation of a transaction;  -  the incurrence of an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and adverse effects on our results of operations;  -  entry into new markets where we lack experience; and  -  risks associated with integrating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses.. We expect to continue to evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities (including FDIC-assisted transactions) that are presented to us and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Historically, acquisitions of non-failed financial institutions involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 26. Our profitability may be negatively impacted by changes in the amount and timing of the resolution of purchased impaired loans.. Under applicable accounting standards, we are required to periodically re-estimate the expected cash flows from impaired loans that we have purchased as part of our acquisition transactions.  The carrying value of these loans can be impaired due to lower-than-expected cash flows, increases in loss estimates or defaults.  Any such impairment must be recognized in the period in which the change in estimated cash flow occurs.  Any such impairment will reduce our results of operations and profitability, and such reduction could be material.. Competition in our industry is intense and may adversely affect our profitability.. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than we have, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies, FinTech companies and other financial intermediaries. The information under the heading \"Competition\" in Item 1, Business, provides more information regarding the competitive conditions in our growth markets.. Our industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. The consolidation of financial institutions in connection with the 2008-2009 recession has continued to the present time, and we expect additional consolidation to occur as a result of, among other things, elevated regulatory compliance costs and changes in laws affecting larger financial institutions. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, legislative and regulatory changes on both the federal and state level may materially affect competitive conditions in our industry. Finally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures.. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:. -  the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe and sound assets;  -  the ability to expand our market position;  -  the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands;  -  the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;  -  customer satisfaction with our level of service; and  -  industry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions and other third parties.. Entities within the financial services industry are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties and from time to time execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit due to us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and such regulation could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings.. We and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. In addition, significant changes to such regulations, including the repeal of parts of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations, have been proposed or. 27. may be proposed in light of the policy changes resulting from the change in the presidential administration.  Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of the foregoing, could affect us and/or the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, we and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If we fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to maintain the status of \"well capitalized\" under our regulatory framework could affect the confidence of our customers in us, thus compromising our competitive position. In addition, failure to maintain the status of \"well capitalized\" under our regulatory framework, \"well managed\" under regulatory examination procedures or \"satisfactory\" under the CRA could compromise our status as a bank holding company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for merger or acquisition proposals and would result in higher deposit insurance premiums assessed by the FDIC.. We are also subject to various privacy, data protection and information security laws.  Under the GLB Act, we are subject to limitations on our ability to share our customers' nonpublic personal information with unaffiliated parties, and we are required to provide certain disclosures to our customers about out data collection and security practices.  Customers have the right to opt out of our disclosure of their personal financial information to unaffiliated parties.  Finally, the GLB Act requires us to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards for our customers' nonpublic personal information.  New laws and regulations have also been proposed that could increase our privacy, data protection and information security compliance costs.  Our failure to comply with new or existing privacy, data protection and information security laws and regulations could result in material regulatory or governmental investigations and/or fines, sanctions and other expenses.. As a public company, we are also subject to laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act and SEC regulations. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, amendment or outright repeal.  As a result, the amendment or repeal of any such laws, regulations or standards, or the issuance of new guidance for complying therewith by regulatory and governing bodies, could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention.. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and/or civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, such violations nevertheless may occur. The information under the heading \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1, Business, and Note 24, \"Regulatory Matters,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, provides more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we and the Bank operate.. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition.. In order to replenish the Deposit Insurance Fund following the recession in 2008-2009, the FDIC significantly increased the assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance.  In 2016, the targeted ratio of the DIF to insured deposits was achieved, which allowed banks with assets less than $10 billion to have a reduction in costs.  However, banks with greater than $10 billion in assets will continue to have higher assessed rates until the DIF ratio reaches 1.35%.  Additionally, under the Dodd-Frank Act, if the FDIC increases reserves against future losses, the increased assessments are to be borne primarily by institutions with assets greater than $10 billion, which will apply to the Company if and when we exceed $10 billion in assets.  Any increases in FDIC insurance premiums and any special assessments may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We will be subject to heightened regulatory requirements if we exceed $10 billion in assets.. As discussed under the heading \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1, Business, the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations promulgated thereunder impose additional requirements on bank holding companies with total assets of at least $10 billion, including compliance with annual stress testing requirements. In addition, banks with total assets of at least $10 billion are primarily examined by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with respect to various federal consumer financial protection laws and regulations. Although Renasant Bank currently is subject to CFPB regulations, the FDIC is primarily responsible for examining our compliance with consumer protection laws and CFPB regulations.  Finally, if and when we exceed $10 billion in assets as of the end of a fiscal year, we will be subject to the limitation on interchange fees imposed pursuant to the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act.. 28. To prepare for the Company being subject to additional regulations once it exceeds $10 billion in assets, we have incurred a number of significant expenses relating to, among other things, the implementation of additional internal controls and procedures relating to stress testing, and we expect to incur additional expenses once the Company does in fact exceed $10 billion in assets.  Further, if and when we exceed $10 billion in assets as of the end of a fiscal year, the impact of the Durbin Amendment is anticipated to reduce our noninterest income. These additional expenses and the expected decrease in interchange fee revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the results of our annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be misinterpreted by the market generally or our customers, which may in turn adversely affect our stock price or our ability to retain our customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities. Our regulators may also consider our preparation for compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining our operations generally or considering any request for regulatory approval we may make, even requests for approvals on unrelated matters such as acquisitions of other financial institutions.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (\"GAAP\"), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting developments that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual reports on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are assessing the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted on December 22, 2017. This legislation required that we revalue our deferred tax items in the fourth quarter of 2017, based on the new corporate income tax rate. As we continue evaluating these items during 2018, subsequent adjustments could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For additional information see Note 16, \"Income Taxes,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating a bank of our size. Competition for such personnel can be intense in the banking industry, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. The unexpected loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements.. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although management has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before the loan is recorded and before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events, such as Hurricane Irma in September 2017, which impacted our Florida markets, and the April 2011 storms that devastated much of east Mississippi and west Alabama, could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established. 29. disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Associated With Our Common Stock. Our stock price can be volatile.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for an investor to resell our common stock when desired and at attractive prices. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things:. -  actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations;  -  recommendations by securities analysts;  -  operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us;  -  news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the banking and financial services industry;  -  perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and/or our competitors;  -  new technology used, or services offered, by us or our competitors;  -  significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;  -  failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions;  -  changes in government regulations; and  -  geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts.. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results.. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other bank holding companies.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is generally less than that of many of our competitors and other bank holding companies that are publicly-traded companies.  For the two months ended February 23, 2018, the average daily trading volume for Renasant common stock was 149,306 shares per day. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause volatility in the price of our common stock.. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited by law, and we may be unable to pay future dividends.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and we receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The information under Note 23, \"Restrictions on Cash, Securities, Bank Dividends, Loans or Advances,\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, provides a detailed discussion about the restrictions governing the Bank's ability to transfer funds to us.. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders.. We have supported a portion of our growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. Also, in connection with our acquisitions of other financial institutions, we have assumed junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2017, we had trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures with a carrying value of $85.9 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock (such dividend restrictions do not apply to the subordinated notes issued in August 2016 or assumed in connection with the Metropolitan acquisition). We. 30. have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock.. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, an investor may lose some or all of his investment in our common stock.. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as certain banking laws, could decrease our chances of being acquired even if our acquisition is in our shareholders' best interests.. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions impedes a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover.. Our shareholders authorized the Board of Directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our shareholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our shareholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction perceived to be favorable to our shareholders.. Shares eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect.. Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale, including those that may be issued in any other private or public offering of our common stock for cash or as incentives under incentive plans, could have a dilutive effect on the market for our common stock and could adversely affect market prices. As of February 23, 2018, there were 150,000,000 shares of our common stock authorized, of which 49,335,631 shares were outstanding.. The FDIC's Statement of Policy on Qualifications for Failed Bank Acquisitions may restrict our activities and those of certain investors in us.. On August 26, 2009, the FDIC adopted the final Statement of Policy on Qualifications for Failed Bank Acquisitions (the \"Statement\"). The Statement purports to provide guidance concerning the standards for more than de minimis investments in acquirers of deposit liabilities and the operations of failed insured depository institutions. The Statement applies to private investors in a company, including any company acquired to facilitate bidding on failed banks or thrifts that is proposing to, directly or indirectly, assume deposit liabilities, or such liabilities and assets, from the resolution of a failed insured depository institution. By its terms, the Statement does not apply to investors with 5% or less of the total voting power of an acquired depository institution or its bank or thrift holding company (provided there is no evidence of concerted action by these investors). When applicable, among other things, covered investors (other than certain mutual funds) are prohibited by the Statement from selling their securities in the relevant institution for three years. In addition, covered investors must disclose to the FDIC information about the investors and all entities in the ownership chain, including information as to the size of the capital fund or funds, its diversification, the return profile, the marketing documents, the management team and the business model, as well as such other information as is determined to be necessary to assure compliance with the Statement. Furthermore, among other restrictions, the acquired institution must maintain a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to total assets of at least 10% for a period of three years from the time of acquisition; thereafter, the institution must maintain capital such that it is \"well capitalized\" during the remaining period of ownership by the covered investor. In addition, under the Statement, covered investors employing ownership structures utilizing entities that are domiciled in Secrecy Law Jurisdictions (as defined in the Statement) would not be eligible to own a direct or indirect interest in an insured depository institution, subject to certain exceptions.. The Statement may be applicable to private investors in us and, in the event of any such private investors covered by the Statement, will be applicable to us. Furthermore, because the applicability of the Statement depends in large part on the specific investor, we may not know at any given point in time whether the Statement applies to any investor and, accordingly, to us. Each investor must. 31. make its own determination concerning whether the Statement applies to it and its investment in us. Each investor is cautioned to consult its own legal advisors concerning such matters. We cannot assure investors that the Statement will not be applicable to us."
