[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS. An investment in Republic Bancorp, Inc.'s (\"Republic\" or the \"Company\") common stock is subject to risks inherent in its business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this filing. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. The value or market price of the Company's common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and an investor could lose all or part of their investment.. There are factors, many beyond the Company's control, which may significantly change the results or expectations of the Company. Some of these factors are described below, however, many are described in the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. ACCOUNTING POLICIES/ESTIMATES, ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERNAL CONTROL. The Company's accounting policies and estimates are critical components of the Company's presentation of its financial statements. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and adopting various accounting policies and in applying estimates. Actual outcomes may be materially different from amounts previously estimated. Management has identified several accounting policies and estimates as being critical to the presentation of the Company's financial statements. These policies are described in Part II Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" under the section titled \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.\" The Company's management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many accounting policies and methods in order to comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report the Company's financial condition and results. In some cases, management may select an accounting policy that might be reasonable under the circumstances, yet might result in the Company's reporting different results than would have been reported under a different alternative. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates.. Republic Bank & Trust Company (\"RB&T\" or the \"Bank\") may experience goodwill impairment, which could reduce its earnings. The Bank performed its annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2017 as of September 30, 2017. The evaluation of the fair value of goodwill requires management judgment. If management's judgment was incorrect and goodwill impairment was later deemed to exist, the Bank would be required to write down its goodwill resulting in a charge to earnings, which would adversely affect its results of operations, perhaps materially.. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact the Company's financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how the Company records and reports its financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, those who interpret the accounting standards, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"), the banking regulators and the Company's independent registered public accounting firm may amend or reverse their previous interpretations or conclusions regarding how various standards should be applied. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Company recasting, or possibly restating, prior period financial statements. See additional discussion regarding accounting standard updates in Part II Item 8 \"Financial Statements and Supplemental Data\" under the section titled \"Accounting Standards Updates.\". If the Company does not maintain strong internal controls and procedures, it may impact profitability. Management reviews and updates its internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures on a routine basis. This system is designed to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the internal controls comply with appropriate regulatory guidance. Any undetected circumvention of these controls could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Table of Contents. If the Bank's other real estate owned (\"OREO\") portfolio is not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if the Bank is required to increase its valuation reserves, the Bank's earnings could be reduced. Management typically obtains updated valuations in the form of appraisals and broker price opinions when a loan has been foreclosed and the property is taken in as OREO and at certain other times during the asset's holding period. The Bank's net book value of the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A writedown is recorded for any excess in the asset's net book value over its fair value. If the Bank's valuation process is incorrect, or if property values decline, the fair value of the Bank's OREO may not be sufficient to recover its carrying value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional writedowns. Significant additional writedowns to OREO could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. TRADITIONAL BANK LENDING AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES (\"ALLOWANCE\"). The Allowance could be insufficient to cover the Bank's actual loan losses. The Bank makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of its borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of its loans. In determining the amount of the Allowance, among other things, the Bank reviews its loss and delinquency experience, economic conditions, etc. If its assumptions are incorrect, the Allowance may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio, resulting in additions to its Allowance. In addition, regulatory agencies periodically review the Allowance and may require the Bank to increase its provision for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. A material increase in the Allowance or loan charge-offs would have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. Deterioration in the quality of the Traditional Banking loan portfolio may result in additional charge-offs, which would adversely impact the Bank's operating results. Despite the various measures implemented by the Bank to address the economic environment, there may be further deterioration in the Bank's loan portfolio. When borrowers default on their loan obligations, it may result in lost principal and interest income and increased operating expenses associated with the increased allocation of management time and resources associated with the collection efforts. In certain situations where collection efforts are unsuccessful or acceptable \"work-out\" arrangements cannot be reached or performed, the Bank may charge-off loans, either in part or in whole. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect the Bank's operating results and financial condition.. The Bank's financial condition and earnings could be negatively impacted to the extent the Bank relies on borrower information that is false, misleading or inaccurate. The Bank relies on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by vendors, clients and other parties in deciding whether to extend credit, or enter into transactions with other parties. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect the Bank's operating results and financial condition.. The Bank's use of appraisals as part of the decision process to make a loan on or secured by real property does not ensure the value of the real property collateral. As part of the decision process to make a loan secured by real property, the Bank generally requires an independent third-party appraisal of the real property.  An appraisal, however, is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made.  An error in fact or judgment could adversely affect the reliability of the appraisal. In addition, events occurring after the initial appraisal may cause the value of the real estate to decrease. As a result of any of these factors, the value of collateral securing a loan may be less than supposed, and if a default occurs, the Bank may not recover the outstanding balance of the loan. Additional charge-offs will adversely affect the Bank's operating results and financial condition.. The Bank is exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which it takes title. In the course of its business, the Bank may own or foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. The Bank may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Bank is the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, the Bank may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. These costs and claims could adversely affect the Bank.. 28. Table of Contents. Prepayment of loans may negatively impact the Bank's business. The Bank's clients may prepay the principal amount of their outstanding loans at any time. The speeds at which such prepayments occur, as well as the size of such prepayments, are within the Bank clients' discretion. If clients prepay the principal amount of their loans, and the Bank is unable to lend those funds to other clients or invest the funds at the same or higher interest rates, the Bank's interest income will be reduced. A significant reduction in interest income would have a negative impact on the Bank's results of operations and financial condition.. The Bank is highly dependent upon programs administered by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (\"Freddie Mac\" or the \"FHLMC\") and the Federal National Mortgage Association (\"FNMA\" or \"Fannie Mae\").  Changes in existing U.S. government-sponsored mortgage programs or servicing eligibility standards could materially and adversely affect its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Bank's ability to generate revenues through mortgage loan sales to institutional investors depends to a significant degree on programs administered by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae. These entities play powerful roles in the residential mortgage industry, and the Bank has significant business relationships with them. The Bank's status as an approved seller/servicer for both is subject to compliance with their selling and servicing guides.. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction or material change in, the operation of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae or any significant adverse change in the level of activity in the secondary mortgage market or the underwriting criteria of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae would likely prevent the Bank from originating and selling most, if not all, of its mortgage loan originations.. Loans originated through the Bank's Correspondent Lending channel subject the Bank to additional negative earnings sensitivity as the result of prepayments and additional credit risks that the Bank does not have through its historical origination channels. Loans acquired through the Bank's Correspondent Lending channel are typically purchased at a premium and also represent out-of-market loans originated by a non-Republic representative.  Loans purchased at a premium inherently subject the Bank's earnings to additional sensitivity related to prepayments, as increases in prepayment speeds will negatively affect the overall yield to maturity on such loans, potentially even causing the net loan yield to be negative for the period of time the loan is owned by the Bank.. Loans originated out of the Bank's market footprint by non-Republic representatives will inherently carry additional credit risk from potential fraud due to the increased level of third-party involvement on such loans.  In addition, the Bank will also experience an increase in complexity for customer service and the collection process, given the number of different state laws the Bank could be subject to from loans purchased throughout the U.S. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank's Correspondent Lending channel maintained loans with collateral in 25 different states, with the largest concentration of 72% from the state of California.. Failure to appropriately manage the additional risks related to this lending channel could lead to reduced profitability and/or operating losses through this origination channel.. Loans originated through the Bank's Internet Lending channel will subject the Bank to credit and regulatory risks that the Bank does not have through its historical origination channels. The dollar volume of loans originated through the Bank's Internet Lending channel is expected to be increasingly out-of-market.  Loans originated out of the Bank's market footprint inherently carry additional credit risk, as the Bank will experience an increase in the complexity of the customer authentication requirements for such loans.  Failure to appropriately identify the end-borrower for such loans could lead to fraud losses.  Failure to appropriately manage these additional risks could lead to reduced profitability and/or operating losses through this origination channel.  In addition, failure to appropriately identify the end-borrower could result in regulatory sanctions resulting from failure to comply with various customer identification regulations.. 29. Table of Contents. BANK OWNED LIFE INSURANCE (\"BOLI\"). The Bank holds a significant amount of BOLI, which creates credit risk relative to the insurers and liquidity risk relative to the product. At December 31, 2017, the Bank held BOLI on certain employees. The eventual repayment of the cash surrender value is subject to the ability of the various insurance companies to pay death benefits or to return the cash surrender value to the Bank if needed for liquidity purposes. The Bank continually monitors the financial strength of the various insurance companies that carry these policies. However, any one of these companies could experience a decline in financial strength, which could impair its ability to pay benefits or return the Bank's cash surrender value. If the Bank needs to liquidate these policies for liquidity purposes, it would be subject to taxation on the increase in cash surrender value and penalties for early termination, both of which would adversely impact earnings.. DEPOSITS AND RELATED ITEMS. Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing the Bank to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing superior expected returns. If clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, the Bank could lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing its funding costs and negatively impacting its overall results of operations.. The loss of large deposit relationships could increase the Bank's funding costs. The Bank has several large deposit relationships that do not require collateral; therefore, cash from these accounts can generally be utilized to fund the loan portfolio. If any of these balances are moved from the Bank, the Bank would likely utilize overnight borrowing lines on a short-term basis to replace the balances. The overall cost of gathering brokered deposits and/or Federal Home Loan Bank (\"FHLB\") advances, however, could be substantially higher than the Traditional Bank deposits they replace, increasing the Bank's funding costs and reducing the Bank's overall results of operations.. The Bank's \"Overdraft Honor\" program represents a significant business risk, and if the Bank terminated the program, it would materially impact the earnings of the Bank. There can be no assurance that Congress, the Bank's regulators, or others, will not impose additional limitations on this program or prohibit the Bank from offering the program. The Bank's \"Overdraft Honor\" program permits eligible clients to overdraft their checking accounts up to a predetermined dollar amount for the Bank's customary overdraft fee(s). Limitations or adverse modifications to this program, either voluntary or involuntary, would significantly reduce net income.. WAREHOUSE LENDING (\"WAREHOUSE\"). The Warehouse Lending business is subject to numerous risks that may result in losses. Risks associated with warehouse loans include, without limitation, (i) credit risks relating to the mortgage bankers that borrow from the Bank, (ii) the risk of intentional misrepresentation or fraud by any of such mortgage bankers and their third-party service providers, (iii) changes in the market value of mortgage loans originated by the mortgage banker during the time in warehouse, the sale of which is the expected source of repayment of the borrowings under a warehouse line of credit, or (iv) unsalable or impaired mortgage loans so originated, which could lead to decreased collateral value and the failure of a purchaser of the mortgage loan to purchase the loan from the mortgage banker. Failure to mitigate these risks could have a material adverse impact on the Bank's financial statements and results of operations.. Outstanding Warehouse lines of credit can fluctuate significantly and negatively impact the Bank's liquidity and earnings. The Bank has a lending concentration in outstanding Warehouse lines of credit. Because outstanding Warehouse balances are contingent upon residential mortgage lending activity, changes in the residential real estate market nationwide can lead to wide fluctuations of balances in this product. Additionally, Warehouse Lending period-end balances are generally higher than the average balance during the period due to increased mortgage activity that occurs at the end of a month. A sudden increase in loans may materially impact the Company's liquidity position, while a sudden decrease in loans may materially impact the Company's results of operations.. 30. Table of Contents. Outstanding Warehouse lines of credit and their corresponding earnings could decline due to several factors, such as intense industry competition, overall mortgage demand and the interest rate environment.  The Bank may experience decreased earnings on its Warehouse lines of credit due primarily to strong industry competition, overall mortgage demand and the interest rate environment.  Such decreased earnings may materially impact the Company's results of operations.. The Company may lose Warehouse clients due to mergers and acquisitions in the industry. The Bank's Warehouse clients are primarily mortgage companies across the United States. Mergers and acquisitions affecting such clients may lead to an end to the client relationship with the Bank. The loss of a significant amount of clients may materially impact the Company's results of operations.. REPUBLIC PROCESSING GROUP (\"RPG\"). The Company's lines of business and products not typically associated with traditional banking expose earnings to additional risks and uncertainties. The RPG operations are comprised of two reportable segments: Tax Refund Solutions (\"TRS\") and Republic Credit Solutions (\"RCS\").. RPG's products represent a significant business risk and management believes the Bank could be subject to additional regulatory and public pressure to exit these product lines, which may have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operations.. Various governmental, regulatory and consumer groups have, from time to time, questioned the fairness of the products offered by RPG.  Actions of these groups and others could result in regulatory, governmental, or legislative action or litigation against the Bank, which could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's operations.   If the Bank can no longer offer its RPG products, it will have a material adverse effect on its profits.. TAX REFUND SOLUTIONS (\"TRS\"). The TRS segment represents a significant operational risk, and if the Bank were unable to properly service this business, it could materially impact earnings. In order to process its business, the Bank must implement and test new systems, as well as train new employees. The Bank relies heavily on communications and information systems to operate the TRS segment. Any failure, sustained interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in client relationship management and other systems. Significant operational problems could also cause a material portion of the Bank's tax-preparer base to switch to a competitor to process their bank product transactions, significantly reducing the Bank's projected revenue without a corresponding decrease in expenses.. The Bank's Easy Advance (\"EA\") and Refund Transfer (\"RT\") products represent a significant third-party management risk, and if RB&T's third-party service providers fail to comply with all the statutory and regulatory requirements for these products or if RB&T fails to properly monitor its third-party service providers offering these products, it could have a material negative impact on earnings. TRS and its third-party service providers operate in a highly regulated environment and deliver products and services that are subject to strict legal and regulatory requirements. Failure by RB&T's third-party service providers or failure of RB&T to properly monitor the compliance of its third-party service providers with laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties that materially and adversely affect RB&T's earnings.  Such penalties could also include the discontinuance of any and all third-party program manager products and services.. The Bank's EA and RT products represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and if RB&T fails to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements, it could have a material negative impact on earnings. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters relating to the offering of consumer loan products, such as the EA, and consumer deposit products such as the RT.  Failure to comply with disclosure requirements or with laws relating to the permissibility of interest rates and fees charged could have a material negative impact on earnings.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could also expose RB&T to civil money penalties and litigation risk, including shareholder actions.. EAs represent a significant credit risk, and if RB&T is unable to collect a significant portion of its EAs, it would materially, negatively impact earnings. There is credit risk associated with an EA because the funds are disbursed to the taxpayer customer prior to RB&T receiving the taxpayer customer's refund as claimed on the return.  Because there is no recourse to the taxpayer customer if the EA is. 31. Table of Contents. not paid off by the taxpayer customer's tax refund, RB&T must collect all of its payments related to EAs through the refund process. Losses will generally occur on EAs when RB&T does not receive payment due to a number of reasons, such as Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") revenue protection strategies, including audits of returns, errors in the tax return, tax return fraud and tax debts not previously disclosed to RB&T during its underwriting process. While RB&T's underwriting during the EA approval process takes these factors into consideration based on prior years' payment patterns, if the IRS significantly alters its revenue protection strategies, if refund payment patterns for a given tax season meaningfully change, if the federal government fails to timely deliver refunds, or if RB&T is incorrect in its underwriting assumptions, RB&T could experience higher loan loss provisions above those projected.  The provision for loan losses is a significant determining factor of the RPG operations' overall net earnings.. Changes to the EA's product parameters by management could have a material negative impact on the performance of the EA. In response to changes in the legal, regulatory and competitive environment, management annually reviews and revises the EA's product parameters. Further changes in EA product parameters do not insure positive results and could have an overall material negative impact on the performance of the EA and therefore on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Due diligence measures implemented by the federal and state governments, which delay the timing of individual tax refund payments or possibly deny those individual payments outright, could present an increased credit risk to the Company. To protect against fraudulent tax returns, the federal government and many state governments have enacted laws and procedures that provide for additional due diligence by the applicable governmental authority prior to issuing an income tax refund.  This additional due diligence has generally driven longer periods between the filing of a tax return and the receipt of the corresponding refund. The federal government, specifically as a result of the PATH Act, announced that taxpayers filing tax returns with certain characteristics will not receive their corresponding refunds before February 15.  These funding delays will negatively impact the Company's ability to make mid-season modifications to its EA underwriting model based on then-current year tax refund funding patterns, because the substantial majority of all EAs will have been issued prior to February 15. In addition, these enhanced due diligence measures implemented by the federal and state governments could prevent the taxpayer's refund from being issued altogether. These governmental changes by themselves, or in combination with management's changes to EA product parameters, could have a material negative impact on the performance of the EA product and therefore on the Company's financial condition and results of operations if the loss rate on the EA product increases materially.. REPUBLIC CREDIT SOLUTIONS (\"RCS\"). Consumer loans originated through the RCS segment represent a higher credit risk than Traditional Bank loans.  RCS originates both a short-term line-of-credit product and a credit card product. The Bank sells 90% of the balances maintained through these two products within two days of balance origination and retains a 10% interest. Both of these products are unsecured and made to borrowers with below prime credit scores, therefore representing an elevated credit risk.  The loss rates for these two products have consistently been higher than Traditional Bank loss rates for unsecured consumer loans. A material increase in RCS loan charge-offs would have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. RCS revenues and earnings are highly concentrated in its line-of-credit product.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, RCS's revenues and earnings were concentrated in one line-of-credit product. Through the Bank, RCS works with one third party service provider to market, originate and service this line-of-credit product.  The discontinuation of this line-of-credit product would have a material adverse effect on the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. RCS loans represent a significant compliance and regulatory risk, and if the Company fails to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements it could have a material negative impact on the Company's earnings. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters relating to the offering of RCS loans. Failure to comply with disclosure requirements such as Regulation B, Fair Lending and Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, or with laws relating to the permissibility of interest rates and fees charged could have a material negative impact on the Company's earnings.. 32. Table of Contents. ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce profitability. The Bank's asset/liability management strategy may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. The Bank's primary source of income is from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The Bank expects to periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Bank's position, earnings may be negatively affected.. A flattening interest rate yield curve may reduce profitability. Changes in the slope of the \"yield curve,\" or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could reduce the Bank's net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because the Bank's liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than its assets, when the yield curve flattens, as is the case in the current interest rate environment, or even inverts, the Bank's net interest margin could decrease as its cost of funds increases relative to the yield it can earn on its assets.. Mortgage Banking activities could be adversely impacted by increasing or stagnant long-term interest rates. The Company is unable to predict changes in market interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the gain on sale of loans, loan origination fees and loan servicing fees, which account for a significant portion of Mortgage Banking income. A decline in market interest rates generally results in higher demand for mortgage products, while an increase in rates generally results in reduced demand. Generally, if demand increases, Mortgage Banking income will be positively impacted by more gains on sale; however, the valuation of existing mortgage servicing rights will decrease and may result in a significant impairment.  A decline in demand for Mortgage Banking products resulting from rising interest rates could also adversely impact other programs/products such as home equity lending, title insurance commissions and service charges on deposit accounts.. The Bank may be compelled to offer market-leading interest rates to maintain sufficient funding and liquidity levels. The Bank has traditionally relied on client deposits, brokered deposits and advances from the FHLB to fund operations. Such traditional sources may be unavailable, limited or insufficient in the future. If the Bank were to lose a significant funding source, such as a few major depositors, or if any of its lines of credit were canceled or curtailed, such as its borrowing line at the FHLB, or if the Bank cannot obtain brokered deposits, the Bank may be compelled to offer market-leading interest rates to meet its funding and liquidity needs. Obtaining funds at market-leading interest rates may have an adverse impact on the Company's net interest income and overall results of operations.. COMPANY COMMON STOCK. The Company's common stock generally has a low average daily trading volume, which limits a stockholder's ability to quickly accumulate or quickly sell large numbers of shares of Republic's stock without causing wide price fluctuations. Republic's stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, as detailed in the next risk factor. A low average daily stock trading volume can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded.. The market price for the Company's common stock may be volatile. The market price of the Company's common stock could fluctuate substantially in the future in response to a number of factors, including those discussed below. The market price of the Company's common stock has in the past fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause the price of the Company's common stock to fluctuate include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVariations in the Company's and its competitors' operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tActual or anticipated quarterly or annual fluctuations in operating results, cash flows and financial condition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to the Bank or other financial institutions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAnnouncements by the Company or its competitors of mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAdditions or departure of key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe announced exiting of or significant reductions in material lines of business within the Company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges or proposed changes in banking laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tEvents affecting other companies that the market deems comparable to the Company;. 33. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDevelopments relating to regulatory examinations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSpeculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to the Company's reputation or the financial services industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFuture issuances or re-sales of equity or equity-related securities, or the perception that they may occur;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tGeneral conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDomestic and international economic factors unrelated to the Company's performance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDevelopments related to litigation or threatened litigation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe presence or absence of short selling of the Company's common stock; and,.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFuture sales of the Company's common stock or debt securities.. In addition, the stock market, in general, has historically experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This is due, in part, to investors' shifting perceptions of the effect of changes and potential changes in the economy on various industry sectors. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their performance or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock, notwithstanding its actual or anticipated operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The Company expects that the market price of its common stock will continue to fluctuate due to many factors, including prevailing interest rates, other economic conditions, operating performance and investor perceptions of the outlook for the Company specifically and the banking industry in general. There can be no assurance about the level of the market price of the Company's common stock in the future or that you will be able to resell your shares at times or at prices you find attractive.. The Company's insiders hold voting rights that give them significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. The Company's Chairman/CEO and Vice Chairman hold substantial voting authority over the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Each share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to one vote and each share of Class B Common Stock is entitled to ten votes. This group generally votes together on matters presented to stockholders for approval. These actions may include, for example, the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to corporate documents, the approval of mergers and acquisitions, sales of assets and the continuation of the Company as a registered company with obligations to file periodic reports and other filings with the SEC. Consequently, other stockholders' ability to influence Company actions through their vote may be limited and the non-insider stockholders may not have sufficient voting power to approve a change in control even if a significant premium is being offered for their shares. Majority stockholders may not vote their shares in accordance with minority stockholder interests.. An investment in the Company's Common Stock is not an insured deposit. The Company's common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Company's common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company's common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment.. GOVERNMENT REGULATION / ECONOMIC FACTORS. The Company is significantly impacted by the regulatory, fiscal and monetary policies of federal and state governments that could negatively impact the Company's liquidity position and earnings. These policies can materially affect the value of the Company's financial instruments and can also adversely affect the Company's clients and their ability to repay their outstanding loans. In addition, failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies, or adverse examination findings, could result in significant penalties, negatively impact operations, or result in other sanctions against the Company. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine, in large part, the Company's cost of funds for lending and investing and the return the Company earns on these loans and investments, all of which impact net interest margin.. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated at both the federal and state levels and are subject to various routine and non-routine examinations by federal and state regulators. This regulatory oversight is primarily intended to protect depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole, not the stockholders of the Company. Changes in policies, regulations and statutes, or the interpretation thereof, could significantly impact the product offerings of Republic causing the Company to terminate or modify its product offerings in a manner that could materially adversely affect the earnings of the Company.. 34. Table of Contents. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including changes in the ownership or control of banks and bank holding companies, maintenance of adequate capital and the financial condition of a financial institution, permissible types, amounts and terms of extensions of credit and investments, permissible non-banking activities, the level of reserves against deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. Various federal and state regulatory agencies possess cease and desist powers, and other authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks subject to their regulations. The Federal Reserve (\"FRB\") possesses similar powers with respect to bank holding companies. These, and other restrictions, can limit in varying degrees, the manner in which Republic conducts its business.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") may have a negative impact on demand for the Company's mortgage-related products and services.    On December 22, 2017, President Donald Trump signed into law the TCJA.  The TCJA, among other things, reduces some of the individual tax benefits of home ownership, including the elimination of the deductibility of home equity interest and further limiting the deductibility of home mortgage interest. These changes may have an overall negative impact on demand for the Company's mortgage-related products and services.. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect the Company's operations, financial condition and earnings.  Enacted financial reform legislation has changed and will continue to change the bank regulatory framework. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditions, may adversely affect Company operations by restricting business activities, including the Company's ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase the Company's costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on the Company's lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of the Company's loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect financial performance.. The Company may be subject to examinations by taxing authorities that could adversely affect results of operations. In the normal course of business, the Company may be subject to examinations from federal and state taxing authorities regarding the amount of taxes due in connection with investments it has made and the businesses in which the Company is engaged. Federal and state taxing authorities have continued to be aggressive in challenging tax positions taken by financial institutions. The challenges made by taxing authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. If any such challenges are made and are not resolved in the Company's favor, they could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company's credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 35. Table of Contents. MANAGEMENT, INFORMATION SYSTEMS, ACQUISITIONS, ETC.. The Company is dependent upon the services of its management team and qualified personnel. The Company is dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of its key management personnel who have substantial experience with Company operations, the financial services industry and the markets in which the Company offers services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or more of its senior executives or key managers would have an adverse effect on operations; moreover, the Company depends on its account executives and loan officers to attract bank clients by developing relationships with commercial and consumer clients, mortgage companies, real estate agents, brokers and others. The Company believes that these relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled account executives and loan officers is highly competitive and historically has experienced a high rate of turnover. In addition, if a manager leaves the Company, other members of the manager's team may follow. Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. The Company's success also depends on its ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified personnel as the Company grows.. The Company's operations could be impacted if its third-party service providers experience difficulty. The Company depends on a number of relationships with third-party service providers, including core systems processing and web hosting. These providers are well-established vendors that provide these services to a significant number of financial institutions. If these third-party service providers experience difficulty or terminate their services and the Company is unable to replace them with other providers, its operations could be interrupted, which would adversely impact its business.. The Company's operations, including third-party and client interactions, are increasingly done via electronic means, and this has increased the risks related to cyber security. The Company is exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. Management has observed an increased level of attention in the industry focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. While the Company has not incurred any material losses related to cyber-attacks, the Bank may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if the Bank or one of the Bank's third-party service providers fall victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include: remediation costs for stolen assets or information; system repairs; consumer protection costs; increased cyber security protection costs that may include organizational changes; deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract clients following an attack; litigation and payment of damages; and reputational damage adversely affecting client or investor confidence.. The Company's information systems may experience an interruption that could adversely impact the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruption of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in client relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the impact of the failure or interruption of information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrences of any failures or interruptions of the Company's information systems could damage the Company's reputation, result in a loss of client business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 36. Table of Contents. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks. From time to time, the Company may develop and grow new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. All service offerings, including current offerings and those that may be provided in the future, may become more risky due to changes in economic, competitive and market conditions beyond the Company's control.. Negative public opinion could damage the Company's reputation and adversely affect earnings. Reputational risk is the risk to Company operations from negative public opinion. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the Company conducts its business activities, including product offerings, sales practices, practices used in origination and servicing operations, the management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and the Company's protection of confidential client information. Negative public opinion can adversely affect the Company's ability to keep and attract clients and can expose the Company to litigation.. The Company's ability to successfully complete acquisitions will affect its ability to grow its franchise and compete effectively in its market footprint. The Company has announced plans to pursue a policy of growth through acquisitions in the near future to supplement internal growth. The Company's efforts to acquire other financial institutions and financial service companies or branches may not be successful. Numerous potential acquirers exist for many acquisition candidates, creating intense competition, which affects the purchase price for which the institution can be acquired. In many cases, the Company's competitors have significantly greater resources than the Company has, and greater flexibility to structure the consideration for the transaction. The Company may also not be the successful bidder in acquisition opportunities that it pursues due to the willingness or ability of other potential acquirers to propose a higher purchase price or more attractive terms and conditions than the Company is willing or able to propose. The Company intends to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities in its market footprint. The risks presented by the acquisition of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Bank's financial condition and results of operations.. Successful Company acquisitions present many risks that could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. An institution that the Company acquires may have unknown asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities that the Company did not discover or fully recognize in the due diligence process, thereby resulting in unanticipated losses. The acquisition of other institutions also typically requires the integration of different corporate cultures, loan and deposit products, pricing strategies, data processing systems and other technologies, accounting, internal audit and financial reporting systems, operating systems and internal controls, marketing programs and personnel of the acquired institution, in order to make the transaction economically advantageous. The integration process is complicated and time consuming and could divert the Company's attention from other business concerns and may be disruptive to its clients and the clients of the acquired institution. The Company's failure to successfully integrate an acquired institution could result in the loss of key clients and employees, and prevent the Company from achieving expected synergies and cost savings. Acquisitions and failed acquisitions also result in professional fees and may result in creating goodwill that could become impaired, thereby requiring the Company to recognize further charges. The Company may finance acquisitions with borrowed funds, thereby increasing the Company's leverage and reducing liquidity, or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities.. 37. Table of Contents. REPUBLIC INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.. Transactions between the Company and its insurance subsidiary, Republic Insurance Services, Inc. (the \"Captive\"), may be subject to certain IRS responsibilities and penalties. The Company's Captive is a Nevada-based, wholly-owned insurance subsidiary of the Company that provides property and casualty insurance coverage to the Company and the Bank as well as a group of other third-party insurance captives for which insurance may not be available or economically feasible.  The Treasury Department of the United States and the IRS by way of Notice 2016-66 have stated that transactions believed similar in nature to transactions between the Company and the Captive may be deemed \"transactions of interest\" because such transactions may have potential for tax avoidance or evasion.  If the IRS ultimately concludes such transactions do create tax avoidance or evasion issues, the Company could be subject to the payment of penalties and interest."                                                                                                                                                                                
