[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information set forth in this Form 10-K.. Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Industry. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect our business. Our business could also be affected by additional risks not currently known or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Developing and producing oil and gas are costly and high-risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, and insurance may not be available or may not fully cover losses.. There are numerous risks associated with developing, completing and operating a well, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a well. Our development and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including:. •  reductions in oil or gas prices or increases in the differential between index oil or gas prices and prices received;. •  high costs, shortages or delivery delays of rigs, equipment, labor or other services;. •  unexpected operational events and/or conditions;. •  increases in severance or other taxes;. •  limitations on our ability to sell our oil or gas production;. •  adverse weather conditions and natural disasters;. •  facility or equipment malfunctions, and equipment failures or accidents;. •  pipe or cement failures and casing collapses;. •  compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations and requirements;. •  environmental hazards, such as leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases;. •  lost or damaged oilfield development and service tools;. •  unusual or unexpected geological formations, and pressure or irregularities in formations;. •  seismicity in the areas where we operate and the potential that drilling and completion activity or produced water injection/disposal would be limited in connection therewith;. •  fires, blowouts, surface craterings and explosions;. •  shortages or delivery delays of supplies, equipment and services;. •  midstream constraints or downtime;. •  title problems;. •  objections from surface owners and nearby surface owners in the areas where we operate; and. •  uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids.. Any of these or other similar occurrences could reduce our cash from operations or result in the disruption of our operations, substantial repair costs, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations. The occurrence of these events could also affect third parties, including persons living near our operations, our employees and employees of our contractors, leading to injuries or death.. Insurance against all operational risk is not available to us, and pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. We do not maintain business interruption insurance and also may not maintain insurance on all of our equipment. Losses could, therefore, occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Moreover, insurance may not be available in the future at commercially reasonable costs and on commercially reasonable terms, and any insurance coverage we do obtain may contain large deductibles or it may not cover all hazards or potential losses. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events or a delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Oil and gas prices are volatile and change for reasons that are beyond our control. Sustained periods of low prices or decreases in the price we receive for our oil and gas production can adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity and impede our growth.. The oil and gas markets are highly volatile, and we cannot predict future prices. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil, gas and NGL. The markets for these commodities are very volatile and even relatively modest reductions in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil, gas and NGL may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for the commodities, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as:. •  domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and gas, including as a result of technological advances affecting energy consumption and supply;. •  actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;. •  weather conditions;. •  overall domestic and global political and economic conditions;. •  the price of foreign imports;. •  political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, including the Middle East, Russia and South America;. •  variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices;. •  domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation;. •  the effect of energy conservation efforts;. •  the capacity, cost and availability of oil and gas pipelines and other transportation and gathering facilities, and the proximity of these facilities to our wells;. •  the availability of refining and processing capability;. •  factors specific to the local and regional markets where our production occurs; and. •  the price and availability of alternative fuels.. In the past, the price of oil has been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. Oil and gas prices have declined substantially since mid 2014.  For example, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, the NYMEX price for light sweet crude oil ranged from a high of $60.42 per Bbl to a low of $42.53 per Bbl. For calendar year 2016, the range was from a high of $54.06 per Bbl to a low of $26.21 per Bbl, and for the five years ended December 31, 2017, the price ranged from a high of $110.53 per Bbl to a low of $26.21 per Bbl.. A prolonged period of low oil and gas prices or a decline in oil and gas prices will significantly affect many aspects of our business, including financial condition, revenue, results of operations, liquidity, cash flow, rate of growth, reserves, the carrying value of our oil and gas properties, and the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility with a syndicate of lenders (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\"), all of which depend primarily or in part upon those prices. For example, declines in the prices we receive for our oil and gas adversely affect our ability to repay indebtedness, finance capital expenditures, make acquisitions, raise capital and otherwise satisfy our financial obligations. In addition, declines in prices reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, adversely affect our quantities and present values of proved reserves. Among other things, a reduction in our reserves can limit the capital available to us, as the maximum amount of available borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility is, and the availability of other sources of capital likely will be, based to a significant degree on the estimated quantities and value of those reserves.. Inadequate liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business operations.. Our ability to generate cash flow depends upon numerous factors related to our business that may be beyond our control, including:. •  the price at which we sell our oil and gas production and the costs we incur to market our production;. •  the amount of oil and gas we produce;. •  our ability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility or future debt agreements;. 20. •  debt service requirements contained in our Revolving Credit Facility, 8.5% senior notes due 2020 (the \"Senior Notes\") or future debt agreements;. •  the effectiveness of our commodity price hedging strategy;. •  the development of proved undeveloped and other prospective properties and the success of our enhanced oil recovery activities;. •  the level of our operating and general and administrative costs;. •  our ability to replace produced reserves;. •  prevailing economic conditions;. •  government regulation and taxation;. •  the level of our capital expenditures required to implement our development projects and make acquisitions of additional reserves and prospective properties;. •  fluctuations in our working capital needs; and. •  timing and collectability of receivables.. Failure to maintain adequate liquidity could result in an inability to replace reserves and production, to maintain ownership of undeveloped leasehold and adverse borrowing base determinations. Any or all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In addition, our estimate of proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, was based on a pricing methodology required by SEC rules. If low oil and gas prices result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to make downward adjustments, as a non-cash impairment charge to earnings, to the carrying value of our oil and gas properties. When we incur impairment charges in the future, we could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred. In addition, a reduction in the future net cash flow from our properties would negatively affect our ability to borrow funds under our Revolving Credit Facility.. Availability under our Revolving Credit Facility depends on a borrowing base which is subject to redetermination by our lenders. If our borrowing base is reduced, we may be required to repay amounts outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility.. Under the terms of our Revolving Credit Facility, our borrowing base is subject to semi-annual redetermination by our lenders based on their evaluation of our proved reserves and their internal criteria. In addition, under certain circumstances, interim redeterminations may be conducted, including in the event of acquisitions or dispositions of properties.. In the event the amount outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility at any time exceeds the borrowing base at such time, we would be required to repay the amount of our outstanding borrowings exceeding the new borrowing base over the 120 days following the redetermination. If we do not have sufficient funds on hand for repayment, we may be required to seek a waiver or amendment from our lenders, refinance our Revolving Credit Facility, incur additional indebtedness, sell assets or sell additional debt or equity securities in order to cure such borrowing base deficiency. We may not be able to obtain such financing or complete such transactions on terms acceptable to us or at all. Failure to make the required repayment could result in a default under our Revolving Credit Facility and a cross default under our Senior Notes.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition to making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to pay principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness, our substantial indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to changes in the markets in which we operate and otherwise limit our activities. For example, our indebtedness, and the terms of agreements governing that indebtedness:. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our existing debt obligations, thereby reducing the cash available to fund our operations, exploration and development efforts, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. •  increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and impair our ability to withstand sustained declines in oil and gas prices;. •  subject us to covenants that limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, exploration costs and other general corporate requirements;. 21. •  may prevent us from borrowing additional funds for operational or strategic purposes (including to fund future acquisitions), disposing of assets or paying cash dividends;. •  may prevent counterparties (including lenders) from entering into derivative transactions with us;. •  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less debt outstanding.. Covenants in our Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes, currently impose, and future financing agreements may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions.. Our Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing our Senior Notes each contain restrictions, and future financing agreements may contain additional restrictions, on our activities, including covenants that restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to:. •  incur additional debt;. •  pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase stock;. •  create liens;. •  make specified types of investments;. •  apply net proceeds from certain asset sales and equity offerings other than to repay indebtedness;. •  engage in transactions with our affiliates;. •  engage in sale and leaseback transactions;. •  merge or consolidate;. •  make payments from restricted subsidiaries;. •  sell equity interests of restricted subsidiaries; and. •  sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or dispose of assets.. As amended in October 2017, our Revolving Credit Facility will mature in 2021 (unless there is a maturity of material indebtedness prior to such date) and is secured by substantially all of our oil and gas properties as well as a pledge of all ownership interests in our operating subsidiaries. The Revolving Credit Facility contains various affirmative and negative covenants, measured on a quarterly basis, including but not limited to financial covenants that (i) require us to maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of no less than 1.0 to 1.0 and (ii) do not permit our maximum leverage ratio (total debt to consolidated Adjusted EBITDA as defined in the Revolving Credit Facility) to exceed 4.0 to 1.0.. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, may require us to sell assets or take other actions to reduce indebtedness to meet our covenants, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot provide assurance that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. 22. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing the Revolving Credit Facility, Senior Notes and other debt, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that we have borrowed and would affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on our debt.. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including our Revolving Credit Facility or the Senior Notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness, and any such default could cause a cross-default under the terms of our other indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and our secured lenders could institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may in the future need to seek to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our Revolving Credit Facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our Revolving Credit Facility or Senior Notes, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. In addition, any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our Revolving Credit Facility that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of any such indebtedness, could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Senior Notes and other indebtedness and substantially decrease the market value of the Senior Notes.. The marketability of our production is dependent upon gathering, transportation and processing facilities the capacity and operation of which we do not control.. The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, gas gathering systems, gas processing facilities, water sourcing, gathering and disposal systems and oil gathering systems owned by third parties. In general, we do not control these facilities and our access to them may be limited or denied due to circumstances beyond our control. A significant disruption in the availability of these facilities could adversely affect our ability to deliver to market the oil and gas we produce, and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. In some cases, our ability to deliver to market our oil and gas is dependent upon coordination among third parties who own pipelines, transportation and processing facilities that we use, and any inability or unwillingness of those parties to coordinate efficiently could also interrupt our operations. Additionally, the amount of our oil and gas production in the Delaware Basin could exceed the capacity of, and result in strains on, the various gathering and transportation systems, pipelines, processing facilities, and other infrastructure available in that area. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, local government activity, adverse court rulings, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines, infrastructure or capacity constraints and general economic conditions could also adversely affect our ability to produce, gather, process, transport and market oil and gas.  These are risks for which we generally do not maintain insurance.. Our strategy involves using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing some of the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling horizontal wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone;. •  staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation;. •  running our casing the entire length of the wellbore; and. •  being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  the ability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages;. •  the ability to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations; and. •  the ability to successfully clean out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. 23. The drilling process and the results of our drilling in new or emerging formations are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are more developed and have a longer history of established production. Newer or emerging formations and areas have limited or no drilling or production history and, consequently, we are more limited in assessing future drilling costs and results in these areas. If our drilling costs are greater or our results are less than anticipated, the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and we could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Any acquisitions we complete are subject to substantial risks that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Even if we do make acquisitions that we believe will enhance our growth, financial condition or results of operations, any acquisition involves potential risks including, among other things:. •  the validity of our assumptions about the acquired properties' or company's reserves, future production, the future prices of oil and gas, infrastructure requirements, environmental and other liabilities, revenue and costs;. •  an inability to integrate successfully the properties and businesses we acquire;. •  a decrease in our liquidity to the extent we use a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions or operations of the acquired properties;. •  a significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur debt to finance acquisitions or operations of the acquired properties;. •  the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate;. •  the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. •  an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets;. •  unforeseen difficulties encountered in operating in new geographic areas; and. •  customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. Our decision to acquire a property or business will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations.. Also, our review of acquired properties is inherently incomplete because it is generally not feasible to perform an in-depth review of the individual properties involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential problems. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. The potential risks in making acquisitions could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows from the acquired businesses or realize other anticipated benefits of those acquisitions.. We and our subsidiary guarantors may be unable to fulfill our debt service obligations under our debt agreements.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As a result, a significant portion of our cash flow will be required to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowing capacity available, to enable us to pay amounts due on, or pay when due at maturity, our indebtedness, including the Revolving Credit Facility or the Senior Notes, or to fund other liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2017, we had $555.0 million in outstanding indebtedness.. Servicing our indebtedness and satisfying our other obligations will require a significant amount of cash. Our cash flow from operating activities and other sources may not be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. Our ability to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness and to satisfy our other obligations will depend upon our future operating performance and financial condition and the availability of refinancing indebtedness, which will be affected by prevailing economic and industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our Revolving Credit Facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, including the payment of principal and interest on the Revolving Credit Facility or the Senior Notes.. 24. Declines in product prices decrease our operating cash flow. An increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet debt service requirements and could require us to modify our operations, including curtailing our exploration and drilling programs, selling assets, issuing equity, reducing our capital expenditures, refinancing all or a portion of our existing debt or obtaining additional financing. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements may, and our Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes do, restrict us from implementing some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations or issue equity at depressed prices to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate these dispositions or equity issuances for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any dispositions or equity issuances may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities of our proved reserves.  Estimates of resource potential are also based on many assumptions and may turn out to be inaccurate.. Our estimate of proved reserves at December 31, 2017, is based on the quantities of oil and gas that engineering and geological analyses demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from established reservoirs in the future under current operating and economic parameters. NSAI audited, on a well-by-well basis, the reserve and economic evaluations of all properties that were prepared by us. Oil and gas reserve engineering is not exact; it relies on subjective interpretations of data that may be inaccurate or incomplete and requires predictions and assumptions of future reservoir behavior and economic conditions. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including:. •  the assumed accuracy of field measurements and other reservoir data, including type curve forecast models;. •  assumptions regarding expected reservoir performance relative to historical analog reservoir performance;. •  the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;. •  assumptions concerning the availability of capital and its costs;. •  assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices; and. •  assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs.. Because all reserve estimates are necessarily subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves:. •  the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered;. •  the timing of the recovery of oil and gas reserves;. •  the production and operating costs incurred; and. •  the amount and timing of future development expenditures.. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. As a result of all these factors, we may make material changes to reserves estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of our development activities and actual drilling and production.. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly.. In addition, the present value of the estimated future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of those reserves. Pursuant to SEC rules, the estimated future net cash flows from our proved reserves, and the estimated quantity of those reserves, were based on the arithmetic average of the prior year's first day of the month oil and gas index prices.. 25. In our press releases and investor presentations, we include estimates of quantities of oil and gas using certain terms, such as \"resource,\" \"resource potential,\" \"EUR,\" \"oil in place,\" or other descriptions of volumes of reserves, which terms include quantities of oil and gas that may not meet the SEC definition of proved, probable and possible reserves, and which the SEC guidelines strictly prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. These estimates are by their nature more speculative than estimates of proved reserves and accordingly are subject to substantially greater risk of being recovered by Resolute. In addition, \"peak IP rates\" for both our wells and for those wells that are located near to our properties are limited data points in each well's productive history and not necessarily indicative or predictive of future production rates, EUR or economic rates of return from such wells and should not be relied upon for such purpose. Our investor presentations also include type curve forecast models for well performance. Type curve forecast models are derived from the actual production of historical comparably drilled and completed wells and forecast expected well production, but actual production results may differ significantly from production forecasted by type curves. Type curve forecast models have an inherent degree of variability and may change over time, and as a result, may not be indicative of the actual well data for the type curve areas.. Sustained low commodity prices could result in additional impairments charges and we may be required to write down the carrying value of our properties in the future.. We use the full cost accounting method for oil and gas exploitation, development and exploration activities. Under the full cost method rules, we perform a ceiling test and if the net capitalized costs for a cost center exceed the ceiling for the relevant properties, we write down the book value of the properties. If low oil and gas prices result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or drilling results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to make downward adjustments, as a non-cash impairment charge to earnings, to the carrying value of our oil and gas properties.. Our planned operations, as well as replacement of our production and reserves, will require significant additional capital that may not be available.. Our business is capital intensive, and requires substantial expenditures to maintain currently producing wells, to make the acquisitions of additional reserves and/or conduct the exploration, exploitation and development program necessary to replace our reserves, to pay expenses and to satisfy our other obligations. These activities will require cash flow from operations, additional borrowings or proceeds from the issuance of equity or asset sales, or some combination thereof, which may not be available to us.. For example, in 2018 we expect capital expenditures of between $365 million and $395 million. Additionally, based on our SEC-case reserve projections, we expect to spend $285.4 million of capital expenditures over the next five years to implement and complete our proved undeveloped projects. We expect to incur all of these future capital expenditures during 2018 through 2022 based on the capital plan contemplated by our year-end 2017 SEC reserve report. To the extent our production and reserves decline faster than we anticipate, we will require a greater amount of capital to maintain our production. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants in our Revolving Credit Facility or the Senior Notes, adverse market conditions or other contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds necessary for future activities could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our activities and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity may result in significant equity holder dilution.. If we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our operations or are unable to dispose of the water we use and produce at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce oil and gas commercially and in commercial quantities could be impaired.. We use a substantial amount of water in our drilling and completion. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water, or treat and dispose of water after drilling and completion, and generated from production could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of oil and gas. Furthermore, future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells could increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.. 26. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase although the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease.. Notwithstanding our current indebtedness levels and restrictive covenants, we may still be able to incur substantial additional debt or make certain restricted payments, which could exacerbate the risks described above.. We may be able to incur additional debt in the future. In addition, although the Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain restrictions on our ability to incur indebtedness, those restrictions are subject to a number of exceptions. In particular, we may borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility. We expect to be able to issue additional notes under the indenture in some circumstances. In addition, if we are able to designate some of our restricted subsidiaries under the indenture as unrestricted subsidiaries, including in connection with the formation of master limited partnerships, those unrestricted subsidiaries would be permitted to borrow beyond the limitations specified in the indenture and engage in other activities in which restricted subsidiaries may not engage. We may also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions that may increase our indebtedness. In addition, under the indenture, we will be able to make restricted payments in certain circumstances. We may also be able to obtain waivers from the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility and the holders of our Senior Notes that would permit us to increase the amount of indebtedness we are permitted to incur. Adding new debt to current debt levels or making otherwise restricted payments could intensify the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face.. Although the Senior Notes are referred to as \"senior,\" rights to receive payments on the Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to the rights of our and our restricted subsidiaries' existing and future secured creditors.. The lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility will have claims that are prior to the claims of holders of the Senior Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets and the assets of our restricted subsidiaries. The Senior Notes are effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness incurred under the Revolving Credit Facility and any future secured facilities of the Company. In the event of any distribution or payment of our or any guarantor's assets in any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization or other bankruptcy proceeding, holders of secured indebtedness will have prior claim to those of our or our restricted subsidiaries' assets that constitute their collateral. Holders of Senior Notes will participate ratably with all holders of our unsecured indebtedness that is deemed to be of the same class as such notes, and potentially with all of our or any restricted subsidiary's other general creditors, based upon the respective amounts owed to each holder or creditor, in our remaining assets. In any of the foregoing events, we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient assets to pay amounts due on the Senior Notes. As a result, holders of Senior Notes may receive less, ratably, than holders of secured indebtedness.. The Senior Notes are subordinated to all indebtedness of those of our existing or future subsidiaries that are not, or do not become, guarantors of the notes.. Although all of our current subsidiaries are guarantors of the Senior Notes, if any future subsidiaries do not become guarantors of the notes, they will have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under the notes or to make any funds available to pay those amounts, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payment. The notes will be structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other obligations of any non-guarantor subsidiary such that, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of any subsidiary that is not a guarantor, all of the subsidiary's creditors (including trade creditors and preferred stockholders, if any) would be entitled to payment in full out of the subsidiary's assets before we would be entitled to any payment. In addition, the indenture governing the notes will, subject to some limitations, permit non-guarantor subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness and will not contain any limitation on the amount of other liabilities, such as trade payables, that may be incurred by these subsidiaries.. We may not be able to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control as required by the indenture governing the notes. A change of control is also an event of default under our Revolving Credit Facility.. Upon the occurrence of certain kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding Senior Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase, unless all notes have been previously called for redemption. The holders of other debt securities that we may issue in the future, which rank equally in right of payment with the notes, may also have this right. Our failure to purchase tendered notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes, which in turn, would constitute an event of default under our Revolving Credit Facility. A \"change of control\" under the indenture governing our Senior Notes includes the acquisition by a third party of more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, which is a transaction that may occur without the approval of the Company's Board of Directors.. 27. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of notes. Moreover, our Revolving Credit Facility restricts, and any future indebtedness we incur may restrict, our ability to repurchase the notes, including following a change of control event. As a result, following a change of control event, we would not be able to repurchase notes unless we first repay all indebtedness outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility and any of our other indebtedness that contains similar provisions, or obtain a waiver from the holders of such indebtedness to permit us to repurchase the notes. We may be unable to repay all of that indebtedness or obtain a waiver of that type. Any requirement to offer to repurchase outstanding notes may therefore require us to refinance our other outstanding debt, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. These repurchase requirements may also delay or make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us.. In addition, the occurrence of a change of control (as defined under the debt agreement) in itself would constitute an event of default under our Revolving Credit Facility.. Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, may not constitute a \"Change of Control\" under the indenture.. Following a sale of \"substantially all\" of our assets, we may not be able to determine if a change of control that would give rise to a right to have the Senior Notes repurchased has occurred or if a change of control that would give rise to an event of default under the Revolving Credit Facility has occurred.. The definition of change of control in the Revolving Credit Facility and the Senior Notes include a phrase relating to the sale of \"all or substantially all\" of our assets. There is no precise, established definition of the phrase \"substantially all\" under applicable law. Accordingly, the ability of a holder of Senior Notes to require us to repurchase its notes, and the occurrence of an event of default under the Revolving Credit Facility, as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person, may be uncertain. Further, a holder or holders of Senior Notes could take the position that a transaction or series of transactions constituted a \"sale of substantially all assets\" giving rise to the right to have the Senior Notes repurchased.. Provisions in the indenture governing our Senior Notes and in our Revolving Credit Facility may discourage third parties from seeking to consummate a change of control transaction that could otherwise be beneficial for our stockholders.. Upon the occurrence of certain kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding Senior Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of repurchase, unless all notes have been previously called for redemption.  In addition, the occurrence of a change of control (as defined under the respective debt agreements) in itself would constitute an event of default under our Revolving Credit Facility, which would cause amounts outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility to become immediately due and payable.  The potential trigger of an event of default under the Revolving Credit Facility, as well as the potential repurchase obligation under the Senior Notes, may discourage potential third parties from entering into a change of control transaction with us that may otherwise be beneficial for our stockholders.. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage or the leases are extended.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 4,300 net acres in the Permian Basin that are not currently held by production. Unless production in paying quantities is established on units containing these leases during their primary term, their continuous drilling term or we obtain extensions of the leases, these leases will expire. If our leases expire, we will lose our right to develop the related properties.. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change based on various factors, including factors that are beyond our control, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, and regulatory approvals.. Adverse U.S. and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. Any or all of the following may occur if domestic and global economic conditions worsen:. •  We may be unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing, which would require us to limit our capital expenditures and other spending. This would lead to lower growth in our production and reserves than if we were able to spend more than our cash flow. Financing costs may significantly increase as lenders may be reluctant to lend without receiving higher fees and spreads.. •  An economic slowdown could lead to lower demand for oil and gas by individuals and industries, which may result in lower prices for the oil and gas sold by us, lower revenues and possibly losses.. •  The lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility may become more restrictive in their lending practices or unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which would limit our access to capital to fund our capital expenditures and. 28. operations. This would limit our ability to generate revenues as well as limit our projected production and reserves growth, leading to declining production and possibly losses.. •  The losses incurred by financial institutions as well as the bankruptcy of some financial institutions heightens the risk that a counterparty to our derivative instruments could default on its obligations. These losses and the possibility of a counterparty declaring bankruptcy may affect the ability of the counterparties to meet their obligations to us on derivative transactions, which could reduce our revenues from derivatives at a time when we are also receiving a lower price for our gas and oil sales. As a result, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. •  Our Revolving Credit Facility bears a floating interest rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR. If LIBOR were to increase, this would cause higher interest expense.. •  Our Revolving Credit Facility requires the lenders to re-determine our borrowing base semi-annually. The redeterminations are based largely on our proved reserves using price assumptions determined by each lender, with effect given to our derivative positions. It is possible that the lenders could reduce their price assumptions used to determine reserves for calculating our borrowing base and our borrowing base could be reduced. This would reduce our funds available to borrow and could require us to repay any amounts outstanding in excess of the then-determined borrowing base.. •  Bankruptcies of purchasers of our oil and gas could lead to the delay or failure of us to receive the revenues from those sales.. A financial failure by us or our subsidiaries may result in the assets of any or all of those entities becoming subject to the claims of all creditors of those entities.. A financial failure by us or our subsidiaries could affect payment of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Senior Notes if a bankruptcy court were to substantively consolidate us and our subsidiaries. If a bankruptcy court substantively consolidated us and our subsidiaries, the assets of each entity would become subject to the claims of creditors of all entities. This would expose holders of Senior Notes not only to the usual impairments arising from bankruptcy, but also to potential dilution of the amount ultimately recoverable because of the larger creditor base. Furthermore, forced restructuring of the Senior Notes could occur through the \"cramdown\" provisions of the bankruptcy code. Under these provisions, the notes could be restructured over the objections of holders as to their general terms, primarily interest rate and maturity.. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves.. We may not encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our drilling operations. The new wells we drill or participate in may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether we will find oil or gas or, if found, that the hydrocarbons will be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:. •  increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs and equipment;. •  unexpected drilling conditions;. •  title problems;. •  pressure or irregularities in formations;. •  equipment failures or accidents;. •  adverse weather conditions; and. •  compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements.. 29. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, we may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill such locations.. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing, distribution and disposal systems, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know with certainty if the numerous drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce gas or oil from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the drilling locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified.. The development of our estimated PUD reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, our estimated PUD reserves may not be ultimately developed or produced.. As of December 31, 2017, 51% of our total estimated proved reserves were classified as proved undeveloped. Development of these undeveloped reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Delays in the development of our reserves, increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves or decreases in commodity prices will reduce the value of our estimated PUD reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves and may result in some projects becoming uneconomic. If we choose not to develop our PUD reserves or suffer delays in their development as a result of such factors we could have to reclassify our PUD reserves as unproved reserves. Under the SEC's reserve reporting rules, we may be required to write down our PUD reserves if we do not drill those wells within five years after their respective dates of initial booking.. Shortages of qualified personnel or field supplies, equipment and services could affect our ability to execute our plans on a timely basis, reduce our cash flow and adversely affect our results of operations.. The demand for qualified and experienced geologists, geophysicists, engineers, field operations specialists, landmen, financial experts and other personnel in the oil and gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and gas prices, causing periodic shortages. From time to time, there have also been shortages of drilling rigs and other field supplies, equipment and services, as demand for rigs and equipment increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors can also result in significant increases in costs for equipment, services, supplies and personnel. Higher oil and gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. In the event of such shortages, our cash flow and operating results could be adversely affected and our ability to conduct our operations in accordance with our plans and budgets could be restricted.. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.. Exploration, exploitation, development, production and marketing operations in the oil and gas industry are regulated extensively at the federal, state and local levels. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and properly abandon oil and gas wells and other recovery operations. Under these laws and regulations, we could also be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the suspension or termination of our operations or denial or revocation of permits and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties.. 30. Part of the regulatory environment in which we operate includes, in some cases, federal requirements for obtaining environmental assessments, environmental impact statements and/or plans of development before commencing exploration and production activities. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals or permits or the receipt of an approval or permit with unreasonable conditions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to exploit our properties. Additionally, the oil and gas regulatory environment could change in ways that might substantially increase the financial and managerial costs to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations and, consequently, adversely affect our profitability. The expansion of GHG mandatory reporting rules (MRR) affecting onshore oil and gas activities and proposed GHG cap-and-trade legislation are two examples of recent and of proposed changes in the regulatory climate that do and would affect us. Also, the EPA announced a comprehensive strategy for further reducing methane emissions from oil and gas operations and issued a final rule in June 2016 (Clean Air Act NSPS Subpart OOOOa), although parts of those regulations are currently the subject of a proposed two-year stay by the EPA to allow for review, reconsideration, and possible rescission, as noted above. We may be placed at a competitive disadvantage to larger companies in the industry with respect to such expanded regulatory requirements, which can spread these additional costs over a greater number of wells and larger operating staff. Please read \"Business and Properties  -  Environmental, Health and Safety Matters and Regulation\" and \"Business and Properties  -  Other Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry\" for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us.. Certain federal income tax deductions and credits currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.. Certain legislative proposals have been made that would terminate various tax incentives currently available to companies engaged in oil and gas development and production. These proposed changes have included (i) the elimination of the current deduction for intangible drilling and development costs and for qualified tertiary injectant expenses, (ii) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas wells, and (iii) the extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. While these specific changes were not included in the Tax Act, additional legislative proposals affecting these tax incentives may be introduced, and, if such a proposal were to be enacted, the resulting impact could increase the cost of exploration and development of oil and gas resources. No accurate prediction can be made as to whether these or similar changes will be proposed or enacted in the future, but any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Proposed federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Hydraulic fracturing is a common process in our industry of creating artificial cracks, or fractures, in deep underground rock formations through the pressurized injection of water, sand and other additives to enable fluids (including oil and gas) to move more easily through the rock to a production well. This process often is necessary to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas from many reservoirs, especially shale rock formations. We routinely utilize hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our reservoirs, including all of our wells in the Permian Basin. Current regulation of hydraulic fracturing primarily is conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements, but proposed regulations at the federal level have been under consideration by EPA, BLM and OSHA. The EPA is conducting a wide-ranging study on the effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources. In December 2015, the EPA issued a draft final report for public comment and peer review. Other governmental reviews have also been recently conducted or are under way that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing. For example, a federal BLM rulemaking for hydraulic fracturing practices on federal and Indian lands was promulgated in 2015, and then challenged in federal court on numerous grounds. In June 2016, the United States District Court for the District of Wyoming held that the new regulations were invalid. Although the district court ruling was appealed, the rule was rescinded by BLM on December 29, 2017, and all related litigation is now concluded. Additionally, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation, and in the future may consider additional legislation, that would amend the SDWA to eliminate an existing exemption from federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing activities and require the disclosure of chemical additives used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. If adopted, the proposed amendments to the SDWA or these federal agencies' possible expansion of their existing regulatory programs affecting hydraulic fracturing could result in additional regulations and permitting requirements at the federal level. In addition, various states and localities are also studying or considering various additional regulatory measures related to hydraulic fracturing, and public referendums for moratoriums or additional restrictions on fracing have recently been presented in many state and local jurisdictions. These and similar developments could result in additional regulatory scrutiny that could make it difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and of doing business. Additional regulations and permitting requirements could lead to significant operational delays and increased operating costs, and make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. We cannot assure you that any such outcome would not be material, and any such outcome could have a material and adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations.  Please read \"Business and Properties  - Other Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry - Hydraulic Fracturing Disclosure and Possible Regulation or Prohibition\" for a description of the potential further laws and regulations that may affect us.. 31. Legislation or regulatory initiatives intended to address seismic activity could restrict our ability to dispose of saltwater produced in connection with our oil and gas production, which could limit our ability to produce oil and gas economically and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We dispose of large volumes of saltwater produced in connection with our drilling and production operations, pursuant to permits issued to us or third-party operators of disposal wells by governmental authorities overseeing produced water disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change, which could result in the imposition of more stringent operating constraints or new monitoring and reporting requirements, owing to, among other things, concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities.. There exists a growing concern that the injection of produced water into deep belowground disposal wells may trigger seismic activity in certain areas, including Texas, where we operate. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are pursuing initiatives designed to impose additional requirements in the permitting of saltwater disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in 2015, the United States Geological Survey identified eight states, including Texas, with areas of increased rates of induced seismic activity that may be attributable to fluid injection or oil and gas extraction activities. In addition, a number of lawsuits have been filed in other states, including recently in Oklahoma, alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are seeking to impose additional requirements, including requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, in October 2014, the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRC, published a new rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells in Texas that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If a permittee or a prospective permittee fails to demonstrate that the saltwater or other fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the TRC may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well.. The adoption and implementation of any new laws, regulations, or directives that restrict our ability to dispose of produced water, by changing the depths of disposal wells, reducing the volumes, injection pressures or rates of oil and gas wastewater disposal in such wells, restricting disposal well locations, or by requiring us or third parties who dispose of our saltwater to shut down disposal wells, could increase disposal costs or require us to shut in a substantial number of our oil and gas wells or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce oil and gas economically and, accordingly, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The standardized measure of future net cash flows from our net proved reserves is based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our proved reserves.. Actual future net cash flows from our oil and gas properties will be determined by the actual prices we receive for oil and gas, our actual operating costs in producing oil and gas, the amount and timing of actual production, the amount and timing of our capital expenditures, supply of and demand for oil and gas and changes in governmental regulations or taxation, which may differ from the assumptions used in creating estimates of future cash flows.. The timing of our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with guidance from the FASB may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general.. We operate producing properties that are located in a limited number of geographic areas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with lack of geographic diversification.. Approximately 75% of our 2017 oil and gas revenues and 100% of our total proved reserves at December 31, 2017, are located in our Permian Basin Properties in west Texas. The remainder of our sales of oil and gas in 2017 were attributable to our Aneth Field Properties, which were sold in November 2017. As a result of our lack of diversification in asset type and location, any delays or interruptions of production caused by such factors as governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production or interruption of transportation, price fluctuations, natural disasters or shutdowns of the pipelines connecting our production to refineries would have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations than if we possessed more diverse assets and locations.. 32. The prices we receive for our oil and gas production are affected by the geographic region in which that production is located. Prices are determined to a significant extent by factors affecting the regional supply of and demand for oil and gas, including the adequacy of the pipeline and processing infrastructure in the region to transport or process our production and that of other producers. Those factors result in basis differentials between the published indices generally used to establish the price received for regional oil and gas production and the actual (frequently lower) price we may receive for our production.. We have limited control over activities on properties we do not operate, which could reduce our production and revenues, affect the timing and amounts of capital requirements and potentially result in a dilution of our respective ownership interest in the event we are unable to make any required capital contributions.. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we may have a limited ability to exercise influence over normal operating procedures, expenditures or future development of underlying properties and their associated costs. For all of the properties that are operated by others, we are dependent on their decision making with respect to day-to-day operations over which we have little control. The failure of an operator of wells in which we have an interest to adequately perform operations, or an operator's breach of applicable agreements, could reduce production and revenues we receive from that well. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the timing and amount of capital expenditures, the available expertise and financial resources, the inclusion of other participants and the use of technology.. If the expenses associated with the operator's activity exceed our expectations we may be required to make significantly higher capital contributions to satisfy our proportionate share of the costs. If such capital contributions are required, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations or we may have to reallocate our anticipated capital expenditure budget. In the event that we do not participate in future capital contributions with respect to a joint operating agreement or any other agreements relating to properties we do not operate, our ownership interest could be diluted or forfeited.. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties who may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects.. On a limited basis, we own less than 100% of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations, and other parties own the remaining portion of the working interest. We could be responsible for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such as nonpayment of costs and liabilities arising from the actions of other working interest owners. In addition, declines in commodity prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners will not be able to fulfill their joint activity obligations. A partner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs, and, in some cases, a partner may declare bankruptcy. In the event any of our project partners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover these costs from our partners, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.. The inability of one or more of our customers or other counterparties to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results.. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from our oil, gas and NGL sales or joint interest billings to a small number of third parties in the energy industry. This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may affect our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, our derivatives expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Finally, our agreement with Elk regarding additional future consideration payable in connection with our disposition of Aneth Field exposes us to credit risk in the event of non-performance by Elk and its affiliates. Nonperformance by our customers or counterparties may adversely affect our financial condition. We face similar risks with respect to our other counterparties, including the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility and the providers of our surety bonds and insurance coverage.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. One or more of the technologies we currently use or implement in the future may become obsolete. We cannot be certain we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 33. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses or reduced income from failure to pay by our counterparties, could reduce our net income, and could result in volatility in our net income.. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in the price of oil and gas, we have entered into, and plan to enter into in the future, derivative arrangements covering a significant portion of our oil and gas production. These derivative arrangements could result in both realized and mark-to-market derivative losses. Our derivative instruments are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment, and the change in fair market value of the instrument is reported in our consolidated statements of income each quarter, which have resulted in, and will in the future likely result in, significant mark-to-market net gains or losses. Please read  -  \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  How We Evaluate Our Operations\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\". In addition, our derivative activities are subject to the risk that a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument. If derivative counterparties are unable to make payments to us under their derivative arrangements, our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected.. Our actual future production during a period may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative transactions for such period. If the actual amount is higher than we estimate, we will have more unhedged production and therefore greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount is lower than the nominal amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, whether due to issues with our sales to purchasers, natural declines in production and the failure to develop new reserves or other factors, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions in cash without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial reduction of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our derivative activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows.. The effectiveness of derivative transactions to protect us from future oil and gas price declines will be dependent upon oil and gas prices at the time we enter into future derivative transactions as well as our future levels of hedging, and as a result our future net cash flow may be more sensitive to commodity price changes.. Our Revolving Credit Facility as amended on October 18, 2017, prohibits us from entering into derivative arrangements (i) for the first year, the greater of 85% of our anticipated production from proved properties or 75% of our anticipated projected production from properties, (ii) for the second year, 85% of anticipated projected production from proved properties and (iii) for the period after such two year period, the greater of 75% of our anticipated production from proved properties or 85% of our production from projected proved developed producing properties (not to exceed a term of 60 months for any such derivative agreement) using economic parameters specified in our Revolving Credit Facility. The prices at which we hedge our production in the future will be dependent upon commodity prices at the time we enter into these transactions. Accordingly, our commodity price hedging strategy will not protect us from significant and sustained declines in oil and gas prices received for our future production. Conversely, our commodity price hedging strategy may limit our ability to realize cash flow from commodity price increases. It is also possible that a larger percentage of our future production will not be hedged as our derivative policies may change, which would result in our oil and gas revenue becoming more sensitive to commodity price changes.. Legislation and regulation affecting derivative instruments could adversely affect our ability to hedge oil and gas prices which may increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability.. In July 2010, former President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank\"). Dodd-Frank imposes restrictions on the use and trading of certain derivatives, including our oil and gas derivative instruments, and could have a number of effects on us, including the following:. •  Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by regulators, we could be required to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our dealer counterparties for our derivative transactions, which would likely make it impracticable to implement our current hedging strategy.. •  If our ability to enter into derivative transactions is decreased as a result of Dodd-Frank, we would be exposed to additional risks related to commodity price volatility. Commodity price decreases would then have an immediate significant adverse effect on our profitability and revenues. Reduced derivative transactions may also impair our ability to have certainty with respect to a portion of our cash flow, which could lead to decreases in capital spending and, therefore, decreases in future production and reserves.. •  We expect that the cost to enter into derivative transactions will increase as a result of a reduction in the number of counterparties in the market and the pass-through of increased counterparty costs, thereby increasing the costs of derivative instruments. Our derivatives counterparties may be subject to significant new capital, margin and business conduct requirements imposed as a result of the new legislation.. 34. •  Dodd-Frank contemplates that most swaps will be required to be cleared through a registered clearing facility and traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility. There are some exceptions to these requirements for entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. While we may ultimately be eligible for such exceptions, the scope of these exceptions currently is uncertain, pending further definition through rule making proceedings.. •  The above factors could also affect the pricing of derivatives and make it more difficult for us to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms or at all.. The nature of our assets exposes us to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our oil and gas exploration, production and other activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including agency interpretations thereof and governmental enforcement policies, which have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory, cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations also increases the cost of our operations and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations.. Strict or joint and several liability to remediate contamination may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. New or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Please read \"Business and Properties  -  Environmental, Health and Safety Matters and Regulation\" for more information.. We may be unable to compete effectively with larger companies, which may adversely affect our operations and profitability.. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with companies that have greater resources, including an increased ability to attract, compensate and retain quality employees. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and gas, but also refine and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects or identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration or exploitation activities during periods of low oil and gas market prices. Our larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will depend upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment.. Possible regulation related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and gas.. Certain studies have suggested that human-caused emissions of GHGs, including CO2 and methane, are contributing to the warming of the Earth's atmosphere and significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress has considered, and in the future may consider, legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs. In addition, federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of climate change regulation under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development, and several states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs. Federal, state and local governments may also pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and gas. As a result of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in April 2007, in Massachusetts v. EPA and subsequent decisions, the EPA also has begun to regulate GHG emissions from mobile and stationary sources under the Clean Air Act, even though Congress has not enacted new legislation specifically authorizing such regulation. In June 2014, the United States Supreme Court invalidated part of the EPA's stationary source GHG program in Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA, but the Supreme Court also ruled that major sources subject to the PSD or Title V programs because of non-GHG pollutant emissions could be subjected to certain \"best available control technology\" requirements to curb their GHG emissions.. 35. In January 2015, former President Obama announced a comprehensive strategy to further reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector. As part of this strategy, in September 2015 the EPA published proposed amendments to the 2012 New Source Performance Standards (\"NSPS\") Subpart OOOO rules focused on achieving additional methane and volatile organic compound reductions from the oil and gas industry. In June 2016 EPA published final amendments to the 2012 NSPS Subpart OOOO rules, as well as new final rules focused on achieving additional methane and volatile organic compound reductions from the oil and gas industry. The new final rules in NSPS Subpart OOOOa impose requirements for leak detection and repair, control requirements at hydraulically fractured oil well completions, replacement of certain pneumatic pumps and controllers, and additional control requirements for gathering, boosting, and compressor stations, among other things. These final revised and new rules issued in 2013, 2014 and 2016 require modifications to our operations as promulgated, increasing our capital and operating costs. The revised and new final rules in NSPS Subparts OOOO and OOOOa are the subject of numerous court challenges currently pending in the federal Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, although the rules remain effective and have not been stayed.  Finally, EPA has recently proposed a two-year stay of the Subpart OOOOa rules to allow for their further reconsideration, revision or rescission.. Additionally, the federal Bureau of Land Management (BLM) has finalized standards for reducing venting and flaring on public lands. The final rule was published in the Federal Register on November 18, 2016. The final rule is the subject of pending litigation in the District of Wyoming federal court by industry members and certain states seeking to overturn the rule in part. Although the court denied a request for preliminary injunction to prevent the rule from taking effect on January 17, 2017, the District of Wyoming litigation is ongoing. In addition to the Wyoming litigation, there was litigation over a proposed stay of the rule in the Northern District of California.  The 2016 final rule included two different categories of requirements and implementation deadlines, one effective in 2017 and one in 2018. The 2017 requirements that included, among others, a \"waste minimization plan,\" are still in effect and implementation is ongoing. In December 2017, the BLM published a final rule suspending the remaining 2018 requirements for two years.  Continued litigation and/or updates to the rule are expected. The EPA and BLM actions are part of a series of steps by the Obama administration that were intended to result by 2025 in a 40-45% decrease in methane emissions from the oil and gas industry as compared to 2012 levels.. In addition, substantial limitations on GHG emissions in other sectors, such as the power sector under the EPA's August 2015 Clean Power Plan, the implementation of which was stayed indefinitely by the U.S. Supreme Court in February 2016, could adversely affect demand for the oil and gas we produce. Further GHG regulation may result from the December 2015 agreement reached at the United Nations climate change conference in Paris (\"Paris Agreement\"). The United States was actively involved in the international negotiations in Paris. Pursuant to the Paris Agreement, the United States made an initial pledge to a 26-28% reduction in its GHG emission by 2025 against a 2005 baseline and committed to periodically update its pledge in five-year intervals starting in 2020. The Paris Agreement sets a goal of keeping global warming well below a two degrees Celsius increase and sets a target limit of 1.5 degrees.  The Paris Agreement was signed by the United States in April 2016, though the Trump administration has announced its intention to withdraw from the agreement. Passage of state or federal climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives or the adoption of regulations by the EPA and state agencies that restrict emissions of GHGs in areas in which we conduct business could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and gas.. It is uncertain whether our operations and properties, located in the southern region of the United States, are exposed to possible physical risks, such as severe weather patterns due to climate change, whether or not climate change is being caused or contributed to by human-caused emissions of GHGs.. In the courts, several decisions have been issued that may increase the risk of claims being filed by governments and private parties against companies that have significant GHG emissions. Such cases may seek to challenge air emissions permits that GHGs emitters apply for and seek to force emitters to reduce their emissions or seek damages for alleged climate change impacts to the environment, people, and property. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur additional operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems or other compliance costs, and could reduce demand for our products.. 36. Recently approved final rules regulating air emissions from gas processing operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which may be significant.. In April 2012, the EPA issued final rules that established additional emission controls for newly constructed or modified oil and gas production and gas processing operations, the NSPS Subpart OOOO rules. After several parties challenged these regulations in court, the EPA administratively reconsidered certain of the rules' requirements. As a result of such administrative reconsideration, the EPA issued final amendments to the NSPS subpart OOOO regulations in September 2013 and December 2014. Specifically, the EPA's revised rules included provisions to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and VOC and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and gas production and processing activities. The final Subpart OOOO rules include a 95% reduction in VOCs emitted by requiring the use of reduced emission completions or \"green completions\" on all hydraulically-fractured gas wells constructed or refractured after January 1, 2015. The rules also established specific new requirements regarding emissions from compressors, controllers, dehydrators, storage tanks and other production equipment. In June 2016, EPA published additional final amendments to the 2012 NSPS Subpart OOOO rules, as well as new final rules focused on achieving additional methane and VOC reductions from the oil and natural gas industry. The new final rules in NSPS Subpart OOOOa impose requirements for leak detection and repair, control requirements at hydraulically fractured oil well completions, replacement of certain pneumatic pumps and controllers, and additional control requirements for gathering, boosting, and compressor stations, among other things. The revised and new final rules in NSPS Subparts OOOO and OOOOa are the subject of numerous court challenges currently pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, although the rules remain effective. Additionally, the EPA has proposed a two year stay of the NSPS OOOOa rule to allow for the further reconsideration and possible revision or rescission.. In December 2014, the EPA also proposed to revise and lower the existing 75 ppb National Ambient Air Quality Standard (\"NAAQS\") for ground-level ozone under the federal Clean Air Act to a range within 60-70 ppb. On October 1, 2015, EPA finalized a rule lowering the standard to 70 ppb. In November 2016, EPA proposed a rule for implementing the new NAAQS, classifying nonattainment areas, and related State Implementation Plan requirements. The lowered ozone NAAQS could result in an expansion of ozone nonattainment areas across the United States, including areas in which we operate. Oil and gas operations in ozone nonattainment areas would likely be subject to increased regulatory burdens in the form of more stringent emission controls, emission offset requirements for new sources, and increased permitting delays and costs. These rules and air quality standard revisions could require a number of modifications to our operations, including the installation of new equipment to control emissions from our wells. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business.. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace.. We depend substantially on the performance of our executive officers and other key employees. We have entered into employment agreements with certain of these employees, but we do not maintain key personnel life insurance policies on any of these employees. The loss of any member of the senior management team or other key employees could negatively affect our ability to execute our business strategy.. Work stoppages, protests or other labor issues at our facilities could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are generally satisfactory, we may be subject to work stoppages at the facilities of our customers or suppliers, which may negatively affect our business. If any of our customers experience a material work stoppage, the customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. Moreover, if any of our suppliers experience a work stoppage, our operations could be adversely affected if an alternative source of supply is not readily available. Any of these events could be disruptive to our operations and could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or operations could adversely affect our business.. The U.S. government has issued warnings that U.S. energy assets may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected our operations to increased risks. Any terrorist attack at our facilities, or those of our customers or suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 37. We are subject to cyber security risks.. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production, processing, distribution and accounting activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering transportation systems, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, and process and record financial and operating data. Pipelines, refineries, power stations and distribution points for both fuels and electricity are becoming interconnected by computer systems. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. Our technologies, systems, networks, and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. We recently became victims of a \"spear phishing\" attack on one of our employees in which sensitive employee information was stolen. We immediately took all necessary and appropriate steps to mitigate losses for the Company and the individuals whose information was compromised. Although to date we have not experienced any material financial losses relating to cyber attacks, we may suffer such losses in the future. We may be required to expend significant resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.. The Endangered Species Act restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Oil and gas activities in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling and other operating activities designed to protect various species and their habitat. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published a final rule on February 11, 2016, that clarifies, interprets, and makes minor edits to the scope and purpose, adds and removes some definitions, and clarifies the criteria and procedures for designating critical habitat. Changes in listed species and their critical habitat designations may lead to seasonal restrictions that could limit our ability to operate in protected areas and can intensify competition for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which then could lead to periodic shortages when drilling is allowed. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where we operate as threatened or endangered could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures and could result in limitations on our exploration and production activities that could have an adverse impact on our ability to develop and produce our reserves.. Our plans for future strategic acquisitions may require substantial capital, which we may be unable to obtain on favorable terms or at all and which is likely to require us to incur additional indebtedness.. Our industry is capital intensive, and one component of our strategy has been to grow our reserves and production by acquiring oil and gas producing and undeveloped properties. We actively evaluate the acquisition of properties that are prospective for production of oil, gas and NGL, particularly in the Permian Basin. Future acquisitions that we may pursue may require us to incur additional indebtedness and leverage our existing assets. To date, we have financed such acquisitions primarily with proceeds from equity issuances, bank borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, cash generated by operations and the issuance of the Senior Notes. We could finance future acquisitions utilizing similar financing sources, which may include amending our Revolving Credit Facility and expanding the borrowing base and the sale of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance as to the availability of any additional financing or that the terms will be acceptable to us. Our inability to obtain additional financing or sufficient financing on favorable terms may adversely affect our growth, competitiveness and profitability. Further, the incurrence of additional indebtedness could have material adverse effects on our financial condition and liquidity and limit our future flexibility and growth opportunities.. 38. If we do not make acquisitions of reserves on economically acceptable terms, our future growth and ability to maintain production will be limited to only the growth we may achieve through the development of our proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves and exploration of our non-proved leaseholds.. Producing oil and gas reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. The rate of decline we have projected for our existing wells may be different than the decline rate actually realized. Our future oil and gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent upon our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves.. We intend to grow by bringing our proved developed non-producing reserves into production, developing our proved undeveloped reserves and exploring for and finding additional reserves on our unproved properties. Our ability to further grow depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions. We may be unable to make such acquisitions because we are:. •  unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with the seller;. •  unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; or. •  outbid by competitors.. If we are unable to acquire properties containing proved reserves at acceptable costs, our total level of proved reserves and associated future production will decline as a result of the ongoing production of our reserves.. Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our stockholder rights plan could impede or discourage a takeover that our stockholders may consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. These provisions include:. •  limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend our charter documents, including stockholder supermajority voting requirements;. •  the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings;. •  a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms;. •  the authority of our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine and to issue additional shares of our common stock;. •  advance notice procedures with respect to stockholder proposals and the nomination of candidates for election as directors; and. •  a stockholder rights plan, that was approved by the Company's stockholders at the 2017 annual meeting in May 2017, that allows any common stockholder to purchase Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for a specified amount 10 days after the public announcement that a person or a group has become an \"Acquiring Person.\". Stock prices of equity securities can be volatile, and there is no assurance that a holder of our common stock will be able to resell the common stock purchased at a price in excess of the purchase price.. The stock prices of companies on the U.S. securities markets have been volatile, increasing or decreasing not only in response to the company financial or operating results, but the general economic trends or events. In addition, stock prices of companies in the oil and gas industry are significantly affected by commodity prices for oil and gas. In particular, our stock price was very volatile during 2017, trading between $23.64 and $49.14 per share. All of these factors are beyond our control, and could have drastic impacts occurring within short periods of time. These factors could cause a decrease in the stock price following purchase, and a purchaser of our stock may not be able to sell their common stock for a price exceeding the purchase price.. Future sales of our common stock in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, substantially dilute existing stockholders and our ability to continue to raise funds in new equity offerings.. Future sales of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for, our common stock in public or private offerings could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, could potentially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of securities.  This is particularly true if such sales occur at depressed stock prices.  In addition, the perceived risk of dilution may cause some stockholders to sell their shares, which may further reduce the market price of our common stock.. 39. If we were to experience an \"ownership change,\" we could be limited in our ability to use certain tax attributes arising prior to the ownership change to offset future taxable income.. If we were to experience an \"ownership change,\" as determined under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, our ability to offset taxable income arising after the ownership change by utilizing NOLs arising prior to the ownership change would be limited, possibly substantially. Additionally, the deductibility of any pre-ownership change disallowed interest expense carryforward amount pursuant to the Tax Act's limitation of the deductibility of net business interest expense, would also be limited post-ownership change. An ownership change would establish an annual limitation on the amount of our pre-ownership change losses, including NOLs and disallowed interest expense carryforward, that we could utilize in any future taxable year to an amount generally equal to the value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate.. Future Treasury Regulations relating to, and interpretations of, recently enacted U.S. federal income tax laws may vary from our current interpretation of such laws.. The recently enacted Tax Act is highly complex and there are numerous interpretive issues and ambiguities in connection with the Tax Act that require guidance and that are not clearly addressed by its legislative history. The presentation of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our current interpretation of the provisions contained in the Tax Act. Our analysis of the Tax Act may be impacted by any corrective legislation and by any guidance provided by the U.S. Department of Treasury, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or by the General Explanation of the Tax Act, which is under preparation by the staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. Any significant variance of our current interpretation of the Tax Act from any future Treasury Regulations or other interpretive guidance could result in a change to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and could negatively affect our business.. Risks Related to the disposition of our Aneth Field Properties. We repositioned Resolute to a pure-play Delaware Basin company by disposing of our Aneth Field Properties, and the divesture could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. In November 2017, we disposed of our Aneth Field Properties in order to reposition us as a pure-play Delaware Basin company. The disposition of Aneth Field Properties provided meaningful additional capital to the Company. This capital was deployed initially to reduce leverage.. Aneth Field was a meaningful part of our operations, and sales of oil and gas from Aneth Field represented a meaningful part of our total cash flow. At December 31, 2016, Aneth Field held approximately 41% of our net proved reserves and averaged production of 6,161 Boe per day in 2016 (representing 44% of total Company production), of which approximately 95% was oil. During 2016, Aneth Field had sales of 2,132 MBbl of oil and 739 MMcf of gas with average realized prices of $36.37 per Bbl of oil and $1.31 per Mcf of gas with average production costs of $20.24 per Boe of lease operating expenses and $4.31 per Boe of production and ad valorem taxes. Additionally at December 31, 2016, Aneth Field consisted of 43,218 developed gross acres or 67.1% of our total developed gross acreage and 27,157 developed net acres or 60.5% of our total developed net acreage.. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, Aneth Field averaged production of 4,974 Boe per day (representing 20% of total Company production). These 2017 sales were comprised of 1,734 MBbl of oil and 489 MMcf of gas with average realized prices of $42.44 per Bbl of oil and $1.72 per Mcf of gas with average production costs of $21.57 per Boe of lease operating expenses and $5.02 per Boe of production and ad valorem taxes.. The price we ultimately receive from the divestiture of the Aneth Field Properties will be contingent on the price of oil whereby we may receive up to $35 million in additional consideration if oil prices exceed certain levels in the three years following the closing (as specified in the additional cash consideration clause outlined in Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) and may be affected by the foregoing or other factors. This additional consideration is an unsecured obligation of the parent entity of the buyer and therefore may not be collectible in the future. Additionally, there can be no assurances that our subsequent investments in the Delaware Basin from the proceeds and the redeployment of resources made available by the sale of our Aneth Field Properties will meet our internal production and profitability projections for a pure-play Delaware Basin strategy or even meet current production and profitability projections prior to divesting of the Aneth Field Properties. We previously depended in part on the cash flow generated by our Aneth Field Properties for the payment of our indebtedness, and if we do not meet our internal projections and experience lower cash flow due to the sale of our Aneth Field Properties, it may materially adversely affect our ability make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Consequently, the sale of our Aneth Field Properties could materially adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. 40. Risks Related to the Delaware Basin acquisitions. The Delaware Basin acquisitions may not achieve their intended results.. We consummated the Delaware Basin Firewheel Acquisition and the Delaware Basin Bronco Acquisition with the expectation that these acquisitions would result in various benefits, growth opportunities and synergies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of any transaction is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Title and other problems could reduce the value of the properties to us, and, depending on the circumstances, we could have limited or no recourse to Firewheel with respect to those problems. We assumed substantially all of the liabilities associated with the acquired properties and will be entitled to indemnification in connection with those liabilities in only limited circumstances and limited amounts. We cannot assure you that such potential remedies will be adequate for any liabilities we incur, and such liabilities could be significant.. The success of these acquisitions depends on, among other things, the accuracy of our assessment of the reserves associated with the acquired properties, future oil, NGL and gas prices and operating costs and various other factors. These assessments are necessarily inexact. As a result, we may not recover the purchase price for an acquisition from the sale of production from the property or recognize an acceptable return from such sales. Although the properties acquired are subject to many of the risks and uncertainties to which our business and operations are subject, risks associated with these acquisitions include those associated with the significant size of the transaction relative to our existing operations.. The reserves and production estimates with respect to the properties acquired in the Delaware Basin acquisitions may differ materially from the actual amounts.. The reserves and production estimates with respect to the properties acquired in the Delaware Basin Firewheel Acquisition and the Delaware Basin Bronco Acquisition are based on our analysis of historical production data, assumptions regarding capital expenditures and anticipated production declines. We cannot assure you that these estimates are accurate.. Risks Related to our Convertible Preferred Stock. We are not obligated to pay dividends on the convertible preferred stock and no payment or adjustment will be made upon conversion for any undeclared or, subject to limited exceptions, unpaid dividends.. Quarterly dividends on the convertible preferred stock are only payable when, as and if declared by our Board or an authorized committee thereof. Our Board is not legally obligated to declare dividends, even if we have funds available for such purposes. Under Delaware law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from \"surplus\" or, if there is no \"surplus,\" from the corporation's net profits for the then-current or the preceding fiscal year. Further, even if adequate surplus is available to pay dividends on the convertible preferred stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends on the convertible preferred stock.. No allowance or adjustment will be made upon conversion for any undeclared or, subject to limited exceptions, unpaid dividends."
