[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Company's Business and Operations. There are risks relating to investments in real estate.. Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk.  Real estate values are affected by a number of factors, including:  changes in the general economic climate, local conditions (such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in an area), the quality and philosophy of management, competition from other available space, the ability of the owner to provide adequate maintenance and insurance and to control variable operating costs, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorist activities and other factors in the areas in which the properties are located.  Shopping centers, in particular, may be affected by changing perceptions of retailers or shoppers regarding the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the shopping center, increasing consumer purchases through online retail websites and catalogs, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector and by the overall climate for the retail industry generally.  Real estate values are also affected by such factors as government regulations, interest rate levels, the availability of financing and potential liability under, and changes in, environmental, zoning, tax and other laws.  A significant portion of the Company's income is derived from rental income from real property.  The Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to service its debt obligations could be materially and adversely affected if a significant number of its tenants were unable to meet their obligations, or if it were unable to lease on economically favorable terms a significant amount of space in its properties.  In the event of default by a tenant, the Company may experience delays in enforcing, and incur substantial costs to enforce, its rights as a landlord.  In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with each equity investment (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment.. The Company operates in a highly competitive market and competition may limit its ability to acquire desirable assets and to attract and retain tenants.. The Company operates in a highly competitive market.  The Company's profitability depends, in large part, on its ability to acquire its assets at favorable prices and on trends impacting the retail industry in general, national, regional and local economic conditions, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends.  Many of the Company's competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, marketing and other resources than it does.  Other entities may raise significant amounts of capital, and may have investment objectives that overlap with the Company's.  In addition, the properties that the Company acquires may face competition from similar properties in the same market, as well as from e-commerce websites.  At the time of the commencement of the Company's operations, conditions in the capital markets and the credit markets reduced competitors' ability to finance acquisitions.  As access to capital and credit have improved and the number of competitors operating in the Company's markets have increased, the Company has faced increased competition for opportunities to acquire assets and to attract and retain tenants.  The presence of competitive alternatives affects the Company's ability to lease space and the level of rents it can obtain.  New construction, renovations and expansions at competing sites could also negatively affect the Company's properties.. 10. The Company may change any of its strategies, policies or procedures without stockholder consent, which could materially and adversely affect its business.. The Company may change any of its strategies, policies or procedures with respect to acquisitions, asset allocation, growth, operations, indebtedness, financing strategy and distributions, including those related to maintaining its REIT qualification, at any time without the consent of its stockholders, which could result in making acquisitions that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the types of acquisitions described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  A change in the Company's strategy may increase its exposure to real estate market fluctuations, financing risk, default risk and interest rate risk.  Furthermore, a change in the Company's asset allocation could result in the Company making acquisitions in asset categories different from those described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  These changes could materially and adversely affect the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. The Company's directors are subject to potential conflicts of interest.. The Company's executive officers and directors face conflicts of interest.  Except for Messrs. Tanz, Haines and Schoebel, none of the Company's executive officers or directors are required to commit their full time to its affairs and, accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities.  In addition, except for Mr. Tanz, each of the Company's directors (including the Company's non-Executive Chairman) is engaged in several other business endeavors.  In the course of their other business activities, the Company's directors may become aware of investment and business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to the Company as well as the other entities with which they are affiliated.  They may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented.. As a result of multiple business affiliations, the Company's non-management directors may have legal obligations relating to presenting opportunities to acquire one or more properties, portfolios or real estate-related debt investments to other entities.  The Company's non-management directors (including the Company's non-executive Chairman) may present such opportunities to the other entities to which they owe pre-existing fiduciary duties before presenting such opportunities to the Company.  In addition, conflicts of interest may arise when the Company's board of directors evaluates a particular opportunity.. Capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect the Company's financial condition, its results of operations and the value of its assets.. There are many factors that can affect the value of the Company's assets, including the state of the capital markets and economy.  The great recession negatively affected consumer spending and retail sales, which adversely impacted the performance and value of retail properties in most regions in the United States.  In addition, loans backed by real estate were difficult to obtain and that difficulty, together with a tightening of lending policies, resulted in a significant contraction in the amount of debt available to fund retail properties.  Although there has been improvement in the credit and real estate markets, any reduction in available financing may materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to achieve its financial objectives.  Concern about the stability of the markets generally may limit the Company's ability and the ability of its tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs.  Although the Company will factor in these conditions in acquiring its assets, its long term success depends in part on general economic conditions and the stability and dependability of the financing market for retail real estate.  If the national economy or the local economies in which the Company operates were to experience uncertainty, or if general economic conditions were to worsen, the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders could be materially and adversely affected.. Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease the Company's revenues and available cash.. In the case of many retail properties, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause the Company to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, and could allow other tenants to exercise so-called \"kick-out\" clauses in their leases and terminate their lease or reduce their rents prior to the normal expiration of their lease terms.  As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of major tenants could materially and adversely affect the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. 11. Inflation or deflation may materially and adversely affect the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and distributions to its stockholders.. Increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on the Company's property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than the Company's rents.  Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact the Company's tenants' sales and, in turn, the Company's percentage rents, where applicable, and the willingness and ability of tenants to enter into or renew leases and/or honor their obligations under existing leases.  Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income.. Compliance or failure to comply with safety regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs.. The Company's properties are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements.  If the Company fails to comply with these requirements, it could incur fines or private damage awards.  The Company does not know whether compliance with the requirements will require significant unanticipated expenditures that could affect its income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects and ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. The Company expects to acquire additional properties and this may create risks.. The Company expects to acquire additional properties consistent with its investment strategies.  The Company may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions on time, within budget or at all.  In addition, the Company may face competition in pursuing acquisition opportunities, which could result in increased acquisition costs.  When the Company does pursue a project or acquisition, it may not succeed in leasing newly acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover its costs of acquisition.  Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could result in poorer than anticipated performance.  The Company may also abandon acquisition opportunities that it has begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred.  Furthermore, acquisitions of new properties will expose the Company to the liabilities of those properties, including, for example, liabilities for clean-up of disclosed or undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons in respect of events transpiring or conditions existing before the Company's acquisition and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of properties.. Factors affecting the general retail environment could adversely affect the financial condition of the Company's retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in its shopping centers, and in turn, materially and adversely affect the Company.. The Company's properties are focused on the retail real estate market.  This means that the performance of the Company's properties will be impacted by general retail market conditions, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from online retail websites and catalog companies.  These conditions could adversely affect the financial condition of the Company's retail tenants and the willingness and ability of retailers to lease space, or renew existing leases, in the Company's shopping centers and to honor their obligations under existing leases, and in turn, materially and adversely affect the Company.. The Company's growth depends on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future.. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, the Company is required under the Code to annually distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain.  After the Company invests its cash on hand, it expects to depend primarily on the credit facility and other external financing (including debt and equity financings) to fund the growth of its business.  The Company's access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally.  As a result of changing economic conditions, the Company may be limited in its ability to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing debt maturities on favorable terms or at all and there can be no assurances as to when financing conditions will improve.. The Company does not have a formal policy limiting the amount of debt it may incur and its board of directors may change its leverage policy without stockholder consent, which could result in a different risk profile.. Although the Company's charter and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness the Company can incur, the Company's policy is to employ prudent amounts of leverage and use debt as a means of providing additional funds for the acquisition of its assets and the diversification of its portfolio.  The amount of leverage the Company will deploy for particular investments will depend upon its management team's assessment of a variety of factors, which may include the anticipated liquidity and price volatility of the assets in its portfolio, the potential for losses, the availability and cost of financing the assets, the Company's. 12. opinion of the creditworthiness of its financing counterparties, the health of the U.S. economy and commercial mortgage markets, the Company's outlook for the level, slope and volatility of interest rates, the credit quality of the tenants occupying space at the Company's properties, and the need for the Company to comply with financial covenants contained in the Company's credit agreements.  The Company's board of directors may change its leverage policies at any time without the consent of its stockholders, which could result in an investment portfolio with a different risk profile.. The Company could be adversely affected if it or any of its subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as amended (the \"1940 Act\").. The Company conducts its operations so that neither it, nor the Operating Partnership nor any of the Company's other subsidiaries, is required to register as investment companies under the 1940 Act.  If the Company, the Operating Partnership or the Company's other subsidiaries are required to register as an investment company but fail to do so, the unregistered entity would be prohibited from engaging in certain business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against such entity.  In addition, the contracts of such entity would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of the entity and liquidate its business.. Real estate investments' value and income fluctuate due to conditions in the general economy and the real estate business, which may materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to service its debt and expenses.. The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general and local economy and the real estate business.  These conditions may also limit the Company's revenues and available cash.  The rents the Company receives and the occupancy levels at its properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in conditions in the general economy and the real estate business.  If rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, the Company generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to its stockholders.  In addition, some of the Company's major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally do not decline when the related rents decline.. The lack of liquidity of the Company's assets could materially and adversely affect the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders, and could materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to value and sell its assets.. Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly.  As a result, the Company expects many of its investments will be illiquid and if it is required to liquidate all or a portion of its portfolio quickly, it may realize significantly less than the value at which it had previously recorded its investments.. The Company depends on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants, some of whom may not be able to pay.. The Company's financial results depend significantly on leasing space in its properties to tenants on economically favorable terms.  In addition, as a substantial majority of the Company's revenue comes from renting real property, the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders could be materially and adversely affected if a significant number of its tenants cannot pay their rent or if the Company is not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms.  If a tenant does not pay its rent, the Company may not be able to enforce its rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs.. Some of the Company's properties depend on anchor stores or major tenants to attract shoppers and could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of or a store closure by one or more of these tenants.. The Company's shopping centers are primarily anchored by national and regional supermarkets and drug stores.  The value of the retail properties the Company acquires could be materially and adversely affected if these tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations or cease their operations.  Adverse economic conditions may result in the closure of existing stores by tenants which may result in increased vacancies at the Company's properties.  Any periods of significant vacancies for the Company's properties could materially and adversely impact the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. 13. Loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. The Company derives significant revenues from anchor tenants such as Albertson's/Safeway Supermarkets, Kroger Supermarkets and Rite Aid Pharmacy.  As of December 31, 2017, these tenants are the Company's three largest tenants and accounted for 6.0%, 3.4% and 1.6%, respectively, of its annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis.  The Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, experiences a downturn in its business, materially defaults on its leases, does not renew its leases as they expire, or renews at lower rental rates.. The Company's inability to receive reimbursements of Common Area Maintenance (\"CAM\") costs from tenants could adversely affect the Company's cash flow.. CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services, administrative, property and liability insurance costs and security costs.  The Company may acquire properties with leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases or leases with a fixed CAM payment methodology which fixes its tenants' CAM contributions.  With respect to both variable and fixed payment methodologies, the amount of reimbursements for CAM costs that the Company is entitled to receive from its tenants pursuant to the terms of the respective lease agreements may be less than the actual CAM costs at the Company's properties. The Company's inability to recover or pass on CAM costs to its tenants, whether due to the terms of the Company's leases or vacancies at the Company's properties could adversely affect the Company's cash flow.. The Company may incur costs to comply with environmental laws.. The Company's operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety.  Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property.  The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination.  These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release.  The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may impair the Company's ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.  Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air.  The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (\"PCBs\") and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws.  The Company is also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals.  The Company could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from its properties.  Identification of compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to the Company.  Moreover, compliance with new laws or regulations such as those related to climate change, including compliance with \"green\" building codes, or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretations of existing laws may require material expenditures by the Company.. The Company faces risks associated with security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of its information technology (\"IT\") networks and related systems.. The Company faces risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside the Company or persons with access to systems inside the Company, and other significant disruptions of the Company's IT networks and related systems.  The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.  The Company's IT networks and related systems are essential to the operation of its business and its ability to perform day-to-day operations (including managing its building systems).  There can be no assurance that the Company's efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of IT networks and related systems will be effective or that attempted security. 14. breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging.  A security breach or other significant disruption involving the Company's IT networks and related systems could materially and adversely impact the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damage from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures.  Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business.  We may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could impair the Company's assets and have a material and adverse effect on its income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. The Company believes the risks associated with its business will be more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values.  Declines in real estate values, among other factors, could result in a determination that the Company's assets have been impaired.  If the Company determines that an impairment has occurred, the Company would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations in the period in which the impairment charge is recorded.  Although the Company will take current economic conditions into account in acquiring its assets, the Company's long term success, and the value of its assets, depends in part on general economic conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control.  If the national economy or the local economies in which the Company operates experience uncertainty, or if general economic conditions were to worsen, the value of the Company's properties could decline, and the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders, could be materially and adversely affected.. Loss of key personnel could harm the Company's operations.. The Company is dependent on the efforts of certain key personnel of its senior management team.  While the Company has employment contracts with each of Messrs. Tanz, Haines and Schoebel, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm the Company's operations and have a material and adverse effect on its income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. Under their employment agreements, certain members of the Company's senior management team will have certain rights to terminate their employment and receive severance in connection with a change in control of the Company.. The Company's employment agreements with each of Messrs. Tanz, Haines and Schoebel, which provide that, upon termination of his employment (i) by the applicable officer within 12 months following the occurrence of a change in control (as defined in the employment agreement), (ii) by the Company without cause (as defined in the employment agreement), (iii) by the applicable officer for good reason (as defined in the employment agreement), (iv) by non-renewal of the applicable officer's employment agreement or (v) by reason of the applicable officer's death or disability (as defined in the employment agreement), such executive officers would be entitled to certain termination or severance payments made by the Company (which may include a lump sum payment equal to defined percentages of annual salary and prior years' average bonuses, paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of the respective agreement).  In addition, the vesting of all his outstanding unvested equity-based incentives and awards would accelerate.  These provisions make it costly to terminate their employment and could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium paid for shares of its common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of its stockholders.. Joint venture investments could be materially and adversely affected by the Company's lack of sole decision-making authority or reliance on a joint venture partner's financial condition.. The Company may enter into joint venture arrangements in the future.  Investments in joint ventures involve risks that are not otherwise present with properties which the Company owns entirely.  In a joint venture investment, the Company may not have exclusive control or sole decision-making authority over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of. 15. these investments.  As a result, the joint venture partner might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company's goals or interests, take action contrary to the Company's interests or otherwise impede the Company's objectives.  Joint venture investments involve risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the joint venture partner failing to provide capital and fulfill its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to the Company for guarantees and other commitments, the risk of conflicts arising between the Company and its partners and the difficulty of managing and resolving such conflicts, and the difficulty of managing or otherwise monitoring such business arrangements.  The joint venture partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt, which may result in significant losses to the Company.  Further, although the Company may own a controlling interest in a joint venture and may have authority over major decisions such as the sale or refinancing of investment properties, the Company may have fiduciary duties to the joint venture partners or the joint venture itself that may cause, or require, it to take or refrain from taking actions that it would otherwise take if it owned the investment properties outright.. Uninsured losses or a loss in excess of insured limits could materially and adversely affect the Company.. The Company carries comprehensive general liability, fire, extended coverage, loss of rent insurance, and environmental liability where applicable on its properties, with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties.  There are certain types of losses, such as losses resulting from wars or acts of God that generally are not insured because they are either uninsurable or not economically insurable.  Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, the Company could lose capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from a property, while remaining obligated for any mortgage indebtedness, or other financial obligations or liabilities related to the property.  Any loss of these types could materially and adversely affect the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects and ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. The Company could be materially and adversely affected by poor market conditions where its properties are geographically concentrated.. The Company's performance depends on the economic conditions in markets in which its properties are concentrated.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company's properties in California, Washington and Oregon accounted for 66%, 19% and 15%, respectively, of its consolidated property operating income.  The Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders could be materially and adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in an area, deteriorate in California, Washington and Oregon.  Moreover, due to the geographic concentration of its properties, the Company may be disproportionately affected by general risks such as natural disasters, including major fires, floods and earthquakes, severe or inclement weather, and acts of terrorism should such developments occur in or near the markets in California, Washington and Oregon in which the Company's properties are located.. Should the Company decide at some point in the future to expand into new markets, it may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. The Company's properties are concentrated in California, Washington and Oregon.  If the opportunity arises, the Company may explore acquisitions of properties in new markets inside or outside of these states.  Each of the risks applicable to the Company's ability to successfully acquire, integrate and operate properties in its current markets may also apply to its ability to successfully acquire, integrate and operate properties in new markets.  In addition to these risks, the Company's management team may not possess the same level of knowledge with respect to market dynamics and conditions of any new market in which the Company may attempt to expand, which could materially and adversely affect its ability to operate in any such markets.  The Company may be unable to obtain the desired returns on its investments in these new markets, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects and ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. Risks Related to Financing. The Company's term loan, credit facility and unsecured senior notes contain restrictive covenants relating to its operations, which could limit the Company's ability to respond to changing market conditions and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. The Company's term loan, credit facility and unsecured senior notes contain restrictive covenants.  These or other limitations, including those that may apply to future Company borrowings, may materially and adversely affect the Company's flexibility and. 16. its ability to achieve its operating plans and could result in the Company being limited in the amount of dividends and distributions it would be permitted to pay to its stockholders.. In addition, failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and the Company may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources.  Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to the Company, or may be available only on unattractive terms.. Certain of the Company's mortgage financing arrangements and other indebtedness contain provisions that could limit the Company's operating flexibility.. The Company's existing mortgage financing contains, and future mortgage financing may in the future contain, customary covenants and provisions that limit the Company's ability to pre-pay such mortgages before their scheduled maturity date or to transfer the underlying asset.  Additionally, the Company's ability to satisfy prospective mortgage lenders' insurance requirements may be materially and adversely affected if lenders generally insist upon greater insurance coverage against certain risks than is available to the Company in the marketplace or on commercially reasonable terms.  In addition, because a mortgage is secured by a lien on the underlying real property, mortgage defaults subject the Company to the risk of losing the property through foreclosure.. The Company's access to financing may be limited and thus its ability to potentially enhance its returns may be materially and adversely affected.. The Company intends, when appropriate, to employ prudent amounts of leverage and use debt as a means of providing additional funds for the acquisition of its assets and the diversification of its portfolio.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company's outstanding principal mortgage indebtedness was approximately $106.3 million, and the Company may incur significant additional debt to finance future acquisition and development activities.  The credit facility consists of a $600.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility and the Company has a $300.0 million term loan, of which $143.5 million and $300.0 million, respectively, were outstanding as of December 31, 2017.. In addition, the Operating Partnership issued $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes in December 2017 (the \"Senior Notes Due 2027\"), $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes in September 2016 (the \"Senior Notes Due 2026\"), $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes in December 2014 (the \"Senior Notes Due 2024\") and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes in December 2013 (the \"Senior Notes Due 2023\" and collectively with the Senior Notes Due 2024, the Senior Notes Due 2026 and the Senior Notes Due 2027, the \"unsecured senior notes\"), each of which were fully and unconditionally guaranteed by ROIC.. The Company's access to financing will depend upon a number of factors, over which it has little or no control, including:. • general market conditions;. • the market's view of the quality of the Company's assets;. • the market's perception of the Company's growth potential;. • the Company's eligibility to participate in and access capital from programs established by the U.S. government;. • the Company's current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and. • the market price of the shares of the Company's common stock.. Although the credit markets and real estate have recovered from the great recession, any reduction in available financing may materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to achieve its financial objectives.  Concern about the stability of the markets generally could adversely affect one or more private lenders and could cause one or more private lenders to be unwilling or unable to provide the Company with financing or to increase the costs of that financing.  In addition, if regulatory capital requirements imposed on the Company's private lenders change, they may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to the Company.  In general, this could potentially increase the Company's financing costs and reduce its liquidity or require it to sell assets at an inopportune time or price.. During times when interest rates on mortgage loans are high or financing is otherwise unavailable on a timely basis, the Company may purchase certain properties for cash or equity securities, including OP Units, or a combination thereof.  Consequently,. 17. depending on market conditions at the relevant time, the Company may have to rely more heavily on additional equity issuances, which may be dilutive to its stockholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that require a larger portion of its cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for its operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to its stockholders and other purposes.  The Company cannot assure you that it will have access to such equity or debt capital on favorable terms (including, without limitation, cost and term) at the desired times, or at all, which may cause it to curtail its asset acquisition activities and/or dispose of assets, which could materially and adversely affect its income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of the Company's debt payments and materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. Interest the Company pays could reduce cash available for distributions.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $143.5 million and $300.0 million outstanding under the Company's $600.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility and $300.0 million term loan, respectively, that bear interest at a variable rate.  In addition, the Company may incur variable rate debt in the future, including mortgage debt, borrowings under the credit facility or new credit facilities.  An increase in interest rates would increase the Company's interest costs, which could adversely affect the Company's cash flow, results of operations, ability to pay principal and interest on debt and pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders, and reduce the Company's access to capital markets.  In addition, if the Company needs to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, it may be required to incur additional indebtedness at higher rates.  From time to time, the Company may enter into interest rate swap agreements and other interest rate hedging contracts with the intention of lessening the impact of rising interest rates.  However, increased interest rates may increase the risk that the counterparties to such agreements may not be able to fulfill their obligations under these agreements, and there can be no assurance that these arrangements will be effective in reducing the Company's exposure to interest rate changes.  These risks could materially and adversely affect the Company's cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. Financing arrangements that the Company may use to finance its assets may require it to provide additional collateral or pay down debt.. The Company, when appropriate, uses traditional forms of financing including secured debt.  In the event the Company utilizes such financing arrangements, they would involve the risk that the market value of its assets which are secured may decline in value, in which case the lender may, in connection with a refinancing, require it to provide additional collateral, provide additional equity, or to repay all or a portion of the funds advanced.  The Company may not have the funds available to repay its debt or provide additional equity at that time, which would likely result in defaults unless it is able to raise the funds from alternative sources, which it may not be able to achieve on favorable terms or at all.  Providing additional collateral or equity would reduce the Company's liquidity and limit its ability to leverage its assets.  If the Company cannot meet these requirements, the lender could accelerate the Company's indebtedness, increase the interest rate on advanced funds and terminate its ability to borrow funds from them, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.  The providers of secured debt may also require the Company to maintain a certain amount of cash or set aside assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position.  As a result, the Company may not be able to leverage its assets as fully as it would choose which could reduce its return on assets.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to utilize such arrangements on favorable terms, or at all.. A downgrade in the Company's or the Operating Partnership's credit ratings could materially adversely affect the Company's business and financial condition.. The credit ratings assigned to the Company's obligations or to the debt securities of the Operating Partnership could change based upon, among other things, the Company's and the Operating Partnership's results of operations and financial condition.  These ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that any rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant.  Moreover, these credit ratings do not apply to the Company's common stock and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any other securities.  If any of the credit rating agencies that have rated the obligations of the Company or the debt securities of the Operating Partnership downgrades or lowers its credit ratings, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a so-called \"watch list\" for a possible downgrading or lowering or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's costs and availability of capital, which could in turn materially and adversely impact the Company's income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay dividends and other distributions to its stockholders.. 18. Risks Related to the Company's Organization and Structure. The Company depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries.  The creditors and any preferred equity holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to the Company.. Substantially all of the Company's assets are held through the Operating Partnership, which holds substantially all of the Company's properties and assets through subsidiaries.  The Operating Partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of the Company's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the Operating Partnership.  The creditors and any preferred equity holders of the Company's direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its common equity holders.  Thus, the Operating Partnership's ability to make distributions to the Company and therefore the Company's ability to make distributions to its stockholders will depend on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to creditors and any preferred equity holders and then to make distributions to the Operating Partnership.. In addition, the Company's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including the holders of the unsecured senior notes and trade creditors, and preferred equity holders are satisfied.. Certain provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the \"MGCL\") may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for holders of the Company's common stock or otherwise be in their best interests, including:. • \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to certain limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between the Company and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the Company's shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special minimum price provisions and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. • \"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of the Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the Company's stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. However, the provisions of the MGCL relating to business combinations do not apply to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the Company's board of directors prior to the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder.  In addition, the Company's bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of the Company's common stock.  There can be no assurance that such exemption will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future.. Additionally, Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits the Company's board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in the Company's charter or bylaws, to take certain actions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium to the market price of its common stock or otherwise be in the stockholders' best interests.  These provisions of the MGCL permit the Company, by provision in its charter or bylaws or a resolution of its board of directors and notwithstanding any contrary provision in the charter or bylaws, to adopt:. • a classified board;. • a two-thirds vote requirement for removing a director;. • a requirement that the number of directors be fixed only by vote of the board of directors;. • a requirement that a vacancy on the board be filled only by the remaining directors in office and (if the board is classified) for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred; and. 19. • a majority requirement for the calling of a stockholder-requested special meeting of stockholders.. The authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock and the ownership limitations contained in the Company's Charter may prevent a change in control.. The Company's charter authorizes the Company to issue authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.  In addition, the Company's charter provides that the Company's board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to authorize the Company to issue any authorized but unissued shares of stock, to classify any unissued shares of preferred stock and to reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or previously-classified shares of preferred stock into other classes or series of stock.  As a result, the Company's board of directors may establish a series of shares of preferred stock or use such preferred stock to create a stockholder's rights plan or so-called \"poison pill\" that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for shares of the Company's common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the Company's stockholders.. In addition, the Company's charter contains restrictions limiting the ownership and transfer of shares of the Company's common stock and other outstanding shares of capital stock.  The relevant sections of the Company's charter provide that, subject to certain exceptions, ownership of shares of the Company's common stock by any person is limited to 9.8% by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of common stock (the common share ownership limit), and no more than 9.8% by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding capital stock (the aggregate share ownership limit).  The common share ownership limit and the aggregate share ownership limit are collectively referred to herein as the \"ownership limits.\"  These provisions will restrict the ability of persons to purchase shares in excess of the relevant ownership limits.  The Company's board of directors has established exemptions from this ownership limit which permit certain institutional investors to hold additional shares of the Company's common stock.  The Company's board of directors may in the future, in its sole discretion, establish additional exemptions from this ownership limit.. The Company's failure to qualify as a REIT would subject it to U.S. federal income tax and potentially increased state and local taxes, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to its stockholders.. The Company intends to operate in a manner that will enable it to continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  The Company has not requested and does not intend to request a ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service that it will continue to qualify as a REIT.  The U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex.  The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable U.S. Treasury Department regulations that have been promulgated under the Code (\"Treasury Regulations\") is greater in the case of a REIT that holds assets through a partnership, such as the Company, and judicial and administrative interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REIT qualification are limited.  To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet, on an ongoing basis, various tests regarding the nature of its assets and its income, the ownership of its outstanding shares, and the amount of its distributions.  Moreover, new legislation, court decisions or administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to qualify as a REIT.  Thus, while the Company believes that it has operated and intends to continue to operate so that it will qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in the Company's circumstances, no assurance can be given that it has qualified or will continue to so qualify for any particular year.. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and does not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, it would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on its taxable income, and distributions to its stockholders would not be deductible by it in determining its taxable income.  In such a case, the Company might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay its taxes.  The Company's payment of income tax would decrease the amount of its income available for distribution to its stockholders.  Furthermore, if the Company fails to maintain its qualification as a REIT, it would no longer be required to distribute substantially all of its net taxable income to its stockholders.  In addition, unless the Company were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions, it would not be eligible to re-elect to qualify as a REIT for four taxable years following the year in which it failed to qualify as a REIT.. Failure to make required distributions would subject the Company to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to its stockholders.. In order to qualify as a REIT, the Company must distribute to its stockholders each calendar year at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that the Company satisfies the 90% distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of its taxable income, it is subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on its undistributed income. In addition, the Company will incur a 4% non-deductible excise tax on. 20. the amount, if any, by which its distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. The Company intends to distribute its net income to its stockholders in a manner intended to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid the 4% non-deductible excise tax.. The Company's taxable income may exceed its net income as determined by the U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining its GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing its taxable income. In addition, the Company may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of economic income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets. For example, the Company may be required to accrue interest income on mortgage loans or other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities before it receives any payments of interest or principal on such assets. Similarly, some of the debt securities that the Company acquires may have been issued with original issue discount. The Company will generally be required to include such original issue discount in income based on a constant yield to maturity method. As a result of the foregoing, the Company may generate less cash flow than taxable income in a particular year. To the extent that the Company generates such non-cash taxable income in a taxable year, it may incur corporate income tax and the 4% non-deductible excise tax on that income if it does not distribute such income to stockholders in that year. In that event, the Company may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate assets at rates or times that it regards as unfavorable or make a taxable distribution of its shares in order to satisfy the REIT 90% distribution requirement and to avoid U.S. federal corporate income tax and the 4% non-deductible excise tax in that year.. In order to qualify as a REIT, prior to the end of each taxable year, the Company is required to distribute any earnings and profits of any corporation acquired by the Company in certain tax-deferred transactions to the extent that such earnings accrued at a time when such corporation did not qualify as a REIT. The Company has entered into certain transactions involving the tax-deferred acquisition of target corporations. The Company believes that it did not inherit any earnings and profits of such target corporations attributable to any period that such corporations did not qualify as a REIT. However, no assurance can be provided in this regard, and if the Company were determined to have inherited and retained any such earnings and profits, the Company's qualification as a REIT could be adversely impacted.. To maintain its REIT qualification, the Company may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions.. In order to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, the Company may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis, or possibly on a long-term basis, to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings.  These borrowing needs could result from, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments.. Even if the Company qualifies as a REIT, it may be required to pay certain taxes.. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes.  In addition, the Company may hold some of its assets through taxable REIT subsidiary (\"TRS\") corporations.  Any TRSs or other taxable corporations in which the Company owns an interest will be subject to U.S. federal, state and local corporate taxes.  Furthermore, the Company has entered into certain transactions in which the Company has acquired target entities in tax-deferred transactions. To the extent that such entities had outstanding U.S. federal income tax or other tax liabilities, the Company would succeed to such liabilities.. Payment of these taxes generally would decrease the cash available for distribution to the Company's stockholders.. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from regular corporations, which could materially and adversely affect the value of the Company's shares.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for certain qualified dividends payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for these reduced qualified dividend rates. However, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, under the  newly enacted Tax Cust and Jobs Act (H.R. 1, the \"TCJA\"), noncorporate taxpayers may deduct up to 20% of certain qualified business income, including \"qualified REIT dividends\" (generally, dividends received by a REIT shareholder that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income), subject to certain limitations, resulting in an effective maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such income. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividends from C corporations does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends, together with the recently reduced corporate tax rate (currently, 21%), could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the Company's common stock.. 21. Legislative, regulatory or administrative changes could adversely affect the Company.. The U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations governing REITs and their stockholders, as well as the administrative interpretations of those laws and regulations, are constantly under review and may be changed at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. No assurance can be given as to whether, when, or in what form, the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to the Company and its stockholders may be enacted. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations of U.S. federal tax laws could adversely affect an investment in the Company's common stock.. The newly enacted TCJA, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, significantly changes U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders, and may lessen the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT rather than as a C corporation. For additional discussion, see \"Recent U.S. Federal Income Tax Legislation\".. In certain circumstances, the Company may be liable for certain tax obligations of certain limited partners.. In certain circumstances, the Company may be liable for certain tax obligations of certain limited partners.  The Company has entered into tax protection agreements under which it has agreed to minimize the tax consequences to certain limited partners resulting from the sale or other disposition of certain of the Company's assets.  The obligation to indemnify such limited partners against adverse tax consequences is expected to continue until 2027.  The Company may enter into additional tax protection agreements in the future, which could extend the period of time during which the Company may be liable for tax obligations of certain limited partners.  During the period of these obligations, the Company's flexibility to dispose of the related assets will be limited. In addition, the amount of any indemnification obligations may be significant.. The Company cannot assure you of its ability to pay distributions in the future.. The Company intends to pay quarterly distributions and to make distributions to its stockholders in an amount such that it distributes all or substantially all of its REIT taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments.  The Company's ability to pay distributions may be materially and adversely affected by a number of factors, including the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  All distributions will be made, subject to Maryland law (or Delaware law, in the case of distributions by the Operating Partnership), at the discretion of the Company's board of directors and will depend on the Company's earnings, its financial condition, any debt covenants, maintenance of its REIT qualification and other factors as its board of directors may deem relevant from time to time.  The Company believes that a change in any one of the following factors could materially and adversely affect its income, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, the ability to service its debt obligations, the market price of its common stock and its ability to pay distributions to its stockholders:. • the profitability of the assets acquired;. • the Company's ability to make profitable acquisitions;. • unforeseen expenses that reduce the Company's cash flow;. • defaults in the Company's asset portfolio or decreases in the value of its portfolio; and. • the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates.. The Company cannot assure you that it will achieve results that will allow it to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions in the future.  In addition, some of the Company's distributions may include a return of capital."
