[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We could be subject to complex and costly regulatory activities.  Our business could suffer if we or our suppliers encounter manufacturing problems.  We could be subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the U.S.  Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. You should carefully consider the following material risks facing us.  If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially affected.. We Compete in a Marketplace Dominated by BD. We operate in an environment that is dominated by BD, the major syringe manufacturer in the U.S.  We initiated a lawsuit in 2007 against BD.  The suit was for patent infringement, antitrust practices, and false advertising.  The court severed the patent claims from the other claims.  The antitrust and false advertising case was dismissed in district court in August 2017 and we were awarded a take nothing judgment.  We have filed for appeal.. Although we have made limited progress in some areas, such as the alternate care and some international markets, our volumes are not as high as they should be given the nature and quality of our products and the federal and state legislation requiring the use of safe needle devices.  We believe this is due to BD's activities, despite our litigation efforts described briefly above.. We Have Generally Been Unable to Gain Sufficient Market Access to Achieve Profitable Operations. We have a history of incurring net operating losses.  We may experience operating losses in the future.  If we are unable to gain sufficient market access and market share, we may be unable to continue to finance research and development as well as support operations and expansion of production.. We Are Dependent on Our Aging Patent Protection. Our main competitive strength is our technology.  We are dependent on patent rights, and if the patent rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business would be adversely affected.  Patent protection is considered, in the aggregate, to be of material importance in the design, development, and marketing of products.. The Company holds exclusive rights under domestic and foreign patents and has pending applications related to the technology embodied in products that are currently marketed.  The Company also holds rights related to new products under development.  The patent rights held by the Company for various commercial products have remaining terms and expiration dates presently ranging from 2020 to 2032. Those patent rights cover significant features of the VanishPoint® syringes, blood collection sets and IV catheters, and of the Patient Safe® syringes and EasyPoint® retractable needles.. VanishPoint® syringes comprised 89.9% of sales in 2017 and patent coverage for those products will expire in 2020.  When the current patents for those syringes and other products expire in coming years, the Company may experience a significant and rapid loss of sales, and our competitive position in the marketplace may weaken if the Company becomes vulnerable to other competitors utilizing its technology.  Such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on profitability.. We do not maintain patent or trademark protection in all foreign countries, but, where possible, have taken steps to protect our patents and trademarks in those countries where we routinely conduct a material amount of business.  Our lack of patent and trademark protection, particularly in certain foreign countries, heightens the risk that our designs may be copied by a competitor.. 5. Table of Contents. Our Patents Are Subject to Litigation. We have been sued by BD and MDC Investment Holdings, Inc. for patent infringement.  This case has been administratively closed until our case against BD is resolved.  We expect this case may be reopened in 2018.  Patent litigation and challenges involving our patents are costly and unpredictable and may deprive us of market exclusivity for a patented product or, in some cases, third party patents may prevent us from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area.. We Are Vulnerable to New Technologies. Because we have a narrow focus on particular product lines and technology (currently, predominantly retractable needle products), we are vulnerable to the development of superior competing products and to changes in technology which could eliminate or reduce the need for our products.  If a superior technology is created, the demand for our products could greatly diminish.. Our Competitors Have Greater Resources. Our competitors have greater financial resources, larger and more established sales and marketing and distribution organizations, and greater market influence, including long-term contracts.  These competitors may be able to use these resources to improve their products through research and acquisitions or develop new products, which may compete more effectively with our products.  If our competitors choose to use their resources to create products superior to ours, we may be unable to sell our products and our ability to continue operations would be weakened.. International operations may be affected by legislation. We are subject to risks associated with our international operations.  In 2017, we used Chinese manufacturers to produce 82.9% of our products.  Trade protection measures and/or changes to import or export requirements could adversely impact our operations.  We cannot predict the impact of potential changes to U.S. foreign trade policy.  Additionally, we derive 21.7% of our revenues from international sales.  International sales, particularly in emerging market countries, are further subject to a variety of regulatory, economic, and political risks as well.. Our New Products May Not Replace Lost Vanishpoint® Sales After 2020. Presently existing patent coverage for VanishPoint® syringes will expire in 2020.  Following the patent expiration, expected declines in sales of VanishPoint® syringes, which currently comprise 89.9% of our revenues, means that our future success is dependent on new products.  We have engaged in research and development for many years to develop other commercially successful products.  Often, new products take a number of years to develop and sales of a new product may be disappointing.  Based on industry-wide trends, we anticipate that demand may increase for one of our newer products, the EasyPoint® needle.  Sales in 2017 for this product were 6.0% of our total revenues.. The Majority of Our Sales Are Filled Using Third Party Manufacturers. Most international sales, as well as a substantial portion of domestic sales, are filled by production from Chinese manufacturers.  In the event that we become unable to purchase such product from our Chinese manufacturers, we would need to find an alternate manufacturer for the blood collection set, IV catheter, Patient Safe® syringe, 0.5mL insulin syringe, 0.5mL autodisable syringe, and 2mL, 5mL, and 10mL syringes and we would increase domestic production for the 1mL and 3mL syringes.  Even with increased domestic production, we may not be able to avoid a disruption in supply.  In 2017, the 1mL and 3mL syringes made up 83.4% of our unit sales and 82.0% of our revenues. We have a strong relationship with our Chinese manufacturers and we communicate with them frequently.. 6. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in Supplies of Inventory Could Temporarily Increase Costs. Fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials and inventory and the ability to maintain favorable third party manufacturing arrangements and relationships could result in the need to manufacture all of our products in the U.S.  This could temporarily increase unit costs as we ramp up domestic production.. We Are Controlled by One Shareholder. Thomas J. Shaw, our President and Chief Executive Officer, has investment or voting power over a total of 53.8% of the outstanding Common Stock.  Mr. Shaw therefore has the ability to direct our operations and financial affairs and to elect members of our Board of Directors.  His interests may not always coincide with the Company's interests or the interests of other stockholders.  This concentration of ownership, for example, may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.  Mr. Shaw's rights under the Technology License Agreement, as the owner of the technology we produce, present similar conflicts of interest.. We Face Inherent Product Liability Risks. As a manufacturer and provider of safety needle products, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims.  If a product liability claim is made and damages are in excess of our product liability coverage, our competitive position could be weakened by the amount of money we could be required to pay to compensate those injured by our products.  In the event of a recall, we have recall insurance.. Our Business May Be Affected By Changes in The Health Care Regulatory Environment. In the U.S. and internationally, government authorities may enact changes in regulatory requirements, reform existing reimbursement programs, and/or make changes to patient access to health care, all of which could adversely affect the demand for our products and/or put downward pressure on our prices.  Future health care rulemaking could affect our business.  We cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking or changes in the law."
