[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investing in shares of our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition could suffer materially, the trading price of shares of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business is affected by economic factors and adverse developments in economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and the results of our operations.. Our business is impacted by the U.S. economic environment, employment levels, consumer confidence, changes in interest rates and instability in securities markets around the world, among other factors. In particular, changes in the U.S. economic climate could result in reduced demand in key end markets. Motorized recreational vehicle (\"RV\") purchases are discretionary in nature and therefore sensitive to wholesale and retail financing, consumer confidence, unemployment levels, disposable income and changing levels of consumer home equity. These factors result in RVs being discretionary purchases. The 2008 recession caused consumers to reduce their discretionary spending, which negatively affected our sales volumes for RVs. Terminal truck sales volumes are also impacted by economic conditions and industrial output, as these factors impact our end-market customers for these products, which include shipping ports, trucking/distribution hubs and rail terminal operators. Although RV and terminal truck sales have increased in recent years, these markets are affected by U.S. and global general economic conditions, which create risks that future economic downturns will further reduce consumer demand and negatively impact our sales.. 21. Table of Contents. While less economically sensitive than the Recreation segment, our Fire & Emergency and Commercial segments are also impacted by the overall economic environment. Local tax revenues are an important source of funding for fire and emergency response departments. Reduced municipal tax revenues resulting from the 2008 recession led to a decline in these markets. As fire and emergency apparatus and school buses are typically a larger cost item for municipalities and their service life is very long, their purchase is more deferrable. This can result in cyclicality in certain of our end markets, which in turn may result in fluctuations in our sales and results of operations.. In addition, while we estimate that there is significant pent-up replacement demand in certain of our end markets, that estimate has not been independently verified and is based on certain assumptions that may not prove to be accurate. As a result, these estimates could differ materially from actual demand and, to the extent the increase in demand is attributable to pent-up replacement demand rather than overall economic growth, future sales may lag behind improvements in general economic conditions. Furthermore, we cannot be certain as to the timing and extent to which the pent-up replacement demand may be released, as it is inherently uncertain and generally outside our control.. A decrease in employment levels, consumer confidence or the availability of financing, other adverse economic events, or the failure of actual demand for our products to meet our estimates, could negatively affect the demand for our products. Any decline in overall customer demand in markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance.. Some of the markets in which we compete are seasonal, which results in fluctuations in sales and results of operations.. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production and net income as a result of seasonality in our Recreation segment. Since RVs are used primarily by vacationers and campers, demand in the RV industry generally declines during the fall and winter months, while sales and profits are generally highest during the spring and summer months. Dealer demand and buying patterns may impact the timing of shipments from one quarter to another. In addition, severe weather conditions in some geographic areas may delay the timing of shipments from one quarter to another. Consequently, the results for any annual or quarterly prior period may not be indicative of results for any future annual or quarterly period.. Certain of our other products, such as school buses, have also historically been, and are expected to continue to be, seasonal. This seasonality has an impact on the comparability of our quarterly results. Moreover, weak macroeconomic conditions can adversely affect demand for certain of our products and lead to an overall aging of product fleets beyond a typical replacement cycle. During economic downturns that would result in lower demand of our vehicles, we may find it necessary to reduce production line rates and employee headcount. An economic downturn may reduce, and in the past has reduced, demand in all of our segments, resulting in lower sales volumes, lower prices and decreased operating profits or losses. Additionally, our business is subject to seasonal and other fluctuations. In particular, we have historically experienced higher sales during the third quarter and fourth quarter versus the first quarter and second quarter during each fiscal year. This seasonality is caused primarily by school districts ordering more school buses prior to the beginning of a school year, the consumer buying habits for RVs, municipal spending and budget cycles, the impact of travel and construction in the summer months, as well as how certain seasonal months aggregate into our fiscal quarters which are different than calendar quarters. Our ability to meet customer delivery schedules is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, access to components and raw materials, an adequate and capable workforce, assembling/engineering expertise for certain projects and sufficient manufacturing capacity. The availability of these factors may in some cases be subject to conditions outside of our control. A failure to deliver in accordance with our performance obligations may result in financial penalties under certain of our contracts and damage to existing customer relationships, damage to our reputation and a loss of future bidding opportunities, which could cause the loss of future business and could negatively impact our financial performance.. A disruption, termination or alteration of the supply of vehicle chassis or other critical components from third-party suppliers could materially adversely affect the sales of our products.. Our sales and our manufacturing processes depend on the supply of manufactured vehicle chassis and other critical components such as engines, transmissions and axles from major auto manufacturers and other original equipment manufacturers (\"OEMs\"), including Allison Transmission, Chrysler, Cummins, Ford, Freightliner, General Motors, Navistar and Volvo, among others. For the standardized, mass-produced chassis models, we convert the chassis for our customers under approved \"authorized converter\" agreements with the OEMs. We have tailored our products and processes to the specifications of these OEM agreements, and have built customer expectations and planning around these designs. We are therefore reliant on a consistent supply of chassis and the maintenance of our status as \"approved converters\" in order to maintain our sales. If these manufacturers experience production delays, we may receive a lower allocation of chassis than anticipated, or if the quality or design of their chassis changes, or if these manufacturers implement recalls, we could incur significant costs or disruptions to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, financial condition, profitability and/or cash flows. For example, Ford recently announced a recall with respect to certain Transit model van chassis used in certain of our products. We are currently reviewing the potential impact of this recall, which is limited to timing of product shipments, and we are attempting to mitigate the impact through substitutions and timing of the remediation process. We also carry increased inventory to protect against these concerns, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, certain important components that we use in our vehicles, such as engines and transmissions, are produced by a limited number of qualified suppliers and any disruption in their supply of such components to us would have a negative impact on our business.. 22. Table of Contents. Volatility in the financial markets generally, and in the truck and automotive sectors in particular, could impact the financial viability of certain of our key third-party suppliers, or could cause them to exit certain business lines, or change the terms on which they are willing to provide products. During the 2008-2010 automotive industry crisis, many vehicle manufacturers, including Ford and General Motors, idled factories and reduced their output of vehicle chassis. A recurrence of that crisis or another similar development could lead to difficulties in meeting our customers' demands and reduce our overall sales volume. Further, any changes in quality or design, capacity limitations, shortages of raw materials or other problems could result in shortages or delays in the supply of vehicle chassis or components to us. Our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer if our suppliers reduce output or introduce new chassis models that are unpopular with our customers or are incompatible with our current product designs or production process.. We face intense competition in our markets, which may harm our financial performance and growth prospects.. We operate in a highly competitive environment in each of the markets we serve and we face competition in each of our product segments from numerous competitors. We compete principally on the basis of client-specific customization, product quality and reliability, breadth of product offering, manufacturing capability and flexibility, technical capability, product innovation, customer service, after-sales support, delivery times and price. Certain of our competitors are smaller companies which may have lower operating costs and greater operational flexibility, and may have focus on regional markets where they have competitive advantages of proximity and relationships with local municipalities or other regional customers. Other of our competitors are large, well-established companies with capacity, financial and other resources that may be in excess of ours. Additionally, companies that are not currently competitors but that are involved in the specialty vehicle market (such as a supplier) or that operate in an adjacent market (such as a producer of mainstream cars and trucks) could choose to enter the specialty vehicle market.. Our profitability is sensitive to changes in the balance between supply and demand in the specialty vehicle market. Competitors having lower operating costs than we do will have a competitive advantage over us with respect to products that are particularly price-sensitive. New manufacturing facilities may be built or idle production lines may be activated. Additionally, imbalances in the regional supply and demand for our products could result in increased competition in the markets in which we compete.. We may also face competition from companies developing zero-emissions specialty vehicles or other technologies to minimize emissions. Competition from these companies could make our specialty vehicles less desirable in the market place.. As a result of the foregoing factors, we may lose customers or be forced to reduce prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. If we are unable to successfully identify and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Acquisitions have been and are likely to continue to be a significant component of our growth strategy. From time to time we seek to identify and complete acquisitions. Our historical acquisitions include MRV and certain assets of SJC in early 2013, the Thor Bus Acquisition in late 2013, KME in April 2016, Renegade in December 2016, Ferrara and Midwest in April 2017 and AutoAbility in September 2017. We may continue making strategic acquisitions in the future. We cannot assure you that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will generate the financial benefits that we expected we would achieve at the time of acquisition. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates in the future or acquire them on acceptable terms or, because of competition in the marketplace and limitations imposed by the agreements governing our indebtedness or the availability of capital, that we will be able to finance future acquisitions. Acquisitions involve special risks, including, without limitation, the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies, difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disruption of our existing business, dissipation of our limited management resources and impairment of relationships with employees and customers of the acquired business as a result of changes in ownership. While we believe that strategic acquisitions can improve our competitiveness and profitability, these activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We may incur significant costs such as transaction fees, professional service fees and other costs related to future acquisitions. We may also incur integration costs following the completion of any such acquisitions as we integrate the acquired business with the rest of our Company. Although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of any acquired businesses will offset the incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net financial benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. 23. Table of Contents. If we are required to write down goodwill or other intangible assets, our financial condition and operating results would be negatively affected.. We have a substantial amount of goodwill and other finite and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. If we determine goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down all or a portion of these assets. Any write-downs would have a negative effect on our results of operations.. The method to compute the amount of impairment incorporates quantitative data and qualitative criteria including new information and highly subjective judgments that can dramatically change the determination of the valuation of an intangible asset in a very short period of time. These determinations are sensitive to minor changes in underlying assumptions as management's assumptions change with more information becoming available. The timing and amount of realized losses reported in earnings could vary if management's conclusions were different. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period.. Our business has meaningful working capital requirements and a decline in access to financing or operating results may have an adverse impact on our liquidity position.. Our business has meaningful working capital requirements. We had $229.1 million of long-term debt outstanding as of October 31, 2017. Our ability to make required payments of principal and interest on our debt will depend on our future performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, political and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, conditions could arise that could limit our ability to generate sufficient cash flows or access borrowings to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, which could further limit our financial flexibility or impair our ability to obtain alternative financing sufficient to repay our debt at maturity.. Our access to debt financing at competitive risk-based interest rates is partly a function of our credit ratings. A downgrade to our credit ratings could increase our interest rates, could limit our access to public debt markets, could limit the institutions willing to provide us credit facilities, and could make any future credit facilities or credit facility amendments more costly and/or difficult to obtain.. We believe that our cash on hand, together with funds generated by our operations and borrowings under our existing credit facilities, will provide us with sufficient liquidity and capital resources to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and other operating needs for the foreseeable future. Significant assumptions underlie this belief however, including, among other things, assumptions relating to future sales volumes, the successful implementation of our business strategies, the continuing availability of trade credit from certain key suppliers and that there will be no material adverse developments in our competitive market position, business, liquidity or capital requirements. Any failure to achieve earnings expectations may have an adverse impact on our available liquidity. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will continue to have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating needs. In the event that we do not have sufficient liquidity, we may be required to seek additional capital, reduce or cut back our operating activities, capital expenditures or otherwise alter our business strategy. If we obtain additional capital by issuing equity, the interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we incur additional debt, the agreements governing that debt may contain significant financial and other covenants that may materially restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that we could obtain refinancing or additional financing on favorable terms or at all.. We have meaningful contingent obligations, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. We have meaningful contingent liabilities with respect to certain items that, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In particular, we obtain certain vehicle chassis from automobile manufacturers under converter pool agreements. Upon being put into production, we become obligated to pay the manufacturer for the chassis. Chassis are typically converted and delivered to customers within 90 to 120 days of receipt. If the chassis are not converted within this timeframe of delivery, we generally purchase the chassis and record it as inventory or we are obligated to begin paying an interest charge on this inventory until purchased. Additionally, we have entered into repurchase agreements with certain lending institutions and are party to multiple agreements whereby we guarantee indebtedness of others, including losses under loss pool agreements. While we do not expect to experience material losses under these agreements, we cannot provide any assurance that these contingent liabilities will not be realized. See Note 18 to our 2017 audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of these contingent liabilities.. 24. Table of Contents. Our April 2017 ABL Facility and Term Loan Agreement contain, and agreements governing future indebtedness may contain, restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to access sufficient capital and operate our business.. Our April 2017 ABL Facility and Term Loan Agreement contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  incur certain liens;. •  consolidate or merge with other parties;. •  alter the business conducted by us and our subsidiaries;. •  make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions;. •  sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries;. •  enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions;. •  pay dividends on capital stock or issue, redeem, repurchase or retire capital stock or certain other indebtedness;. •  engage in transactions with affiliates; and. •  enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends.. In addition, the restrictive covenants in our April 2017 ABL Facility and Term Loan Agreement require us to maintain specified financial ratios and other business or financial conditions. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - April 2017 ABL Facility and Term Loan\" and \"Description of Certain Indebtedness.\" Our ability to comply with those financial ratios or other covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and our failure to comply with these ratios or other covenants could result in an event of default. These covenants may affect our ability to operate and finance our business as we deem appropriate. Our inability to meet obligations as they become due or to comply with various financial covenants contained in the instruments governing our current or future indebtedness could constitute an event of default under the instruments governing our indebtedness. If there were an event of default under our April 2017 ABL Facility, Term Loan Agreement or any future instruments governing our indebtedness, the holders of the affected indebtedness could declare all of the affected indebtedness immediately due and payable, which, in turn, could cause the acceleration of the maturity of all of our other indebtedness. We may not have sufficient funds available, or we may not have access to sufficient capital from other sources, to repay any accelerated debt. Even if we could obtain additional financing, the terms of the financing may not be favorable to us. In addition, substantially all of our assets are subject to liens securing our April 2017 ABL Facility and Term Loan. If amounts outstanding under our April 2017 ABL Facility or Term Loan were accelerated, our lenders could foreclose on these liens and we could lose substantially all of our assets. Any event of default under the instruments governing our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in the price of commodities could impact the cost or price of our products, which could impact our ability to sustain and grow earnings.. Our manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand factors, as well as other factors beyond our control. Raw material price fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We purchase, directly and indirectly through component purchases, significant amounts of aluminum, steel, plastics and other resins, brass and fiberglass products as well as other commodity-sensitive raw materials annually. In particular, in past years, steel and aluminum prices have experienced volatility which has been unforeseen and unexpected. Although we at times purchase steel, aluminum and other raw materials up to 24 months in advance in order to provide certainty regarding portions of our pricing and supply, for the majority of our raw material purchases we do not typically enter into any fixed-price contracts and may not be able to accurately anticipate future raw material prices for those inputs. Commodity pricing has fluctuated significantly over the past few years and may continue to do so in the future. Such fluctuations could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and impact the comparability of our results between financial periods.. Our international operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and other risks relating to doing business internationally.. Although the amount of our sales and costs denominated in foreign currencies is not currently significant, we may increase our international operations in the future, which would increase our exposure to risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in foreign currencies, changes in the economic strength of the countries in which we do business, difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights, burdens of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export and import laws and social, political and economic instability, including in China and other countries as a result of our joint venture with China's Chery Holding Group, under which we intend to sell specialty vehicles in China and internationally through Chery's existing distribution network. In particular, changes in currency values could also impact the level of foreign competition in our domestic. 25. Table of Contents. market as international products become more or less costly due to the relationship of the U.S. Dollar to other currencies. Currency exchange rates have fluctuated significantly over the past few years and may continue to do so in the future. Such fluctuations could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and impact the comparability of our results between financial periods.. Our inability to successfully manage the implementation of a company-wide enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system could adversely affect our operating results.. We are in the process of implementing a new Company-wide ERP system. This ERP system will replace many of our existing operating and financial systems, which is a major undertaking from a financial management and personnel perspective. Should the new ERP system not be implemented successfully throughout all our business units and within budget and on time, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and adversely affect our operations, including our potential ability to report accurate, timely and consistent financial results; our ability to purchase raw material from and pay our suppliers; and deliver products to customers on a timely basis and to collect our receivables from them. The implementation will also impact our parts and service business and our ability to perform warranty and thus if the implementation is not successful or on time, these operations will be negatively affected.. In addition, we have put teams together who are leading the implementation of the ERP system at all of our locations. To the extent that this team or key individuals are not retained through the implementation period, the success of our implementation could be compromised and the expected benefits would not be realized. If the new ERP system is not successfully implemented, it could negatively affect our future sales, profitability and financial condition.. Our business depends on the performance of dealers and disruptions within our dealer network could have a negative effect on our business.. We rely to a significant extent on our independent dealer networks to sell our products to end customers. We estimate that we distribute approximately 73% of our products through a system of independent, authorized dealers, many of whom sell products from competing manufacturers. Our business is therefore affected by our ability to establish new relationships and maintain relationships with existing dealers. The geographic coverage of our dealers and their individual business conditions can affect the ability of our dealers to sell our products to customers. In a number of markets, there is a lack of exclusivity with dealers, which may decrease our bargaining leverage. In addition, recent consolidation of dealers, as well as the growth of larger, multi-location dealers, may result in increased bargaining power on the part of dealers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our dealer agreements are typically for a multi-year term; however, the dealer can typically cancel the agreement for convenience without penalty upon 90 days' notice. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to renew our dealer agreements on favorable terms, or at all, at their scheduled expiration dates. Some of our dealer agreements include guarantees, which could have a negative impact on the financial performance of our Company if we are required to fulfill them. In addition, laws in many of the states in which we operate make it difficult for us to terminate dealer agreements, which may make it difficult for us to optimize our dealer network. No dealer or customer represented more than 5% of our annual revenue for fiscal year 2017, but there may continue to be consolidation and changes in the dealership landscape over time. If we are unable to renew a contract with one or more of our significant dealers or re-negotiate an agreement under more advantageous terms, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers.. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers. Many of our dealers finance their purchases of inventory with financing provided by lending institutions. A decrease in the availability of financing, more restrictive lending practices or an increase in the cost of such wholesale financing can prevent dealers from carrying adequate levels of inventory, which limits product offerings available to the end customer and could lead to reduced sales of our products. A small number of financial institutions provide the majority of our dealers' total financed vehicles outstanding in a floor plan financing program at any point in time. Substantial increases in interest rates and decreases in the general availability of credit have in the past had an adverse impact upon our business and results of operations and may do so again in the future. Further, a decrease in availability of consumer credit resulting from unfavorable economic conditions, or an increase in the cost of consumer credit, may cause consumers to reduce discretionary spending which could, in turn, reduce demand for our products and negatively affect our sales and profitability.. In addition, early in fiscal year 2016 we began assisting customers with arranging their financing with third parties for purchases of our products. Although we currently neither assume any balance sheet financing risk nor receive any direct economic benefit from these arrangements other than a minimal arrangement fee, we could be materially adversely affected in the future if third-party financiers were unable to provide this financing to our customers and our dealers were unable to obtain alternate financing, at least. 26. Table of Contents. until our customers were able to find a replacement financing source. Third-party financiers face a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair their access to capital and negatively affect their ability to provide financing solutions for our dealers and customers. Because third-party financiers serve as an additional source of financing options for dealers and customers, an impairment of their ability to provide such financial services could negatively affect our future sales and therefore our profitability and financial condition.. Our ability to execute our strategy is dependent upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel including our ability to retain and attract senior management and key employees.. Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel in key functions and geographic areas, including the members of our senior management team. In particular, we are dependent on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, train and retain qualified engineers and skilled labor with the requisite education, background and industry experience to assist in the development, enhancement, introduction and manufacture of our products and technology solutions.. Failure to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, whether as a result of an insufficient number of qualified local residents or the allocation of inadequate resources to training, integration and retention, could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and could have an adverse effect on our business prospects. Our success also depends to a large extent upon our ability to attract and retain key executives. These employees have extensive experience in our markets and are familiar with our business, systems and processes. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have an adverse effect, at least in the short to medium term, on significant aspects of our business, including the ability to manage our business effectively and the successful execution of our strategies. If certain of these employees decide to leave us, we could incur disruptions to the completion of certain initiatives and we could incur significant costs in hiring, training, developing and retaining their replacements.. We may discover defects in our vehicles potentially resulting in delaying new model launches, recall campaigns or increased warranty costs.. Meeting or exceeding many government-mandated safety standards is costly and often technologically challenging, especially where one or more government-mandated standards may conflict. Government safety standards require manufacturers to remedy defects related to motor vehicle safety through safety recall campaigns, and a manufacturer is obligated to recall vehicles if it determines that they do not comply with relevant safety standards. Should we or government safety regulators determine that a safety or other defect or noncompliance exists with respect to certain of our vehicles, there could be a delay in the launch of a new model, recalls of existing models or a significant increase in warranty claims, the costs of which could be substantial. Additionally, the vehicles we manufacture for sale are subject to strict contractually established specifications using complex manufacturing processes. If we fail to meet the contractual requirements for a vehicle or a part, we may be subject to warranty costs to repair or replace the part itself and additional costs related to the investigation and inspection of non-complying parts. These potential warranty and repair and replacement costs are generally not covered by our insurance. We establish warranty reserves that represent our estimate of the costs we expect to incur to fulfill our warranty obligations. We base our estimate for warranty reserves on our historical experience and other related assumptions. If actual results materially differ from these estimates, our results of operations could be materially affected.. In addition, we may not be able to enforce warranties and extended warranties received or purchased from our suppliers if such suppliers refuse to honor such warranties or go out of business. Also, a customer may choose to pursue remedies directly under its contract with us over enforcing such supplier warranties. In such a case, we may not be able to recover our losses from the supplier.. Cancellations, reductions or delays in customer orders, customer breaches of purchase agreements, or reduction in expected backlog may adversely affect our results of operations.. We provide products to our customers for which we are customarily not paid in advance. We rely on the creditworthiness of our customers to collect on our receivables from them in a timely manner after we have billed for products previously provided. While we generally provide products pursuant to a written contract which determines the terms and conditions of payment to us by our customers, occasionally customers may dispute an invoice and delay, contest or not pay our receivable. Further, in connection with dealers' wholesale floor-plan vehicle financing programs, we enter into repurchase agreements with certain lending institutions, customary in the industries in which we operate, which may require us to repurchase previously sold vehicles. Although our exposure under these agreements is limited by the resale value of the inventory we may repurchase, we may receive less than anticipated on such resale and would collect payment on such resale later than originally expected. Our failure to collect our receivables or to resell and collect on repurchased vehicles on a timely basis could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations and, in certain cases, could cause us to fail to comply with the financial covenants under our April 2017 ABL Facility, Term Loan Agreement or other outstanding debt.. 27. Table of Contents. We typically have backlog due to the nature of our production and sales process, and our financial results are affected if any backlog is deferred or canceled. Backlog represents the amount of sales that we expect to derive from signed contracts, including purchase orders and oral contracts that have been subsequently memorialized in writing. When a binding sale contract has been signed with a customer, the purchase price of the vehicle is included in backlog until it is completed, shipped and the revenue is recognized. When we sign a contract giving a potential purchaser an option to purchase a vehicle which only becomes binding on a non-refundable payment or a subsequent firm purchase order, we do not include the purchase price of the vehicle in backlog until the non-refundable payment has been made or the subsequent purchase order is formalized and the contract is a binding purchase contract. A customer may default on a purchase contract that has become binding, and we may not be able to convert sales contract backlog into sales. As a result, our estimates of backlog for some of our contracts could be affected by variables beyond our control and may not be entirely realized, if at all. In addition, given the nature of our customers and our markets, there is a risk that some amount of our backlog may not be fully realized in the future. Failure to realize sales from our existing or future backlog would negatively impact our financial results.. From time to time, we enter into large, multi-year contracts with federal and local government bodies. Due to the size of the contracts, there are often stringent approval processes that must be completed before the contract is finalized. As a result, until these contracts are finalized, there can be no assurance regarding the timing of our commencing work on any such contract, or the ultimate revenue that we may recognize under any such contract.. In addition, as a result of firm purchase orders from our customers, we enter into agreements to produce and sell vehicles at a specified price with certain adjustments for changes and options based upon our estimation of the cost to produce and the timing of delivery. Due to the nature of these product cost estimates and the fluctuations in input costs and availability, we may underestimate the costs of production and therefore overestimate the profitability in our backlog. As a result, the actual profitability on those sales in the future may differ materially from our initial estimates when we recorded the firm purchase order in backlog.. Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations.. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (\"NTMVSA\") and the safety standards for vehicles and components which have been promulgated under the NTMVSA by the Department of Transportation. The NTMVSA authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects. Sales into foreign countries may be subject to similar regulations. School buses are also subject to heightened safety standards in many jurisdictions. Any recalls of our vehicles, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business and operating results.. In addition, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in personal injury and/or property damage. If we manufacture, or are alleged to have manufactured, a defective product or if component failures result in damages, we may experience material product liability losses in the future. In addition, we may incur significant costs to defend product liability claims. We are also subject to potential recalls of our products to cure manufacturing defects or in the event of a failure to comply with customers' order specifications or applicable regulatory standards, and may have to conduct recalls of our products due to defects in components or parts manufactured by suppliers which we purchase and incorporate into our products. We may also be required to remedy or retrofit vehicles in the event that an order is not built to a customer's specifications or where a design error has been made. The cost and impact to our reputation of significant retrofit and remediation events or product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Lastly, we are subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called \"lemon laws.\" In addition, certain laws and regulations affect other areas of our operations, including, labor, advertising, consumer protection, real estate, promotions, quality of services, intellectual property, tax, import and export duties, tariffs, anti-corruption and anti-competitive conduct. Compliance with these laws and others may be onerous and costly, at times, and may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction which further complicates compliance efforts. Violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have instituted various and comprehensive policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance. However, we cannot assure you that employees, contractors, vendors or our agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures.. 28. Table of Contents. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of our facilities, or a catastrophic loss of one of our key manufacturing facilities, may cause significant lost production and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our manufacturing process could be affected by operational problems that could impair our production capability. Many of our manufacturing facilities contain high cost and sophisticated machines that are used in our manufacturing process. Disruptions or shut downs at any of our facilities could be caused by:. •  maintenance outages to conduct maintenance activities that cannot be performed safely during operations;. •  prolonged power failures or reductions;. •  breakdown, failure or substandard performance of any of our machines or other equipment;. •  noncompliance with, and liabilities related to, environmental requirements or permits;. •  disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads;. •  fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, microbursts or other catastrophic disasters, national emergencies, political unrest, war or terrorist activities; or. •  other operational problems.. If some of our facilities are shut down, they may experience prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks or longer, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of our facilities could cause a significant loss of production and adversely affect our results of operations and negatively impact our customers and dealers. Further, a catastrophic event could result in the loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our manufacturing facilities. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any of these events individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Federal and local government spending and priorities may change in a manner that materially and adversely affects our future sales and limits our growth prospects.. Our business depends upon continued federal and local government expenditures on certain of our Commercial and Fire & Emergency products. These expenditures have not remained constant over time. Current government spending levels on programs that we support may not be sustainable as a result of changes in government leadership, policies or priorities. A significant portion of our sales are subject to risks specific to doing business with the U.S. government and municipalities, including, but not limited to:. •  budgetary constraints or fluctuations affecting government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies in particular, and changes in fiscal policies or a reduction of available funding;. •  changes in government programs or requirements;. •  realignment of funds to government priorities that we do not serve;. •  government shutdowns (such as those which occurred in 1995-1996 and in 2013) and other potential delays in government appropriations processes;. •  delays in the payment of our invoices by government authorities;. •  adoption of new laws or regulations and our ability to meet specified performance thresholds; and. •  general economic conditions.. These or other factors could cause government agencies and departments to reduce their purchases under contracts, exercise their right to terminate contracts, or not exercise options to renew contracts, any of which could cause us to lose sales. A significant decline in overall government spending or a shift in expenditures away from agencies or programs that we support could cause a material decline in our sales and harm our financial results.. Fuel shortages, or high prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales of our products.. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of most of our vehicles and we cannot assure you that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase. High fuel costs generally drive greater demand for better fuel economy and substantial increases in the price of fuel have had a. 29. Table of Contents. material adverse effect on the specialty vehicle industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. Fluctuations in fuel prices have also historically negatively impacted consumer confidence and increased customer preferences for alternative fuel vehicles, only some of which we produce.. We are exposed to, and may be adversely affected by, interruptions to our computer and information technology systems and sophisticated cyber-attacks.. We rely on our information technology systems and networks in connection with many of our business activities. Some of these networks and systems are managed by third-party service providers and are not under our direct control. Our operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, customers, dealers, suppliers, employees and other sensitive matters (including wire transfer instructions). As with most companies, we have experienced cyber-attacks, attempts to breach our systems and other similar incidents, none of which have been material. Any future cyber incidents could, however, materially disrupt operational systems; result in loss of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information or money; compromise personally identifiable information regarding customers or employees; and jeopardize the security of our facilities. A cyber incident could be caused by malicious outsiders using sophisticated methods to circumvent firewalls, encryption and other security defenses. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Information technology security threats, including security breaches, computer malware and other cyber-attacks are increasing in both frequency and sophistication and could create financial liability, subject us to legal or regulatory sanctions or damage our reputation with customers, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders. We continuously seek to maintain a robust program of information security and controls, but the impact of a material information technology event could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our operations and the industries in which we operate are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and we may face significant costs or liabilities associated with environmental, health and safety matters.. Our global operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and workers' health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, water and air discharges, noise pollution, solid and hazardous waste generation, management and disposal, remediation of releases of hazardous materials, employee health and safety, and engine fuel economy and emissions from the vehicles we manufacture. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations continue to evolve, and we may become subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, which could increase costs of compliance or require the Company to manufacture with alternative technologies and materials. We are required to obtain and maintain environmental, health and safety permits and approvals for our facilities and operations. Our failure to comply with such laws, regulations, permits and approvals could subject us to increased employee healthcare and workers' compensation costs, liabilities, fines and other penalties or compliance costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Environmental remediation laws such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\") and state analogues impose liability, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons (known as \"potentially responsible parties\" or \"PRPs\") who are considered to have contributed to the release of \"hazardous substances\" into the environment. Although we are not currently incurring material liabilities pursuant to CERCLA or state analogues, in the future we may incur such material liabilities with regard to our (or our predecessors') current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities, or off-site disposal locations. In particular, in 2012 we received a request from the United States EPA for information regarding the San Fernando Valley Area 2 Superfund Site (the \"San Fernando Site\").. The EPA has questioned whether a prior owner and operator of a facility located within the boundary of the San Fernando Site (which is regional in scale and encompasses large portions of the Los Angeles area) is a predecessor to our Company, and whether the operations of the predecessor entity may have caused releases of certain hazardous substances to soil or groundwater. At this stage, the EPA has not asserted any claims against us and has not notified us that we are a PRP at the San Fernando Site. Our ability to collect on insurance policies or remediation costs or damages in connection with any claims relating to the San Fernando Site is unclear at this time. Although we intend to vigorously defend against any such claims, in the event we are found to be a PRP at the San Fernando Site or other sites, the remediation costs and any potential damages (including Natural Resource Damage claims) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Product compliance laws and regulations impose a variety environmental requirements, including emissions and performance standards, on the vehicles we manufacture. These laws and regulations govern vehicle fuel efficiency, emissions (including greenhouse gas emissions), noise and safety, and are expected to continue to add to the cost of our products and increase the engineering and product development programs of our business. For example, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") began to enforce limits on diesel exhaust emissions from nonroad diesel engines in 1996 and stationary diesel-engine generator sets in. 30. Table of Contents. 2006. Implemented in a series of steps called Tier levels, these regulations, over time, have introduced successively more stringent limitations on nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), particulate matter (PM) and non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC). Currently, \"Tier 4\" regulations promulgated under the Clean Air Act imposed increasingly stringent motor vehicle emissions standards on our diesel exhaust emissions beginning with the 2011 model year. The EPA's Transition Program for Equipment Manufacturers (\"TPEM\") allows a transitional allotment of Tier 3 engines that are exempt from the more stringent Tier 4 regulations through 2017. Specifically, the TPEM program allows manufacturers to delay installing a certain amount of Tier 4-compliant engines as long as manufacturers comply with certain notice, recordkeeping and annual reporting requirements. More stringent emissions standards have been issued by California and certain other states as well. In addition, in August 2011, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (\"NHTSA\") issued rules on GHG emissions and fuel economy for medium and heavy duty vehicles and engines. The emissions standards establish required minimum fuel economy and GHG emissions levels for both engines and vehicles primarily through the increased use of existing technology. The rules, which apply to our engines and vehicles, initially required EPA certification for vehicles and engines to GHG emissions standards in calendar year 2014 and will be fully implemented in model year 2017. In August 2016, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (\"NHTSA\") finalized a second phase of GHG emissions reductions to be implemented over time beginning in model year 2021 through model year 2027. These standards, as well as other federal and state emissions standards applicable to the vehicles we manufacture, have and will increase costs of development for engines and vehicles and administrative costs arising from implementation of the standards. These regulatory proposals under consideration or those that are proposed in the future may set standards that are difficult to achieve or adversely affect our results of operations due to increased research, development, and warranty costs.. We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business, and uninsured judgments or a rise in insurance premiums may adversely impact our results of operations.. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to various claims and litigation. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. Some of our businesses have in the past and may in the future face claims and litigation regarding accidents involving their products, including accidents involving passenger injuries and deaths, and the increasing amount of our vehicles on the road may increase our exposure to such matters. In accordance with customary practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential claims. We may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. The levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. Further, we may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels or at all.. For product liability claims, we have a self-insured retention (\"SIR\") for product liability matters of $1.0 million. Amounts above the SIR, up to a certain dollar amount, are covered by our excess insurance policy. Currently, we maintain excess liability insurance aggregating $100.0 million with outside insurance carriers to minimize our risks related to catastrophic claims in excess of our self-insured positions for product liability and personal injury matters. Any material change in the aforementioned factors could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premium that we are required to pay for insurance to increase significantly and may negatively impact future SIR levels. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, not all of which are covered by our self-insurance.. If any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Intellectual property risks may adversely affect our business and may dilute our competitive advantage.. Our brands are important assets of our business, and we rely on proprietary intellectual property, including numerous registered trademarks, as well as licensed intellectual property for the manufacture and competitiveness of our products. We monitor and protect against activities that might infringe, dilute or otherwise harm our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property and rely on the enforceability of the patent, trademark and other laws of the United States and other countries. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization. To the extent we cannot protect our intellectual property, unauthorized use and misuse of our intellectual property could cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with our ability to effectively represent our Company to our customers, contractors, suppliers and/or licensees and increase litigation costs, which could harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 31. Table of Contents. We may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws and export controls and economic sanctions laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as having potentially more corrupt business environments. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the U.K. Bribery Act. We have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents.. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. If employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. In addition, we are subject to export controls and economic sanctions laws and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government. Changes in export control or trade sanctions laws may restrict our business practices, and may result in modifications to compliance programs. Violations of the FCPA, U.K. Bribery Act, other anti-corruption laws, export controls or economic sanctions laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our expansion plans in markets outside of the United States could entail significant risks.. Our strategies potentially include establishing a greater presence in markets outside of the United States. In addition, we are growing our use of component suppliers in these foreign markets. As we progress with this, these strategies may involve a significant investment of capital and other resources and entail various risks. These include risks attendant to obtaining necessary governmental approvals, identifying foreign agents, dealers and distributors, the construction of facilities in a timely manner and within cost estimates, the establishment of viable supply channels, the commencement of efficient manufacturing operations and, ultimately, the acceptance of the products by our current or prospective customers. We cannot be assured that our expansion plans will be implemented or, if implemented, be successful.. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in achieving their purposes.. Our policies, procedures, controls and oversight to monitor and manage our enterprise risks may not be fully effective in achieving their purpose and may leave us exposed to identified or unidentified risks. Past or future misconduct by our employees or vendors could result in our violations of law, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational harm or financial harm. The Company monitors its policies, procedures and controls; however, we cannot assure you that our policies, procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent all forms of misconduct. We review our compensation policies and practices as part of our risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies could incentivize management and other employees to subject the Company to inappropriate risk or to engage in misconduct. If such inappropriate risks or misconduct occurs, it is possible that it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or our financial condition.. AIP is party to the Shareholders Agreement (as defined below) and has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for a vote.. As of December 15, 2017, AIP owned 33,774,310 shares of our common stock, which represents 52.7% of our total outstanding shares of common stock. AIP is also party to an amended and restated shareholders agreement (the \"Shareholders Agreement\") that, among other things, imposes certain transfer restrictions on the shares held by such stockholders and requires such stockholders to vote in favor of certain nominees to our Board of Directors. For a discussion of the Shareholders Agreement, see \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions, and Director Independence.\" As long as these stockholders own or control at least a majority of our outstanding common stock, they will have the ability to exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including:. •  the election and removal of directors and the size of our Board of Directors;. •  any amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; or. •  the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets.. 32. Table of Contents. In addition, pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement, AIP has the following rights so long as it holds at least 15% of the then outstanding common stock:. •  to nominate the greater of five members of our Board of Directors or a majority of directors;. •  to designate the Chairman of our Board of Directors and one member to each of the audit committee, the compensation committee and the nominating and corporate governance committee;. •  to approve the commencement of any proceeding for the voluntary dissolution, winding up or bankruptcy of the Company or any material subsidiary;. •  to approve any non-pro rata reduction to the share capital of the Company or any material subsidiary, except as required by law;. •  to approve amendments to the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that would change the name of the Company, its jurisdiction of incorporation, the location of its principal executive offices, the purpose or purposes for which the Company is incorporated or the approval requirements as provided in the Shareholders Agreement;. •  to approve special dividends greater than $10 million;. •  to approve any merger, amalgamation or consolidation of the Company or the spinoff of a business of the Company with assets in excess of 15% of the consolidated assets or revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries;. •  the sale, conveyance, transfer or other disposition of all or more than 15% of the consolidated assets or revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries; and. •  any designation to the Board of Directors contrary to the Shareholders Agreement or the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws.. See \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence\" for more detail.. Lastly, AIP's interests as an equity holder may not be aligned in all cases with those of other equity investors, or of our lenders as creditors. In addition, AIP may have an interest in pursuing or not pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might be contrary to the wishes of other equity investors or involve risks to our lenders. Furthermore, AIP may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. AIP may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business separately from us and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.. Changes to tax laws or exposure to additional tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results.. Tax policy reform continues to be a topic of discussion in the United States. Significant changes to the U.S. corporate tax system could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we regularly undergo tax audits in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we believe that our income tax provisions and accruals are reasonable and in accordance with GAAP, and that we prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audits and any related litigation, could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of a tax audit or litigation could materially affect our operating results and cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period net income may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties and interest assessments.. Changes in customer preferences for our products or our failure to gauge those preferences could lead to reduced sales and additional costs.. Our ability to remain competitive depends heavily on our ability to provide a continuing and timely introduction of innovative product offerings. We cannot be certain that historical customer preferences for our products will remain unchanged. We believe that the introduction of new product features, designs and models will be critical to the future success of our operations as technological advancements are made and alternative fuels are developed, and it will be essential for our product lines to adapt accordingly. Managing frequent product introductions and transitions poses inherent risks and additional costs. Delays in the introduction or market acceptance of new product features, designs or models could have a material adverse effect on our business. Products may not be accepted for a number of reasons, including changes in customer preferences or our failure to properly gauge customer preferences. Further, we cannot be certain that new product introductions will not reduce sales from existing models and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that any of these new product features, designs or models will be introduced to the market in a timely manner or that they will be successful when introduced.. 33. Table of Contents. Failure to maintain the strength and value of our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, on the value and strength of our brands. Our brand names are integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, enhancing, promoting and positioning our brands, particularly in new markets where we have limited brand recognition, will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide high-quality services, warranty plans, products and resources and a consistent, high-quality customer experience. Our brands could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives, if we fail to comply with laws and regulations, if we are subject to publicized litigation or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Some of these risks may be beyond our ability to control, such as the effects of negative publicity regarding our suppliers or third party providers of services or negative publicity related to members of management. Any of these events could hurt the Company's image, resulting in reduced demand for our products and a decrease in net sales. Further, maintaining, enhancing, promoting and positioning our brands' images may require us to make substantial investments in marketing and employee training, which could adversely affect our cash flow and which may ultimately be unsuccessful. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. We were not previously required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in a manner that met the standards of publicly traded companies required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, starting with the second annual report that we file with the SEC as a public company, and generally requires in the same report a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, upon becoming a public company, we were required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Section 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. Though we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis, we are not required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the annual report required to be filed with the SEC for our fiscal year ending October 31, 2018. To comply with the requirements of being a newly public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business.. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse, in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, or we are required to restate our financial statements, we may fail to meet our public reporting obligations and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, subject to certain exceptions, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for certain stockholder litigation matters, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or stockholders.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, subject to limited exceptions, that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim against us, any director or our officers or employees arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us, any director or our officers or employees that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers, other employees or stockholders which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision that will be contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Provisions of our corporate governance documents could make an acquisition of our Company more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management or directors, even if beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our Company that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management or directors by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace current members of our management team.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for, and are relying on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. The parties to the Shareholders Agreement control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that, within one year of the date of the listing of our common stock:. •  we have a board that is composed of a majority of \"independent directors,\" as defined under the rules of such exchange;. •  we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and. •  we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.. We are utilizing these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors on our Board of Directors. In addition, our compensation committee and our nominating and corporate governance committee do not consist entirely of independent directors or be subject to annual performance evaluations. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.. An active, liquid trading market for our common stock may cease to exist, which may limit your ability to sell your shares.. Although our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol \"REVG,\" an active trading market for our shares may not be sustained. A public trading market having the desirable characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends upon the existence of willing buyers and sellers at any given time, such existence being dependent upon the individual decisions of buyers and sellers over which neither we nor any market maker has control. The failure of an active and liquid trading market to develop and continue would likely have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration.. Market volatility may affect our stock price and the value of your investment.. The market price of our common stock may change in response to fluctuations in our operating results in future periods and may also change in response to other factors, many of which are beyond our control. As a result, our share price may experience significant volatility and may not necessarily reflect the value of our expected performance. Among other factors that could affect our stock price are:. •  market conditions in the broader stock market;. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results;. •  introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors;. •  issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;. •  sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock;. 35. Table of Contents. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  legal, regulatory or political developments;. •  litigation and governmental investigations;. •  the size of our public float;. •  market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy;. •  changing economic conditions; and. •  exchange rate fluctuations.. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. As of December 15, 2017, we had 64,145,945 shares of common stock outstanding. The 25,875,000 shares of common stock that were sold publicly in the secondary offering completed in October and in our IPO may be resold in the public market at any time (other than shares of our common stock that may be held or acquired by our directors, executive officers or affiliates, as that term is defined in the Securities Act). We also registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans, which means these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. As restrictions on resale end, the market price of our stock could decline if the holders of currently restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Lastly, an entity controlled by AIP has entered into a loan agreement pursuant to which it pledged 19.5 million shares of our common stock to secure a margin loan, under which it may draw up to approximately $60 million. If the AIP-controlled entity were to default on its obligations under the loan and not timely post additional collateral, the lender would have the right to sell shares to satisfy the AIP-controlled entity's obligation. Such an event could cause our stock price to decline.. We cannot assure you that we will continue to declare dividends or have sufficient funds to pay dividends on our common stock.. Although we intend to continue to pay a quarterly dividend on shares of our common stock, to the extent that we have sufficient funds available for such purpose, the declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and we may reduce or discontinue entirely the payment of such dividends at any time. Our Board of Directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under the April 2017 ABL Facility and Term Loan Agreement. Moreover, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the financial results and cash flow of our operating subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of cash to us in the form of dividends or otherwise, which may further restrict our ability to pay dividends as a result of the laws of their jurisdiction of organization, agreements of our subsidiaries or covenants under any existing and future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. Furthermore, Delaware law requires that our Board of Directors determine that we have adequate surplus prior to the declaration of dividends. While we do not currently believe that these restrictions will impair our ability to pay regular quarterly cash dividends, there can be no assurance that we will not need to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our common stock in the future. Therefore, any return on investment in our common stock may be solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur. See \"Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Dividend Policy\" for more detail.. 36. Table of Contents. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our shares or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our share price and trading volume could decline. In addition, if securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our shares has been and will continue to be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets and demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or make sell recommendations, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our share price could decline.. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management has been required to divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to public company requirements.. As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. For example, we are required to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Compliance with these requirements has increased our legal and financial compliance costs and is making some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, the Exchange Act requires us, among other things, to file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. In addition, our management and other personnel need to divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to these public company requirements. In particular, we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In that regard, we currently have no internal audit function, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. We also expect that operating as a public company will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our Board of Directors, our Board committees or as executive officers."
