[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some of the factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We have a history of losses and may incur losses in the future.. We have experienced net losses and negative cash flow from operations during 2017, 2016 and 2015, and we currently have an accumulated deficit. In order for us to attain profitability and growth, we will need to successfully execute our production, marketing and sales plans for our product lines, and improve our distribution and supply chain performance. We may fail to achieve profitability in the future, and our business may not be as successful as we envision. Continuing losses could exhaust our capital resources and force us to scale back, suspend or discontinue our operations. Our operating expenses may continue to increase as we spend resources on growing our business, and if our revenue does not correspondingly increase, our operating results and financial condition will suffer.. We may be unable to raise additional capital.. We have funded our operations primarily through the issuance of common stock and bank financing. In addition, we have received financing primarily from our affiliate RVL 1, LLC (\"RVL\") and Aston Capital, LLC (\"Aston\"), entities affiliated with our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. The actual amount of funds that we will need to meet our operating needs will be determined by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the timing and volume of sales transactions, the success of our marketing strategy, market acceptance of our products, the success of our manufacturing and research and product development efforts (including any unanticipated delays), the costs associated with obtaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights, regulatory changes, competition, technological developments in the market, evolving industry standards and the amount of working capital investments we are required to make. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to scale back, suspend or discontinue operations.. The future issuance of additional shares of common stock and/or preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders.. We are authorized to issue 35,000,000 shares of common stock, of which 21,352,383 shares were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2017. To the extent that common shares are available for issuance, subject to compliance with applicable stock exchange listing rules, our board of directors has the ability to issue additional shares of common stock in the future for such consideration as the board of directors may consider sufficient. The issuance of any additional securities could, among other things, result in substantial dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders at the time of issuance, result in substantial dilution of our earnings per share and adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock.. We are authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, none of which were issued or outstanding at December 31, 2017. Our board of directors may designate the rights and preferences of preferred stock without a vote by the stockholders. A new series of preferred stockholders could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock insofar as such series:. <U+0095>   provides for voting, redemption and conversion rights to the detriment of the holders of common stock;. <U+0095>   provides for dividends that must be paid prior to any distributions on our common stock;. <U+0095>   receives preferences over the holders of common stock or surplus funds in the event of our dissolution or liquidation; or. <U+0095>   has the potential to delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company, and discourage bids for our common stock.. The future trading market for our common stock may not be active on a consistent basis and the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations.. Trading in our common stock has been limited and, at times, volatile since our shares were listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. The trading volume of our common stock in the future depends in part on our ability to increase our revenue and reduce or eliminate our operating losses. If we are unable to achieve these goals, the trading market for our common stock may be negatively affected, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop or, if developed, be sustained, and the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may also fluctuate as a result of: (i) variations in our operating results; (ii) announcements by us, our competitors or others of significant business developments; (iii) changes in client relationships; (iv) acquisitions or expansion plans; or (v) analysts' earnings estimates, ratings and research reports.. Our loan agreement contains financial covenants that may limit our operating and strategic flexibility.. Our loan and security agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (\"Bank of America\"), as amended (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\"), contains financial covenants and other restrictions that limit our ability to engage in certain types of transactions. For example, these restrictions require that we maintain a fixed charge ratio tied to our ability to borrow under the terms of the Revolving Credit Facility, and generally require us to obtain lender consents for acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with all covenants in the future or that Bank of America will agree to modify the Revolving Credit Facility, should that become necessary.. 11. Table of Contents. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions. Failure to comply with any of these covenants and restrictions would result in an event of default under the Revolving Credit Facility. If we do not cure an event of default or obtain necessary waivers within the required time periods, Bank of America would be permitted to accelerate the maturity of the debt under the Revolving Credit Facility, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt, and terminate any further commitments to lend to us. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our other obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by the Revolving Credit Facility may significantly impair our ability to obtain other debt or equity financing.. There can be no assurance that any waivers we request will be received on a timely basis, if at all, or that any waivers obtained will extend for a sufficient period of time to avoid an acceleration event, an event of default, or other restrictions on our business. The failure to obtain any necessary waivers could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, and financial condition.. Our net operating loss carryforwards provide a future benefit only if we are profitable and may be subject to limitation based upon ownership changes.. We have significant federal net operating loss carryforwards and state net operating loss carryforwards. While our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are fully reserved for, if we are unable to return to and maintain profitability, we may not be able to fully utilize these tax benefits. Furthermore, generally a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company's stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company's ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such change. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards attributable to the period prior to such ownership change to offset taxable income will be subject to limitations in a particular year, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us.. Our growth strategy may include strategic acquisitions. We have made strategic acquisitions in the past and may do so in the future, and if the acquired companies do not perform as expected, this could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and existing business.. We may continue to expand our business through strategic acquisitions. The success of any acquisition will depend on, among other things:. <U+0095>   the availability of suitable candidates;. <U+0095>   competition from other companies for the purchase of available candidates;. <U+0095>   our ability to value those candidates accurately and negotiate favorable terms for those acquisitions;. <U+0095>   the availability of funds to finance acquisitions and obtaining any consents necessary under our credit facility;. <U+0095>   the ability to establish new informational, operational and financial systems to meet the needs of our business;. <U+0095>   the ability to achieve anticipated synergies, including with respect to complementary products or services; and. <U+0095>   the availability of management resources to oversee the integration and operation of the acquired businesses.. Integration of acquired businesses may be difficult to achieve and will consume significant financial and managerial resources which may adversely affect operations.. Part of our strategy to increase revenue and market share is to grow through strategic acquisitions in order to complement and expand our business. Acquisitions involve risks related to the integration and management of technology, operations and personnel of separate companies. The integration of these businesses will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We may encounter difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating the operations, including:. <U+0095>   exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies or its assets;. <U+0095>   higher than anticipated acquisition costs and expenses;. <U+0095>   potential conflicts between business cultures;. <U+0095>   adverse changes in business focus perceived by third-party constituencies;. <U+0095>   disruption of our ongoing business;. <U+0095>   potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships;. <U+0095>   potential constraints of management resources;. <U+0095>   inability to implement uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;. <U+0095>   failure to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology;. <U+0095>   failure to realize the potential of acquired technology, complete product development, or properly obtain or secure appropriate protection of intellectual property rights; and. <U+0095>   loss of key employees and/or the diversion of management's attention from other ongoing business concerns.. 12. Table of Contents. In addition, the geographic distance between the companies and their respective offices and operations increases the risk that the integration will not be completed successfully or in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may not successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of the companies.. Our acquisitions could result in future impairment charges and other charges which could adversely affect our results of operations.. As a result of certain prior acquisitions, and in consideration of future acquisitions, goodwill and other intangible assets have been and will be recorded. At the purchase date, the recorded amounts for goodwill and other intangible assets represent fair values estimated at a point in time and are based on valuations that require significant estimates and assumptions about future events, which are derived from information obtained from the management of the acquired businesses and our business plans for the acquired businesses or intellectual property. If estimates and assumptions used to initially record goodwill and intangible assets do not materialize, ongoing reviews of the carrying amounts of such goodwill and intangible assets may result in impairments which will require us to record a noncash charge in the period in which such an impairment is identified. Such charge could have a severe negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is cyclical and seasonal, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our business exhibits some seasonality, with net sales being affected by the impact of weather and seasonal demand on construction and installation programs, particularly during the winter months. Our revenues in the first half of the year may be affected by the impact of weather on construction and installation programs, as well as the annual budget cycles of major customers. The cyclical and seasonal nature of our business could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are not able to compete effectively against companies with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized.. The lighting industry is highly competitive. In the high performance lighting markets in which we sell our LED lighting solutions, our products compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by larger and better-established lighting operators. Management expects competition to intensify in the future. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources. Our competitors may acquire or be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with, larger, well established and well-financed competitors. Therefore, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and devote substantially more resources to product development. It is difficult to effectively compete with companies that have these resources so we cannot assure that we will ever become a significant company in the industry.. In the replacement lamp market where we sell our LED products, we expect to encounter competition from a number of companies. Our competitors are expected to include the large, established companies in the general lighting industry, such as GE Lighting, Osram Sylvania and Royal Philips Lighting. We believe each of these competitors has undertaken initiatives to develop white light LED technology. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of LED lighting products than we do. We may also face increased competition from traditional lighting fixture companies, such as Acuity Brands, Cree, Cooper Lighting, Hubbell Lighting, Lithonia Lighting and Royal Philips Lighting. In each of our markets, we also anticipate the possibility that LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us by introducing more complete systems that might not infringe on our patents. Our competitors' lighting technologies and products may be more readily accepted by customers than our products. The relatively low barriers to entry into the lighting industry and the limited proprietary nature of many lighting products also permit new competitors to enter the industry easily. Increased competition may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value in our brands.. If our advanced lighting products do not gain wider market acceptance, prospects for our growth and profitability may be limited.. We face competition from both traditional lighting technologies, such as incandescent, florescent and neon lighting, and from competitors engaged in providing LED lighting products. Traditional lighting technologies have the advantage of a long history of market acceptance and familiarity as compared to our LED lighting solutions. Potential customers for our LED products may be reluctant to adopt these as alternatives to traditional lighting technologies because of their higher initial cost to achieve comparable light output, although our LED lighting products tend to be more energy efficient and require less maintenance.. Our success will depend upon both the increased acceptance of our LED products as an alternative to traditional lighting technologies and the development of higher lumen producing products to meet traditional lighting applications. Obstacles to adoption of LED lighting in the general lighting market include the high initial cost of high brightness white LEDs and the need for further advances in brightness, color characteristics, efficiency and the predicted life of the LEDs before they require replacement. Our future results are dependent upon sales growth in the military, municipal, commercial, industrial, warehouse, education, hospitality, retail, healthcare, multi-family and signage-media-accent markets. As part of our sales and marketing strategy, we actively seek to educate our target markets as to the advantages of our LED lighting solutions. We believe that achievement of this objective is critical to our future success. Our lighting. 13. Table of Contents. products may not continue to gain market share within the overall lighting market or competitors may introduce better lighting technologies, displacing our LED and other lighting products in the market. If acceptance of our lighting products in general does not continue to grow, then opportunities to increase our revenue and operate profitably may be limited.. The reduction or elimination of investments in, or incentives to adopt, LED lighting or the elimination of, or changes in, policies, incentives or rebates in certain states or countries that encourage the use of LEDs over some traditional lighting technologies could cause the growth in demand for our products to slow, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, profits and margins.. Reductions in (including as a result of any budgetary constraints), or the elimination of, government investment and favorable energy policies designed to accelerate the adoption of LED lighting could result in decreased demand for our products and decrease our revenues, profits and margins. Further, if our products fail to qualify for any financial incentives or rebates provided by governmental agencies or utilities for which our competitors' products qualify, such programs may diminish or eliminate our ability to compete by offering products at lower prices than our competitors.. We believe that certification and compliance issues are critical to adoption of our lighting systems, and failure to obtain such certification or compliance would harm our business.. We are required to comply with certain legal requirements governing the materials in our products. Although we are not aware of any efforts to amend any existing legal requirements or implement new legal requirements in a manner with which we cannot comply, our revenue might be materially harmed if such an amendment or implementation were to occur.. We cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain any required certifications for our new products or that, if certification standards are amended, we will be able to maintain any such certifications for our existing products, especially since existing codes and standards were not created with our lighting products in mind. Moreover, although we are not aware of any effort to amend any existing certification standard or implement a new certification standard in a manner that would render us unable to maintain certification for our existing products or obtain certification for new products, our revenue might be materially harmed if such an amendment or implementation were to occur.. Customers may be unable to obtain financing to make purchases from us.. Some of our customers require financing in order to purchase our products. The potential inability of these customers to access the capital needed to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. If our customers become insolvent due to market and economic conditions or otherwise, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Sudden or unexpected changes in a customer's creditworthiness could result in accounts receivable write-offs.. Historically, we have taken a conservative approach when extending credit to our customers. Customers are granted an appropriate credit limit based upon the due diligence performed on the customer. At any given time, we can have credit exposure with some of our customers.. We rely on third-party manufacturers for the manufacture and development of certain of our products and product components.. We depend on third-party suppliers for substantially all of our components and products. We currently depend on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products at plants in the U.S. and China; however, we believe that alternative sources of supply are readily available for most products and components. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain additional risks, including lack of direct control over production capacity, delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs. Our business prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we were to experience problems with changes in government export/import regulations, quality, quantity, credit or liquidity issues, or disruptions or delays in the manufacturing process or delivery of products and components or raw materials used to make such products or components.. We depend on distributors and independent sales representatives for a portion of our revenue and sales, and the failure to successfully manage our relationships with these third-parties, or the termination of these relationships, could cause our revenue to decline and harm our business.. We intend to continue to seek strategic relationships to distribute, license and sell certain products. We intend to maximize organic growth within our market. A portion of our revenue comes from sales to distributors including systems integrators, distributors and resellers. We may not be able to negotiate acceptable relationships in the future and cannot predict whether current or future relationships will be successful.. Some of these relationships have not been formalized in a detailed contract, and may be subject to termination at any time. The agreements that are formalized in a contract are generally short-term, not exclusive, and can be cancelled by these sales channels without significant financial consequence. In addition, these parties provide technical sales support to end-users. We cannot control how these sales channels perform and cannot be certain that end-users will be satisfied by their performance. If these distributors and agents significantly change their terms with us, or change their historical pattern of ordering products from us, there could be a significant impact on our revenue and profits.. 14. Table of Contents. Claims by others that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights could prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products or require us to pay royalties or incur substantial costs from litigation or development of non-infringing technology.. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We may receive notices that claim we have infringed upon the intellectual property of others. Even if these claims are not valid, they could subject us to significant costs. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert our attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. We have engaged in litigation and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation may also be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity by others. A successful claim of intellectual property infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology or develop or license technology with comparable functionality could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may lose some of our competitive advantage.. Protection of our proprietary intellectual property is important to our business. Our ability to compete and the ability of our business to grow could suffer if our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected. Although we expect that several of our patent applications will issue, we cannot be certain that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending patent applications or with respect to any patent applications filed by us in the future, nor can we be sure that any patents that may be granted to us in the future will be commercially useful in protecting our technology. In addition, despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.. Our products could contain defects or they may be installed or operated incorrectly, which could reduce sales of those products or result in claims against us.. Despite testing by us, errors have been found and may be found in the future in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of revenue, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects could cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with our customers. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our lighting products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our lighting products could result in personal injury or financial or other damages to end-users or could damage market acceptance of our products. Our customers and end-users could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend.. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business and product development efforts could be harmed.. To a significant extent, our success will depend on our senior management team, including the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Robert V. LaPenta, and other members of the executive team. The loss of any of these individuals could severely harm the business. Our success also depends on our continued ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, manufacturing, administrative and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In particular, we may encounter difficulties in recruiting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified technical personnel, which could harm our ability to develop new products and adversely impact our relationships with existing and future customers. The inability to attract and retain necessary technical, managerial, manufacturing, administrative and sales and marketing personnel could harm our ability to obtain new customers and develop new products and could adversely affect our business and operating results.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us and our independent registered public accounting firm to annually evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to maintain an effective system of internal controls may not be successful, and we may not be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurs, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements in the future. Failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discovers a material weakness in our internal controls in the future, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements.. 15. Table of Contents. Our results of operations and financial condition could be seriously impacted by security breaches, including cybersecurity incidents.. Failure to effectively prevent, detect and recover from security breaches, including attacks on information technology and infrastructure by hackers; viruses; breaches due to employee error or actions; or other disruptions could result in misuse of our assets, business disruptions, loss of property including trade secrets and confidential business information, legal claims or proceedings, reporting errors, processing inefficiencies, negative media attention, loss of sales and interference with regulatory compliance. We have determined that such attacks could result in unauthorized parties gaining access to at least certain confidential business information. However, to date, we have not experienced any material financial impact, changes in the competitive environment or business operations that we attribute to these attacks. Although management does not believe that we have experienced any material losses to date related to security breaches, including cybersecurity incidents, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. We actively manage the risks within our control that could lead to business disruptions and security breaches. As these threats continue to evolve, particularly around cybersecurity, we may be required to expend significant resources to enhance our control environment, processes, practices and other protective measures. Despite these efforts, such events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations."
