[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information included in this Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. If any of these risks occur, the value of our common stock could decline.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Needs. We currently have no product revenues, have incurred negative cash flows from operations since inception and will need to raise additional capital to operate our business.. To date, we have generated no product revenues and have incurred negative cash flow from operations. Until we receive approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for our drug candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues. We expect to continue to incur significant development and other expenses related to our ongoing operations.  Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from the net proceeds of equity or debt offerings, cash on hand, licensing fees and grants, if any.  If we are not able to raise sufficient funds, we will have to reduce our research and development activities. We will first reduce research and development activities associated with our pre-clinical compounds. To the extent necessary, we will then reduce our research and development activities related to some or all of our clinical stage product candidates.. Unforeseen events, difficulties, complications and delays may occur that could cause us to utilize our existing capital at a faster rate than projected, including the progress of our research and development efforts, the cost and timing of regulatory approvals and the costs of protecting our intellectual property rights. We may seek additional financing to implement and fund other drug candidate development, clinical trial and research and development efforts, including clinical trials for other new drug candidates, as well as other research and development projects.. We will need additional financing to continue to develop our drug candidates, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to complete our planned pre-clinical and clinical trials or obtain approval of our drug candidates from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we may be forced to reduce or discontinue product development or product licensing, reduce or forego sales and marketing efforts and forego attractive business opportunities in order to improve our liquidity to enable us to continue operations. Any additional sources of financing will likely involve the sale of our equity securities or securities convertible into our equity securities, which may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders.. We are not currently profitable and may never become profitable.. To date, we have generated no product revenues and have incurred negative cash flow from operations. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $140,318,712 and $115,024,209, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we had net losses of $25,294,503, $9,307,345, and $14,384,556, respectively. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our drug candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future, based on the following considerations:. 24. Table of Contents.   continued pre-clinical development and clinical trials for our current and new drug candidates;.   finding and maintaining suitable partnerships to help us research, develop and commercialize drug candidates;.   efforts to seek regulatory approvals for our drug candidates;.   implementing additional internal systems and infrastructure;.   in-licensing additional technologies to develop; and.   hiring additional personnel or entering into relationships with third parties to perform functions that we are unable to perform on our own.. We also expect to continue to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operations and capital expenditures. Until we have the capacity to generate revenues, we are relying upon outside funding resources to fund our cash flow requirements. If these resources are depleted or unavailable, we may be unable to continue to expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. We have a limited operating history, and we have not demonstrated an ability to commercialize drug candidates.. We are a clinical-stage company with a limited number of drug candidates. We currently do not have any products that have gained regulatory approval, and we have not demonstrated an ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any of our drug candidates. The successful commercialization of our drug candidates will require us to first perform a variety of functions, including:.   conducting pre-clinical and clinical trials;.   participating in regulatory approval processes;.   formulating and manufacturing products; and.   conducting sales and marketing activities.. To date, our operations have been limited to organizing and staffing the Company, acquiring, developing and securing our proprietary technology, and undertaking drug candidate research and development, including pre-clinical trials and clinical trials of our principal drug candidates. These operations provide a limited basis for assessing our ability to commercialize drug candidates.. If we fail to comply with the continued listing standards of NYSE American, our common stock could be delisted. If it is delisted, our common stock and the liquidity of our common stock would be impacted.. 25. Table of Contents. Our common stock is listed on NYSE American, and the continued listing of our common stock on NYSE American is subject to our compliance with a number of listing standards. For example, Section 1003(f)(v) of the NYSE American Company Guide provides that a company's common stock may be delisted from NYSE American if it sells for a substantial period of time at a low price per share and the company fails to effect a reverse stock split or otherwise demonstrate sustained price improvement within a reasonable time after being notified that NYSE American deems such action to be appropriate under all the circumstances. Our common stock has previously traded at prices at which we expected that NYSE American could have delivered such a notice if the price did not increase. While our stock price thereafter increased, and while on May 5, 2017, we effected a one-for-ten reverse stock split of the outstanding shares of our common stock, there is no assurance that the market price of our common stock will remain at the level required to remain in compliance with NYSE American listing standards or that we will otherwise remain in compliance with NYSE American listing standards. Among other things, the NYSE American listing standards also have applicable provisions related to stockholders' equity, disposal of assets and reduction of operations, and compliance with SEC and NYSE American regulations.. Delisting from NYSE American would adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock.  Delisting also could have other negative results, including the potential loss of employee confidence, the loss of institutional investors or interest in business development opportunities.  Moreover, we committed in connection with the sale of securities to use commercially reasonably efforts to maintain the listing of our common stock during such time that certain warrants are outstanding.. Risks Related to Our Business. Several of our drug candidates are in clinical trials, which are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement.. Our drug candidates are in various stages of development and require extensive clinical testing. Such testing is expensive and time-consuming and requires specialized knowledge and expertise.  RX-3117 entered a Phase 2a clinical trials in March 2016, September 2016, and November 2017 and RX-5902 entered a Phase 2a clinical trial in February 2017.. Human clinical trials are expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous regulatory requirements. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming, and the outcome is not certain; the results of pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. We estimate that clinical trials of our current drug candidates will take multiple years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of a clinical trial, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed or precluded by a number of factors, including:.   delay or failure in reaching agreement with the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority on the design of a given trial, or in obtaining authorization to commence a trial;.   delay or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites;.   delay or failure in obtaining approval of an IRB to conduct a clinical trial at a given site;.   withdrawal of clinical trial sites from our clinical trials, including as a result of changing standards of care or the ineligibility of a site to participate;.   delay or failure in recruiting and enrolling study subjects;.   delay or failure in having subjects complete a clinical trial or return for post-treatment follow up;. 26. Table of Contents.   clinical sites or investigators deviating from trial protocol, failing to conduct the trial in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, or dropping out of a trial;.   inability to identify and maintain a sufficient number of trial sites;.   failure of third-party clinical trial managers to meet their contractual obligations or deadlines;.   the need to modify a study protocol;.   unforeseen safety issues;.   emergence of dosing issues;.   lack of effectiveness during clinical trials;.   change in the standard of care of the indication being studied;.   reliance on third-party suppliers for the clinical trial supply of drug candidates;.   inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment;.   lack of sufficient funding to finance the clinical trials; and.   changes in governmental regulations or administrative action.. We, the FDA or an IRB may suspend a clinical trial at any time if it appears that we are exposing participants to unacceptable health risks or if the FDA finds deficiencies in our IND applications or the conduct of these trials. Additionally, we may have difficulty enrolling patients in our clinical trials.  If we experience such difficulties, we may not be able to complete a clinical trial or we may experience significant delays in completing a clinical trial.. If the results of our clinical trials fail to support the approval of any of our drug candidates, the completion of development of that candidate may be significantly delayed, or we may be forced to abandon development altogether, which will significantly impair our ability to generate product revenues.. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that clinical results will support approval of our drug candidates. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and pre-clinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that one or more of our drug candidates are safe and effective for indicated uses. As a result, we may have to conduct additional clinical trials or may decide to abandon a drug candidate, in which case we may never recognize any revenue related to such candidate. Standard of care treatments may change, which may require additional clinical trials. Repeating clinical trials or conducting additional clinical trials will increase our development costs and delay the filing of an NDA and, ultimately, delay our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and generate product revenues.. We may not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize our drug candidates, and we cannot guarantee how long it will take the FDA or other comparable regulatory agencies to review applications for our drug candidates.. 27. Table of Contents. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our drug candidates in the United States and approvals from the comparable regulatory authorities to commercialize our drug candidates in foreign jurisdictions.. The time it takes to obtain approval, either in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, is unpredictable, but typically takes many years, depending upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidate. Obtaining approval requires substantial resources and is subject to regulatory authorities' substantial discretion.  In addition, approval policies, regulations or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate's development and may vary among jurisdictions. We cannot guarantee that any of our drug candidates will ultimately be approved by the FDA or any other regulatory authority, or the length of time obtaining approval will take.  One of our drug candidates, RX-0201, is an ASO compound. To date, the FDA has approved relatively few ASO compounds.  In addition, RX-0201 is in the drug class known as Akt-1 inhibitors that to date have not been approved by the FDA, and we have not submitted an NDA for any Akt-1 inhibitor.. Our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval from the FDA or a comparable foreign authority for a variety of reasons, including:.   disagreement with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;.   failure to demonstrate to the authority's satisfaction that the product candidate is safe and effective for the proposed indication;.   failure of clinical trial results to meet the level of statistical significance required for approval;.   failure to demonstrate that the product's benefits outweigh its risks;.   disagreement with our interpretation of pre-clinical or clinical data; and.   inadequacies in the manufacturing facilities or processes of third-party manufacturers.. The FDA or a comparable foreign authority may require us to conduct additional pre-clinical and clinical testing, which may delay or prevent approval and our commercialization plans or cause us to abandon the development program.  Further, any approval we receive may be for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may not include labeling claims necessary for successful commercialization of the product candidate, or may be contingent upon our conducting costly post-marketing clinical trials.  Any of these scenarios could materially harm the commercial prospects of a product candidate.. Even if our product candidates obtain approval, they may face future development and regulatory difficulties that can negatively affect commercial prospects.. Even if we obtain approval for a product candidate, it would be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements and restrictions of the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities regarding manufacturing, quality control, further development, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, import, export, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and reporting.  Failure by us or any of the third parties on which we rely to meet those requirements can lead to enforcement action, among other consequences, that could significantly impair our ability to successfully commercialize a given product.  If the FDA or a comparable regulatory authority becomes aware of new safety information, it can impose additional restrictions on how the product is marketed or may seek to withdraw marketing approval altogether.. 28. Table of Contents. There is no assurance that any of our product candidates that has received or will receive orphan drug designation will subsequently obtain orphan drug exclusivity, or that any such exclusivity will provide the desired benefit.. Although we have obtained orphan drug designation for several uses of RX-0201 and one use of RX-3117 and in the future may obtain additional orphan drug designation for these or other product candidates, we are not assured of being awarded orphan drug exclusivity or realizing the benefits of such exclusivity, even if any of these products is approved for its orphan-designated use.  If another company also holding orphan drug designation for a product containing the same active moiety intended for the same rare disease or condition receives approval before our orphan-designated product, approval of our product could be precluded for seven years because of that product's orphan drug exclusivity, unless we could demonstrate our product to be clinically superior to the earlier-approved product.  Similarly, even if our orphan designated drug were approved first and awarded seven-year orphan drug exclusivity, it would not block approval of the other product if that product were shown to be clinically superior, or if we fail to assure a sufficient quantity of our orphan drug.  Additionally, because orphan drug exclusivity is product- and indication-specific, it does not prevent approval of another drug for the same orphan indication or the same drug for a different use.. If physicians and patients do not accept and use our drugs, our ability to generate revenue from sales of our products will be materially impaired.. Even if the FDA approves our drug candidates, physicians and patients may not accept and use them. Future acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors including, but not limited to:.   awareness of a drug's availability and benefits;.   perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our drugs;.   pharmacological benefit and cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products;.   availability of reimbursement for our products from government or other third-party payors;.   effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any; and.   the price at which we sell our products.. Because we expect sales of our current drug candidates, if approved, to generate substantially all of our product revenues for the foreseeable future, the failure of any of these drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing.. Even if we are able to commercialize any of our product candidates, these products may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which could harm our business.. 29. Table of Contents. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, which could negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that particular country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval.. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available in a timely manner from government third-party payors, including governmental healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, commercial health insurers and managed care organizations. Government authorities and other third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels. Third-party payors may limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which may not include all of the FDA-approved products for a particular indication.  The process for determining whether a payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved.. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment.  Government healthcare programs and other third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy, and have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available promptly or at all for any product that we commercialize and, if reimbursement is available, what the level of reimbursement will be. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases. Limited coverage may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. If coverage and reimbursement are not available or reimbursement is available only to limited levels, we may not successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.. Payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as ASP, AMP and actual acquisition cost.  The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates.  CMS surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information in the form of NADAC files to provide state Medicaid agencies with a basis of comparison for their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates.  It may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors to cover our products for which we receive regulatory approval.. If we successfully commercialize any of our products, we may participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program.  Participation is required for federal funds to be available for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B.  Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we would be required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Part B of the Medicare program.. 30. Table of Contents. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B.  The 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B \"ceiling price\" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs.  These 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients.. In addition, in order to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, a manufacturer also must participate in the FSS pricing program, established by Section 603 of the VHCA.  Under this program, the manufacturer is obligated to make its covered drugs available for procurement on an FSS contract and charge a price to the Big Four agencies that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price.  Moreover, pursuant to DHA regulations, manufacturers must provide rebates on utilization of their covered drugs that are dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries by TRICARE network retail pharmacies.  The formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and is based on the difference between the annual Non-FAMP and the FCP in effect on the dispense date (these price points are required to be calculated by us under the VHCA). The requirements under the 340B, FSS, and TRICARE programs could reduce the revenue we may generate from any products that are commercialized in the future and could adversely affect our business and operating results.. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that a drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may only be temporary. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States.  Limited coverage may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.  Third-party payors also may seek additional clinical evidence, including expensive pharmacoeconomic studies beyond the data required to obtain marketing approval, demonstrating clinical benefits and value in specific patient populations, before covering our products for those patients.  If reimbursement is available only for limited indications, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.  Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. Changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, including those based on recently enacted and future legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy, may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain.. The United States and many foreign jurisdictions have enacted or proposed legislative and regulatory changes affecting the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability to profitably sell any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. The United States government, state legislatures and foreign governments also have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid healthcare costs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs.. 31. Table of Contents. In recent years, Congress has considered reductions in Medicare reimbursement levels for drugs administered by physicians. CMS also has authority to revise reimbursement rates and to implement coverage restrictions for some drugs. Cost reduction initiatives and changes in coverage implemented through legislation or regulation could decrease utilization of and reimbursement for any approved products, which in turn would affect the price we can receive for those products. While Medicare regulations apply only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from federal legislation or regulation may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors.. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the \"Affordable Care Act\").  This law substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry.  The Affordable Care Act is intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against healthcare fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, and impose additional health policy reforms. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act expanded manufacturers' rebate liability under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program by increasing the minimum Medicaid rebate for both branded and generic drugs, expanded the 340B program, and revised the definition of AMP. The legislation also extended Medicaid drug rebates, previously due only on fee-for-service Medicaid utilization, to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well and created an alternative rebate formula for certain new formulations of certain existing products that is intended to increase the amount of rebates due on those drugs.  On February 1, 2016, CMS issued final regulations to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program under the Affordable Care Act.  These regulations became effective on April 1, 2016.. Moreover, certain legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the Affordable Care Act have occurred in the 115th United States Congress and under the Trump Administration. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted on December 22, 2017, eliminated the shared responsibility payment for individuals who fail to maintain minimum essential coverage under section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, commonly referred to as the individual mandate, beginning in 2019. Additional legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the Affordable Care Act remain possible. Any such changes could decrease the number of individuals with health coverage. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as currently enacted or as it may be amended in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates, if approved.. The Affordable Care Act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government.  Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee of $4.1 billion in 2018, based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law.  Furthermore, the new law requires manufacturers to provide a 50% discount off the negotiated price of prescriptions filled by beneficiaries in the Medicare Part D coverage gap, referred to as the \"donut hole.\". The Affordable Care Act also expanded the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing discount program.  The 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B \"ceiling price\" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs.  The Affordable Care Act expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act exempts \"orphan drugs\" - those designated under section 526 of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act - from the ceiling price requirements for these newly-eligible entities.  Because the 340B ceiling price is determined based on AMP and Medicaid drug rebate data, the revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition described above could cause the required 340B discounts to increase.. 32. Table of Contents. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted.  For example, recent legislative enactments have resulted in Medicare payments being subject to a two percent reduction, referred to as sequestration, until 2027. Continuation of sequestration or enactment of other reductions in Medicare reimbursement for drugs could affect our ability to achieve a profit on any candidate products that are approved for marketing.. We expect that the Affordable Care Act, as well as other healthcare reform measures that have and may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product and could seriously harm our future revenues. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products.. If we are able to successfully commercialize any of our products and if we participate in the Medicaid drug rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, failure to comply with reporting and payment obligations under these programs could result in additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and other governmental pricing programs require participating manufacturers to report pricing data to the government.  Pricing calculations vary among products and programs and include average manufacturer price and best price for the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, average sales price for certain categories of drugs that are paid under Part B of the Medicare program, and FCP and non-FAMP for the FSS pricing program.  If we successfully commercialize any of our products and participate in such governmental pricing programs, we will be liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data.  That liability could be significant.  For example, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price, average sales price, best price, or Non-FAMP information to the government, we may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $181,071 per item of false information.  If we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of average sales price, the statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $13,066 for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied.  Our failure to submit monthly/quarterly average manufacturer price, average sales price, and best price, and quarterly/annual Non-FAMP data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $18,107 per day for each day the information is late beyond the due date.  Such failure also could be grounds for other sanctions, such as termination from the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program.. 33. Table of Contents. If we fail to comply with data protection laws and regulations, we could be subject to government enforcement actions (which could include civil or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity, which could negatively affect our operating results and business.. We are subject to data protection laws and regulations (i.e., laws and regulations that address privacy and data security). In the U.S., numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state data breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws (e.g., Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act), govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of health-related and other personal information. Failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions and create liability for us (which could include civil and/or criminal penalties), private litigation and/or adverse publicity that could negatively affect our operating results and business. In addition, we may obtain health information from third parties (e.g., healthcare providers who prescribe our products) that are subject to privacy and security requirements under HIPAA. Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA - other than potentially with respect to providing certain employee benefits - we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. HIPAA generally requires that healthcare providers and other covered entities obtain written authorizations from patients prior to disclosing protected health information of the patient (unless an exception to the authorization requirement applies). If authorization is required and the patient fails to execute an authorization or the authorization fails to contain all required provisions, then we may not be allowed access to and use of the patient's information and our research efforts could be impaired or delayed. Furthermore, use of protected health information that is provided to us pursuant to a valid patient authorization is subject to the limits set forth in the authorization (e.g., for use in research and in submissions to regulatory authorities for product approvals). In addition, HIPAA does not replace federal, state, international or other laws that may grant individuals even greater privacy protections.. Our relationships with customers and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, transparency and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations include the following:.   the federal Anti-Kickback Law prohibits persons from, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, the referral of an individual for the furnishing or arranging for the furnishing, or the purchase, lease or order, or arranging for or recommending purchase, lease or order, any good or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid;.   the federal civil False Claims Act imposes penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement material to an obligation to pay money to the government or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government;.   HIPAA imposes criminal liability for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a health care benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a health care offense, or knowingly and willfully making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. 34. Table of Contents.   HIPAA and its implementing regulations also impose obligations on certain covered entity health care providers, health plans and health care clearinghouses as well as their business associates that perform certain services involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;.   the federal Open Payments program, created under Section 6002 of the Affordable Care Act and its implementing regulations, requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the CMS information related to \"payments or other transfers of value\" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations to report annually CMS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members; and.   analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers; state and foreign laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to certain healthcare providers; state and foreign laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state and foreign laws that govern the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other healthcare providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, that person or entity may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.  For a fuller discussion of the applicable anti-kickback fraud and abuse, transparency and other healthcare laws and regulations applicable to our business, see Item 1, \"Description of Business  -  Government Regulation.\". Developments by competitors may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive.. We compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies as well as academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as more experience in:. 35. Table of Contents.   developing drugs;.   undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials;.   obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs;.   formulating and manufacturing drugs; and.   launching, marketing and selling drugs.. Large pharmaceutical companies currently sell both generic and proprietary compounds for the treatment of cancer. In addition, companies developing oncology therapies represent substantial competition. Many of these organizations have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, history in obtaining regulatory approvals and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to attract qualified personnel, parties for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to, obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates, or developing products that are more effective and/or safer than ours, any of which could render our product candidates less competitive prior to recovery by us of expenses incurred with respect to their development and could lead us to alter our business plans or development strategies. For example, in response to the changing treatment landscape for renal cell carcinoma (\"RCC\") patients over the past two years with the approval of new therapies by the FDA, in February 2018, we announced plans to discontinue the internally funded programs of RX-0201 and ceased enrolling patients in a Phase 2a proof-of-concept clinical trial of RX-0201 in patients with metastatic RCC.. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business may be harmed.. In addition to our own internally developed drug candidates, we are actively seeking opportunities to in-license compounds in oncology and other therapeutic areas that are strategic additions to our product pipeline. Such additional drug candidates could significantly increase our capital requirements and place further strain on our resources, including on the time of our existing personnel, which may delay or otherwise adversely affect the development of our existing drug candidates. As of December 31, 2017, we had 17 full-time employees. We may need to hire more employees as our product pipeline and operations expand, further increasing the size of our organization and related expenses. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not efficiently use our resources, which may delay the development of our drug candidates and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Our success may be negatively impacted if key personnel leave.. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel is critical to our future success. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for such individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in engaging personnel with the skills and experience to support our business and research and development activities.. 36. Table of Contents. Our key personnel, especially Dr. Peter Suzdak, our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Douglas Swirsky, our President and Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Ely Benaim, our Chief Medical Officer, and Dr. Lisa Nolan, our Chief Business Officer, provide critical technical knowledge and expertise.  The loss of, Dr. Suzdak, Mr. Swirsky, Dr. Benaim, Dr. Nolan or any of the other members of our management team could result in delays in product development and diversion of management resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. We do not have \"key person\" life insurance policies for any of our executive officers.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, and limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.. We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability lawsuits.. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. Product liability claims may be brought against us by subjects enrolled in our clinical trials, patients, healthcare providers or others using, administering or selling our products. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with collaborators. Although we currently carry clinical trial insurance and product liability insurance we, or any collaborators, may not be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost. Even if our agreements with any future collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claims arise.. Risks Related to Reliance on Third Parties. Much of our drug development program depends upon third parties, and thus the conduct and completion of our clinical trials are, to some extent, beyond our control.. We have engaged third-party CROs and other investigators and collaborators, such as universities, medical institutions and other life science companies, to conduct our pre-clinical studies, toxicology studies and clinical trials, and to pursue development for our product candidates. For example, in February 2018, we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Zhejiang Haichang Biotechnology Co., Ltd. (\"Haichang\") pursuant to which Haichang will develop a nano-liposomal formulation of RX-0201 and will conduct certain pre-clinical and clinical activities through completion of a Phase 2a proof-of-concept clinical trial in hepatic cell carcinoma in China.  Engaging third parties, or collaborating with third parties, is typical practice in our industry. However, relying on such organizations means that the conduct of clinical trials and other studies, and the completion of these trials and studies, is not within our direct control. Trials and studies may be delayed due to circumstances outside our control, and such delays may result in additional expenses for us.. 37. Table of Contents. While we make efforts to oversee the work of third-party contractors, these collaborators are not our employees, and we cannot control the effort, time or other resources that they devote to our programs. Third parties may not assign priority to our programs or pursue them as diligently as we would if we were undertaking them ourselves.. If outside collaborators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug-development programs, or if their performance is substandard, the approval of our FDA applications and introduction of new drugs to the market may be delayed or unsuccessful. For example, the success of the Haichang agreement depends on, among other things, the skills, experience and efforts of Haichang, Haichang's commitment to the arrangement, and the financial condition of Haichang, all of which are beyond our control. In the event that Haichang fails to successfully develop or commercialize RX-0201, including due to early termination of the Haichang agreement, our ability to obtain license fees, milestone payments and royalties would be adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.  Our collaborators may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If our collaborators assist our competitors at our expense, our competitive position would be harmed.. We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our drug candidates, which exposes us to a number of risks that may delay development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our products or result in higher product costs.. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and we lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own drug candidates internally. Therefore, we rely on third-party expertise to support us in this area. We have entered into contracts with third-party manufacturers to manufacture, supply, store and distribute supplies of our drug candidates for our clinical trials. If any of our drug candidates receives FDA approval, we expect to rely on third-party contractors to manufacture our drugs. We have no current plans to build internal manufacturing capacity for any product candidate, and we have no long-term supply arrangements.. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to potential risks, such as the following:.   We may be unable to contract with third-party manufacturers on acceptable terms, or at all, because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. Potential manufacturers of any product candidate that is approved will be subject to FDA compliance inspections and any new manufacturer would have to be qualified to produce our products;.   Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical and commercial needs, if any;.   Our third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials through completion or to successfully produce, store and distribute our commercial products, if approved;.   Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and other government agencies to ensure compliance with cGMP and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards, but we may ultimately be responsible for any of their failures;.   If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to such improvements; and. 38. Table of Contents.   A third-party manufacturer may gain knowledge from working with us that could be used to supply one of our competitors with a product that competes with ours.. Each of these risks could delay or have other adverse impacts on our clinical trials and the approval and commercialization of our drug candidates, potentially resulting in higher costs, reduced revenues or both.. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and currently no internal capability to do so.. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. While we intend to have a role in the commercialization of our products, we do not anticipate having the resources in the foreseeable future to develop global sales and marketing capabilities for all of our proposed products. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to enter into and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies that have sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, a strategic interest in the products under development, and the ability to successfully market and sell our products. To the extent that we decide not to, or are unable to, enter into collaborative arrangements with respect to the sales and marketing of our proposed products, significant capital expenditures, management resources and time will be required to establish and develop an in-house marketing and sales force with the necessary expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish or maintain relationships with third-party collaborators or develop in-house sales and distribution capabilities. To the extent that we depend on third parties for marketing and distribution, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties, as well as the terms of our agreements with such third parties, which cannot be predicted at this early stage of our development. We cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to market and sell our products in the United States or overseas.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to patents of others, the value of our intellectual property rights would diminish, and our business and competitive position would suffer.. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors and licensees to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We have an active patent protection program that includes filing patent applications on new compounds, formulations, delivery systems and methods of making and using products and prosecuting these patent applications in the United States and abroad. As patents issue, we also file continuation applications as appropriate. Although we have taken steps to build a strong patent portfolio, we cannot predict:.   the degree and range of protection any patents will afford us against competitors, including whether third parties find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our licensed patents;.   if and when patents will issue in the United States or any other country;.   whether or not others will obtain patents claiming aspects similar to those covered by our licensed patents and patent applications;. 39. Table of Contents.   whether we will need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings to protect our intellectual property rights, which may be costly whether we win or lose;.   whether any of our patents will be challenged by our competitors alleging invalidity or unenforceability and, if opposed or litigated, the outcome of any administrative or court action as to patent validity, enforceability or scope;.   whether a competitor will develop a similar compound that is outside the scope of protection afforded by a patent or whether the patent scope is inherent in the claims modified due to interpretation of claim scope by a court;.   whether there were activities previously undertaken by a licensor that could limit the scope, validity or enforceability of licensed patents and intellectual property; or.   whether a competitor will assert infringement of its patents or intellectual property, whether or not meritorious, and what the outcome of any related litigation or challenge may be.. Our success also depends upon the skills, knowledge and experience of our scientific and technical personnel, our consultants and advisors as well as our licensors, sublicensees and contractors. To help protect our proprietary know-how and our inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. To this end, we require all employees to enter into agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of the ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions important to our business. These agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of such information. If any of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information is disclosed, the value of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary rights would be significantly impaired, and our business and competitive position would suffer.. Due to legal and factual uncertainties regarding the scope and protection afforded by patents and other proprietary rights, we may not have meaningful protection from competition.. Our long-term success will substantially depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technologies from infringement, misappropriation, discovery and duplication and avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others. Our patent rights, and the patent rights of biopharmaceutical companies in general, are highly uncertain and include complex legal and factual issues. These uncertainties also mean that any patents that we own or may obtain in the future could be subject to challenge, and even if not challenged, may not provide us with meaningful protection from competition. Patents already issued to us or our pending applications may become subject to dispute, and any dispute could be resolved against us.. In connection with the process of seeking patent protection for RX-5902 in Japan, we filed a patent application including claims covering RX-5902 with the Japanese Patent Office (\"JPO\") for examination. The JPO initially agreed that the claims covering the compound for RX-5902 were allowable, but as a result of a mistake in the patent application filing as prepared and submitted by our Japanese patent attorney and incomplete review by the JPO's patent examiner, the JPO issued a decision to grant a patent with claims that did not include RX-5902's chemical structure.  We appealed this decision with the JPO and requested withdrawal of the 'decision to grant' so that the correct claims would be allowed, but the JPO refused to withdraw its decision. As a result, and in accordance with Japanese law and procedure for appealing patent application decisions, we have filed a lawsuit against the JPO in Tokyo District Court to cause the JPO to reverse its decision to grant the errant patent and to allow a patent that includes claims covering RX-5902.  The patent application at issue remains pending subject to the outcome of this action.  However, there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in winning the appeal to correct the error in the patent registration that would exclude the compound for RX-5902.  While the composition of matter patent on RX-5902's structure remains pending in Japan, we have also filed, or intend to file, additional patents covering method of use and manufacturing process that would extend to 2035/2036 if approved.  We also expect that RX-5902 will be covered by regulatory exclusivity up to ten years post approval.. 40. Table of Contents. If we infringe the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products and be forced to defend against litigation and pay damages.. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and may have to:.   obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all;.   redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement;.   stop using the subject matter claimed in patents held by others, which could cause us to lose the use of one or more of our drug candidates;.   pay damages; or.   defend litigation or administrative proceedings that may be costly whether we win or lose and that could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources.. Although we have not received any claims of infringement by any third parties to date, we expect that as our drug candidates move further into clinical trials and commercialization and our public profile is raised, we may be subject to such claims.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. An investment in shares of our common stock is very speculative and involves a very high degree of risk.. To date, we have generated no revenues from product sales and only minimal revenues from a research agreement with a minority stockholder and interest on bank account balances and short-term investments. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $140,318,712 and $115,024,209 respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we had net losses of $25,294,503, $9,307,345 and $14,384,556 respectively, partially as a result of expenses incurred through a combination of research and development activities related to the various technologies under our control and expenses supporting those activities. Until we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our drug candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as:.   the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. 41. Table of Contents.   changes in our relationships with our licensors or other strategic partners;.   developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals;.   variations in our and our competitors' results of operations;.   changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;.   changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; and.   developments and market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.. Further, the stock market, in general, and the market for biotechnology companies, in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance and which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. You should also be aware that price volatility might be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low.. We will require additional capital funding the receipt of which may impair the value of our common stock.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our research, development, sales and marketing activities. We will need to raise additional capital through public or private equity or debt offerings or through arrangements with strategic partners or other sources in order to continue to develop our drug candidates.  There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available when needed or on terms satisfactory to us, if at all.  To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution and the new equity securities may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing common stock.. We have not paid dividends to our stockholders in the past, and we do not anticipate paying dividends to our stockholders in the foreseeable future.. We have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, to fund the continuing operation of our business, and therefore we do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, you will not realize any income from an investment in our common stock until and unless you sell your shares at a profit.. We may be subject to securities litigation, which is expensive and could divert management attention.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and in the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation.  We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future.  Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and direct our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. 42. Table of Contents"
