[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. We have identified the following material risks to our business. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or those risks we currently view to be immaterial, may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 for a further discussion of some of the factors that could affect future results.  If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Strategic Risks. Strategic risk relates to the Company's business plans and strategies, including the risks associated with: competitive threats; the global macro-environment in which we operate; international uncertainties; restructuring initiatives; mergers and acquisitions; protection of intellectual property; and other risks, including customer concentration, reliance on independent distributors and retention of key personnel.. The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive; an inability to effectively compete may adversely affect. our financial conditions and results of operations.. We operate in highly competitive markets in both of our platforms.  Some of our competitors have achieved substantially more market penetration in certain of the markets in which we operate.  Some of our competitors are larger and may have greater financial and other resources than we do, and our competitors may adopt more aggressive sales policies and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do, all of which could result in a loss of customers and in turn adversely affect our results of operations.. We operate in highly fragmented markets within the Process & Motion Control platform. As a result, we compete against numerous companies. Competition in our business lines is based on a number of considerations, including product performance, cost of transportation in the distribution of products, brand reputation, quality of client service and support, product availability and price. Additionally, some of our larger customers continue to attempt to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to increase their efficiency. If we are not selected to become one of these preferred providers, we may lose access to certain sections of the markets in which we compete. Our customers increasingly demand a competitively priced broad product range and we must continue to develop our expertise in order to manufacture and market these products successfully. To remain competitive, we will need to invest continuously in manufacturing, customer service and support, marketing and our distribution networks. We cannot assure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or that we will maintain our competitive position within each of the markets we serve.. Within the Water Management platform, we compete against both large international and national rivals, as well as many regional competitors.  Significant competition in any of the markets in which the Water Management platform operates could result in substantial downward pressure on product pricing and our profit margins, thereby adversely affecting the Water Management financial results. Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase the current market share of our products successfully in the future.. We may be unable to realize intended benefits from our ongoing supply chain optimization and footprint repositioning initiatives, restructuring and divestiture efforts, and as a result our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected.. In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we undertake from time to time restructuring plans, which can include global facility consolidations, product rationalizations, workforce reductions and other cost reduction initiatives. We also choose to divest operations that we no longer believe are additive or complementary to our platforms or strategic direction. These plans are intended to reduce operating costs, to modify our footprint to reflect changes in the markets we serve, to reflect changes in business focus, to strengthen focus on our core business and/or to address overall manufacturing overcapacity, including as a result of acquisitions. We may undertake further restructuring actions, workforce reductions or divestitures in the future. These types of activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities or divestitures that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies, benefits and cost savings might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted.. In addition, as a result of such actions, we expect to incur restructuring expenses and other charges, which may be material, and may exceed our estimates. Several factors could cause restructuring or divestiture activities to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These include potential disruption of our operations, customer relationships and other aspects of our business. Employee morale and productivity could also suffer or result in unwanted employee attrition. These activities require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work or result in a failure to meet operational targets. Divestitures may also give rise to obligations to buyers or other parties that could have a financial effect after the transaction is completed. Moreover, we could encounter changes to, or delays in executing, any restructuring. 15. or divestiture plans, any of which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense.. If we are unable to effectively manage risks associated with changing technology, product innovation and new product development, manufacturing techniques, distribution channels and business continuity, we may be at a competitive disadvantage.. The successful implementation of our business strategy requires us to continuously evolve our existing products and introduce new products to meet customers' needs in the industries we serve. Our products are characterized by stringent performance and specification requirements that mandate a high degree of manufacturing and engineering expertise. If we fail to meet these requirements, our business could be at risk. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of a number of factors, including product quality, price competitiveness, technical and manufacturing expertise, development and product design capability, new product innovation, reliability and timeliness of delivery, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet our customers' changing specifications with respect to these criteria. We cannot ensure that we will be able to address technological advances or introduce new products that may be necessary to remain competitive within our businesses. We cannot ensure that we can adequately protect any of our own technological developments to produce a sustainable competitive advantage. Furthermore, we may be subject to business continuity risk in the event of an unexpected loss of a material facility or operation. We cannot ensure that we can adequately protect against such a loss.. General economic and financial market weakness, as well as overall challenging market cycles, may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Our business operations have been adversely affected from time to time by volatility and weaknesses in the global economy and financial markets. A weakening of current conditions or a future downturn may adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Weak, challenging or volatile economic conditions in the end markets, businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for products and result in a decrease in sales volume for a prolonged period of time, which would have a negative impact on our future results of operations.. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets that we serve in the U.S. and the global economy generally. Some of the industries we serve are highly cyclical, such as the aerospace, energy and industrial equipment industries. We have undertaken cost reduction programs as well as diversified our markets to mitigate the effects of economic downturns; however, such programs may be unsuccessful. Any sustained weakness in demand or downturn or uncertainty in the economy generally would materially reduce our net sales and profitability.. For example, sales to the construction industry are driven by trends in commercial and residential construction, housing starts and trends in residential repair and remodeling. Consumer confidence, weather conditions, mortgage rates, credit standards and availability of consumer credit and income levels play a significant role in driving demand in commercial and residential construction, repair and remodeling sector. A drop or weakness in consumer confidence, prolonged adverse weather conditions, lack of availability or increased cost of credit, credit standards or unemployment could delay a recovery of commercial and residential construction levels and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial  condition, results of operations or cash flows. This may express itself in substantial downward pressure on product pricing and our profit margins, thereby adversely affecting our financial results.. Additionally, some of our products are used in the energy, mining and cement and aggregates markets.  Reductions and volatility in the prices of petroleum-related products and certain other mined raw materials costs have adversely affected the energy and mining industries, reducing their capital investments and the demand for certain of our products. Some customers may defer or cancel anticipated expenditures, projects or expansions until such time as these projects will be profitable based on the underlying cost of commodities compared to the cost of the project.  Weakness in those markets may also affect pricing of our products that are sold for use in those markets.. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit the ability of our customers to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders, reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future or impact their ability to pay their receivables. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for outstanding accounts receivable or reducing or eliminating the amount of trade credit available to us.. 16. Our anticipated divestiture of our VAG operations may not be successfully implemented and/or may cause disruption and harm to our ongoing business and operations.. Our board of directors has authorized management to seek a review of strategic alternatives, inclusive of a divestiture of our VAG operations. Potential risks related to that anticipated divestiture include, but are not limited to, uncertainty regarding the complexity or length of the process, the potential that the process will distract our board and management from our core business, the potential insufficiency of reserves for expenses and impairments that we have taken in connection with the determination, the potential that we will incur significant expenses in unsuccessfully pursuing one or more transactions, the risk that the process will impair relationships with our partners, suppliers and employees, the risk that the terms of any transaction will not be as advantageous to us as expected or desired, the risk that we may not be able to successfully effect the divestiture, and the risk of claims or other litigation arising from the pursuit of our intended course of action.  Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, our reputation, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. An inability to identify, or effectively integrate, acquisitions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Acquisitions are part of our growth strategy.  In fiscal 2018, we acquired World Dryer and Centa. We cannot ensure that suitable acquisition candidates will be identified and acquired in the future, that the financing of any such acquisition will be available on satisfactory terms, that we will be able to complete any such acquisition, that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business or operations, or that we will be able to accomplish our strategic objectives as a result of any such acquisition. Nor can we ensure that our acquisition strategies will be successfully received by customers or achieve their intended benefits.. Acquisitions are often undertaken to improve the operating results of either or both of the acquirer and the acquired company and we cannot ensure that we will be successful in this regard. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to fully realize the intended benefits from our acquisitions. We have encountered, and may encounter, various risks in acquiring other companies including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, potential failure to realize anticipated benefits, diversion of management's attention, issues in customer transitions, potential inadequacies of indemnities and other contractual remedies and unanticipated  problems,  risks  or liabilities, including  environmental, some  or all  of which could have a material  adverse effect  on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our international operations are subject to uncertainties, which  could  adversely  affect  our  business,  financial  condition,  results  of  operations  or  cash flows.. Our business is subject to certain risks associated with doing business internationally.  A significant portion of our sales are international; approximately 33% of our total net sales in fiscal 2018 originated outside of the U.S. Additionally, we have significant manufacturing operations outside of the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors relating to global operations, including:. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly fluctuations in the Euro against the U.S. dollar;. • foreign exchange controls;. • tariff increases, import duties or other retaliatory or trade protection measures instituted by the U.S. or other countries;. • compliance with export controls, import and export licensing requirements, and other trade compliance regulations;. • changes in tax laws;. • interest rates;. • differences in business practices in various countries;. • changes and differences in regulatory requirements in countries in which we operate or make sales;. • differing labor regulations, practices and standards;. • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments, move operations or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions;. • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. • restrictions under U.S. tax laws and other laws on our ability to repatriate dividends from our foreign subsidiaries; and. • exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption laws in various countries, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (\"FCPA\").. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 17. The loss or financial instability of any significant customer or customers accounting for our backlog could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. A substantial part of our business is concentrated with a few customers, and we have certain customers that are significant to our business. During fiscal 2018, our top 5 customers accounted for approximately 23.9% of our consolidated net sales, and our largest customer accounted for 8.2% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of one or more of these customers or other major customers, or a deterioration in our relationship with any of them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our contracted backlog is comprised of future orders for our products from a broad number of customers. Defaults by any of the customers that have placed significant orders with us could have a significant adverse effect on our net sales, profitability and cash flow. Our customers may in the future default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons deriving from the general economic environment or circumstances affecting those customers in particular. If a customer defaults on its obligations to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our backlog, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As of March 31, 2018, approximately 10% of our backlog was scheduled to ship beyond fiscal 2019.. We rely on independent distributors. Termination of one or more of our relationships with any of our key independent distributors or an increase in the distributors' sales of our competitors' products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition to our own direct sales force, we depend on the services of independent distributors to sell our Process & Motion Control products and provide service and aftermarket support to our OEMs and end users. We rely on an extensive distribution network, with nearly 2,400 distributor locations nationwide; however, for fiscal 2018, approximately 22% of our Process & Motion Control net sales were generated through sales to three of our key independent distributors, the largest of which accounted for 14% of Process & Motion Control net sales. Within Water Management, we depend on 1,200 independent sales representatives and approximately 60 third-party warehouses to distribute our products; however, for fiscal 2018, our three key independent distributors generated approximately 30% of our Water Management net sales with the largest accounting for 18% of Water Management net sales.. The loss of one of our key distributors or of a substantial number of our other distributors or an increase in the distributors' sales of our competitors' products to  our customers could have a material  adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash  flows.. The inability to adequately protect intellectual property, or defend against infringement claims brought against us, could adversely affect our business.. We attempt to protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, as well as third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. We cannot assure that any of our applications for protection of our intellectual property rights will be approved and maintained or that our competitors will not infringe or successfully challenge our intellectual property rights. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology.  It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants and advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our ability to sustain margins on some or all of our products may be affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition, in the ordinary course of our operations, from time to time we pursue and are pursued in potential litigation relating to the protection of certain intellectual property rights, including some of our more profitable products. An adverse ruling or other unfavorable outcome in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Terrorism, conflicts, wars and weather events may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers due to acts of terrorism, political conflicts, wars and weather events, in multiple locations around the world. In addition to the issues created by significant weather events, the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential actions, conflicts or wars have created, and will continue to create, economic and political uncertainties. In addition, as a global company with headquarters and significant operations located in the U.S., actions against or by the U.S. may. 18. particularly impact our business or employees. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in disruptions to our operations, decreases in demand for our products, difficulty or impossibility in delivering products to our customers or receiving components from our suppliers, delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and risks to our employees, resulting in, among other things, temporarily closed facilities, travel restrictions or longer-term disruptions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Operational Risks. Operational risk relates to risks arising from innovation, systems, processes, and external or internal events that affect the operation of our businesses. It includes product life cycle and execution; information management and data protection and security, including cyber security; supply chain and business disruption; and other risks, including human resources and employee relations.. Increases in the cost or availability of raw materials could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our manufacturing processes depend on third parties for raw materials, in particular bar steel, brass, castings, copper, forgings, high-performance engineered plastic, plate steel, resin, sheet steel and zinc, as well as petroleum and other carbon-based fuel products. While we strive to maintain alternative sources for most raw materials, our business is subject to the risk of price fluctuations, including as a result of, or in reaction to, tariffs, import duties, or other trade protection measures instituted by the U.S. or other countries, inefficiencies in the event of a need to change our suppliers, and delays in the delivery of and potential unavailability of our raw materials. Also, trade wars could impact the cost or availability of goods or materials, both imported and domestic, or adversely affect demand for our products.  Any such price fluctuations or delays, if material, could harm our profitability or operations. In addition, the loss of a substantial number of suppliers could result in material cost increases or reduce our production capacity.. We do not typically enter into hedge transactions to reduce our exposure to purchase price risks and cannot ensure that we would be successful in recouping these increases if these risks were to materialize. In addition, if we are unable to continue to purchase our required quantities of raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or if we are unable to maintain or enter into our purchasing contracts for our larger commodities, our business operations could be disrupted and our profitability could be impacted in a material adverse manner.. The ongoing updates to our Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") systems, as well as failures of our data security and information technology infrastructure and cyber security, could cause substantial business interruptions and/or adversely affect our business.. Utilizing a phased approach, we continue to update our ERP systems across both our Process & Motion Control and Water Management platforms. If these updates are unsuccessful, we could incur substantial business interruptions, including the inability to perform routine business transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Further, these updates may not result in the benefits we intend or be implemented on a timely basis.. In addition, we depend heavily on information technology infrastructure to manage our business objectives and operations, support our customers' requirements and protect sensitive information. There have been significant and increasing instances of data and security breaches, malicious interference with technology systems and industrial espionage involving companies in numerous industries, and cyber security threats are becoming more complex. While we have taken steps to maintain and enhance adequate cyber security and address these risks and uncertainties by implementing additional security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency, redundancy and recovery processes and by securing insurance, these measures may be inadequate.  As a result, any inability by us to successfully manage our information systems, or respond effectively to any attack on or interference with our systems, including matters related to system and data security, privacy, reliability, compliance, performance and access, problems related to our systems caused by natural disasters, security breaches or malicious attacks, and any inability of these systems to fulfill their intended business purpose, could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, account for and collect receivables, protect sensitive data of the Company, our customers, our employees, our suppliers and other business partners, comply with our third party obligations of confidentiality and care, or otherwise carry on business in the normal course. Any such events could require significant costly remediation beyond levels covered by insurance and could cause us to lose customers and/or revenue, require us to incur significant expense to remediate, including as a result of legal or regulatory claims or proceedings, or damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 19. Our inability to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our business.. Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and develop highly-skilled management and key personnel. Competition for these persons in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel, or to effectively implement successions to existing personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel or arrange for successors to key personnel, our business could materially suffer.. Weather could adversely affect the demand for products in our Water Management platform and decrease our net sales.. Demand for our Water Management products is primarily driven by commercial construction activity, remodeling and retrofit opportunities, and to a lesser extent, new home starts as well as water and wastewater infrastructure expansion for municipal, industrial and hydropower applications. Weather is an important variable affecting financial performance as it significantly impacts construction activity. Adverse weather conditions, such as prolonged periods of cold or rain, blizzards, hurricanes and other severe weather patterns, could delay or halt construction and remodeling activity, which could have a negative effect on our business. For example, an unusually severe winter can lead to reduced construction activity and magnify the seasonal decline in our Water Management net sales and earnings during the winter months. In addition, a prolonged winter season can delay construction and remodeling plans and hamper the typical seasonal increase in net sales and earnings during the spring months.. Disruptions caused by labor disputes or organized labor activities could adversely affect our business or financial results.. As of March 31, 2018, we had approximately 8,300 employees.  Approximately 100 of our United States employees are represented by labor unions and approximately 2,200 of our employees reside in Europe, where trade union membership is common.  Although we believe that our relations with our employees are strong, if our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could interfere with our ability to deliver products on a timely basis and could have other negative effects, such as decreased productivity and increased labor costs. In addition, if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized as a result of legal or regulatory changes which may make union organizing easier, or otherwise, our costs could increase and our efficiency be affected in a material adverse manner, negatively impacting our business and financial results. Further, many of our direct and indirect customers and their suppliers, and organizations responsible for shipping our products, have unionized workforces and their businesses may be impacted by strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Financial Risks. Financial risk relates to our ability to meet our financial obligations. It includes our highly leveraged capital structure, compliance with covenants related to our credit agreement and our 4.875% Senior Notes due 2025 (the \"Notes\"), limits on access to liquidity and restrictive credit-related agreements.. Our debt levels could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to  fund  our operations, limit  our ability to  react  to  changes in the  economy  or our industry, inhibit us from making beneficial acquisitions and  prevent  us from making  debt service  payments.. Although we reduced our long-term debt in recent years, we are still a highly leveraged company. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt will depend on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, and currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements may not be realized on schedule, or at all. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt service and other obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity.  We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our substantial indebtedness could also have other important consequences with respect to our ability to manage and grow our business successfully, including the following:. • it may limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, acquisitions or other purposes;. • it may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under our credit agreement, the indenture governing our Notes (the \"Indenture\") and our other indebtedness;. • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness. 20. and so will not be available for other purposes;. • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business, or in taking advantage of strategic opportunities;. • we are and will continue to be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;. • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business or the economy;. • it may restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or divestitures, introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; and. • along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness, among other things, may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, make acquisitions or capital expenditures, acquire or dispose of assets or take certain of the actions mentioned above, any of which could restrict our operations and business plans.. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our indebtedness, including the senior secured credit facilities and borrowings outstanding under our accounts receivable securitization facility, bears interest at rates that fluctuate with changes in certain short-term prevailing interest rates.  In addition, our hedging arrangements may not protect us to the extent we expect.  See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional information.. Also, in spite of the limitations in our credit agreement and/or the Indenture, we may still incur significantly more debt, which could intensify the risks described above on our business, results and financial condition. For more information about our indebtedness, see Item 8, Note 11 Long-Term Debt.. The agreements governing our financing arrangements  impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our credit agreement and the Indenture contain various covenants that limit or prohibit our ability, among other things, to:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase, retire or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments;. • make certain loans, acquisitions, capital expenditures or investments;. • sell certain assets, including stock of our subsidiaries;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • create or incur liens;. • consolidate, merge, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates.. These agreements contain covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions, such as incurring additional debt, if we are unable to meet defined specified financial ratios, which could result in limiting our long-term growth prospects by hindering our ability to incur future indebtedness or grow through acquisitions. Failure to comply with certain covenants in these agreements could result in a default. For more  information,  see  Item  7  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and  Results of Operations-Liquidity  and  Capital Resources.. The restrictions contained in the credit agreement and/or the Indenture could:. • limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans;. • restrict our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock;. • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, to enter into strategic acquisitions, to fund investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest; and. • limit our access to the cash generated by our subsidiaries.. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit agreement and/or the Indenture, the lenders or the noteholders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities and/or the Notes to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the senior secured credit facilities on a first- priority lien basis. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities or the noteholders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For a more detailed description of the limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, see Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources\".. 21. Our goodwill and intangible assets are valued at an amount that is high relative to our total assets and in excess of our stockholders equity.. As of March 31, 2018, our goodwill and intangible assets totaled $1,276.1 million and $577.5 million, respectively, and represent a substantial portion of our assets.  These assets result from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the tangible net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Significant  negative  industry  or  economic  trends,  disruptions  to  our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes to the use of our assets, changes in the structure of our business, divestitures, market capitalization declines, or increases in associated discount rates may  impair our goodwill  and  other intangible assets. Any determination requiring the impairment of goodwill or intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations, particularly in the period in which we take any related charges, and financial condition.. Our required cash contributions to our pension plans may increase further and we could experience a material change in the funded status of our defined benefit pension plans and the amount recorded in our consolidated balance sheets related to those plans. Additionally, our pension costs could increase in future years.. The funded status of the defined benefit pension plans depends on such factors as asset returns, market interest rates, legislative changes and funding regulations. If the returns on the assets of any of our plans were to decline in future periods, if market interest rates were to decline, if the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (\"PBGC\") were to require additional contributions to any such plans as a result of acquisitions or if other actuarial assumptions were to be modified, our future required cash contributions and pension costs to such plans could increase. Any such increases could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The need to make contributions, which may be substantial, to such plans may reduce the cash available to meet our other obligations, including our obligations under our borrowing arrangements or to meet the needs of our business. In addition, the PBGC may terminate our U.S. defined benefit pension plans under limited circumstances, including in the event the PBGC concludes that the risk may increase unreasonably if such plans continue. In the event a U.S. defined benefit pension plan is terminated for any reason while it is underfunded, we could be required to make an immediate payment to the PBGC of all or a substantial portion of such plan's underfunding, as calculated by the PBGC based on its own assumptions (which might result in a larger obligation than that based on the assumptions we have used to fund such plan), and the PBGC could place a lien on material amounts of our assets.. Our ability to pay dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock may be limited.. Payment of dividends on our mandatory convertible preferred stock in the future will be determined by our board of directors in its sole discretion and will depend on business conditions, our financial condition, earnings and liquidity, and other factors.  Our failure to pay such dividends could harm our reputation and our ability to obtain future financing or capital.. We are a holding company and depend upon distributions of cash from our subsidiaries to fund our cash needs, including dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock. Our credit agreement and the Indenture contain limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us.  In the event that either of these agreements restricts our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries needed to pay dividends in cash on our mandatory convertible preferred stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on the mandatory convertible preferred stock.. In addition, under Delaware law, our board of directors may declare dividends on our capital stock only to the extent of our statutory \"surplus,\" or, if there is no such surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. Further, even if we are permitted under our contractual obligations and Delaware law to pay cash dividends on the mandatory convertible preferred stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends in cash on the mandatory convertible preferred stock.. If, upon mandatory conversion or an early conversion at the option of a holder, we have not declared and paid all or any portion of the accumulated and unpaid dividends payable on the mandatory convertible preferred stock for specified periods, the applicable conversion rate will be adjusted so that converting holders receive an additional number of shares of common stock having a market value generally equal to the amount of such accumulated and unpaid dividends, subject to limitations. This issuance of additional common stock to satisfy the accumulated and unpaid dividends payable on the mandatory convertible preferred stock, or generally upon its conversion, could negatively impact our share price.. Legal and Compliance Risks. Legal and compliance risk relates to risks arising from conformity with external policies and procedures, government and regulatory compliance, and ongoing environment and legal proceedings.  These include customer driven policies, government. 22. and regulatory requirements and environmental health and safety litigation. These types of risks may impose additional cost on us or cause us to have to change our business models or practices.. Our failure to comply with government regulations and requirements, third-party certification requirements and customer-driven policies and standards, including those related to social responsibility, could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations.. In addition to complying with laws and applicable government regulations and requirements, prevailing industry standards, competitive pressures  and/or our customers may require us to comply with further quality, social responsibility, or other business policies or standards, before customers and prospective customers commence, or continue, doing business with us. These expectations, policies and standards may be more restrictive than current laws and regulations as well as our own pre-existing policies; they may be customer-driven, established by the industry sectors in which we operate or imposed by third-party organizations.. Our compliance with these policies, standards and third  party  certification  requirements could  be costly  and  could  in  some  cases require  us to  change the way in which we operate. In  addition, if we  fail  to  comply, or if our compliance increases our costs and/or restricts our ability to do business as compared to our competitors that do not adhere to such standards, we  could  experience an  adverse  effect  on  our customer relationships, reputation, operations, cost structure and/or profitability.. We are subject to changes in legislative, regulatory and legal developments involving taxes.. We are subject to U.S. federal and state, and other countries' and jurisdictions', income, payroll, property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactment of new tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities may require significant judgment in determining the appropriate provision and related accruals for these taxes; and as a result, such changes could result in substantially higher taxes and, therefore, could have a significant adverse effect on our results or operations, financial conditions and liquidity.. Currently, a significant amount of our revenue is generated from customers located outside of the United States, and an increasingly greater portion of our assets and employees are located outside of the U.S.  The U.S., the European Union and member states along with numerous other countries are currently engaged in establishing fundamental changes to tax laws affecting the taxation of multinational corporations.  On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"U.S. Tax Reform\"), which makes substantial changes to U.S. tax law including, among other changes, a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, a limitation on the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), the allowance of immediate expensing of capital expenditures, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings. U.S. Tax Reform incorporates broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code and we expect to continue to see future regulatory, administrative or legislative guidance. The full extent of the impact remains uncertain at this time, and our current interpretations of, and assumptions regarding, U.S. Tax Reform are subject to additional regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"). As a result, U.S. Tax Reform, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the IRS, and other tax laws or developments in the U.S. or other countries could have significant effects on us, some of which may be adverse and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and  have a negative impact on our ability to compete in the global marketplace.. We may incur significant costs for environmental compliance and/or to address liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.. Our operations and facilities worldwide are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pollution and the protection of the environment, health and safety, including those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous wastes and other materials, and the remediation of contaminated sites. A failure by us to comply with applicable requirements or the permits required for our operations could result in civil or criminal fines, penalties, enforcement actions, third-party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup or regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, including the installation of pollution control equipment or remedial actions.. Some environmental laws and regulations impose requirements to investigate and remediate contamination on present and former owners and operators of facilities and sites, and on potentially responsible parties (\"PRPs\") for sites to which such parties may have sent waste for disposal. Such liability can be imposed without regard to fault and, under certain circumstances, may be joint and several, resulting in one PRP being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages to natural resources. On occasion we are involved in such investigations and/or cleanup, and also have been or could be named as a PRP in environmental matters.. 23. The discovery of additional contamination, including at acquired facilities, the imposition of more stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including cleanup requirements, disputes with our insurers or the insolvency of other responsible parties could require us to incur significant capital expenditures or operating costs materially in excess of our accruals. Future investigations we undertake may lead to discoveries of contamination that must be remediated, and decisions to close facilities may trigger remediation requirements that are not currently applicable. We may also face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to hazardous substances used or disposed of by us, contained within our current or former products, or present in the soil or groundwater at our current or former facilities. We could incur significant costs in connection with such liabilities. See Item 8, Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies for additional information.. Certain subsidiaries are subject to litigation, including numerous asbestos and product liability claims, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Certain subsidiaries are co-defendants in various lawsuits in a number of U.S. jurisdictions alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain components of our products. The uncertainties of litigation and the uncertainties related to insurance and indemnification coverage make it difficult to accurately predict the ultimate financial effect of these claims. If our insurance or indemnification coverage is not adequate to cover our potential financial exposure, or the actual number or value of asbestos-related claims differs materially from our existing estimates, we could incur material costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. In addition, we may be subject to product liability claims if the use of our products, or the exposure to our products or their raw materials, is alleged to have resulted in injury or other adverse effects. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage but we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain such insurance on commercially reasonable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. In addition, our business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed; if this reputation is damaged as a result of a product liability claim, it may be difficult to maintain our pricing positions and market share with respect to our products.  An unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. See Item 8, Note 18 Commitments and Contingencies for additional details."
