[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our common stock.  Investors or potential investors in our stock should carefully consider the risks described below.. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Our Business. We have not yet achieved annual positive cash flows.. Our net cash used in operating activities of continuing operations was $5.0 million in 2017 and $8.5 million in 2016.  We may not be able to achieve revenue growth, profitability or positive cash flow, on either a quarterly or annual basis, and that profitability, if achieved, may not be sustained.  If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, we may not be financially viable in the future and may have to curtail, suspend, or cease operations, restructure existing operations to attempt to ensure future viability, or pursue other alternatives such as re-filing for bankruptcy, pursuing dissolution and liquidation, seeking to merge with another company, selling all or substantially all of our assets or raising additional capital through equity or debt financings.. We have generated significant losses since our inception in 2000, and losses in the future could cause the trading price of our stock to decline or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our ability to pay our debts as they become due and on our cash flows.. Since we began operations in February 2000, we have incurred an accumulated deficit in excess of $265 million.  We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations if achieved.  If our losses continue, our liquidity may continue to be severely impaired, our stock price may fall and our shareholders may lose all or a significant portion of their investment.  If we are not able to attain profitability in the near future our financial condition could deteriorate further which could have a material adverse impact on our business and prospects and result in a significant or complete loss of shareholder investment.  Further, we may be unable to pay our debt obligations as they become due, which include obligations to secured creditors.. 9. Index. We may need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings in the future to achieve our business objectives and to satisfy our cash obligations, which would dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders and possibly subordinate certain of their rights to the rights of new investors.. We may need to raise additional funds through debt or equity financings in order to complete our ultimate business objectives.  We also may choose to raise additional funds in debt or equity financings if they are available to us on reasonable terms to increase our working capital, strengthen our financial position or to make acquisitions.  Our board of directors has the ability, without seeking shareholder approval, to issue convertible debt and additional shares of common stock or preferred stock that is convertible into common stock for such consideration as the board of directors may consider sufficient, which may be at a discount to the market price.  Any sales of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in dilution of the equity interests of our existing shareholders, which could be substantial.  Additionally, if we issue shares of preferred stock or convertible debt to raise funds, the holders of those securities might be entitled to various preferential rights over the holders of our common stock, including repayment of their investment, and possibly additional amounts, before any payments could be made to holders of our common stock in connection with an acquisition of us.  Such preferred shares, if authorized, might be granted rights and preferences that would be senior to, or otherwise adversely affect, the rights and the value of our common stock.  Also, new investors may require that we and certain of our shareholders enter into voting arrangements that give them additional voting control or representation on our board of directors.. Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financing reporting in the future could adversely affect investor confidence, impair the value of our common stock and increase our cost of raising capital.. Any future failure to remedy deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that may be discovered or our failure to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of such controls, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements.  Any such failure could, in turn, affect the future ability of our management to certify that internal control over our financial reporting is effective.  Inferior internal control over financial reporting could also subject us to the scrutiny of the SEC and other regulatory bodies which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the trading price of our common stock.. In addition, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market's confidence in our financial statements and harm our share price.  Furthermore, deficiencies could result in future non-compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the 2013 COSO Framework.  Such non-compliance could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including review by the SEC or other regulatory authorities.. There are significant market risks associated with our business.. We have formulated our business plan and strategies based on certain assumptions regarding the size of the rice bran market, our anticipated share of this market, the estimated price and acceptance of our products and other factors.  These assumptions are based on our best estimates; however, our assessments may not prove to be correct.  Any future success may depend upon factors including changes in governmental regulation, increased levels of competition, including the entry of additional competitors and increased success by existing competitors, changes in general economic conditions, increases in operating costs including costs of rice bran, production, supplies, personnel, equipment and reduced margins caused by competitive pressures.  Many of these factors are beyond our control.. The anticipated benefits of moving our corporate headquarters to Texas may not be realized, and difficulties in connection with moving corporate headquarters could have an adverse effect on us.. We intend to relocate our corporate headquarters to The Woodlands, Texas sometime during the second quarter of 2018.  We recognize some of our executive officers and other key decision makers may not relocate to Texas.  We may face significant challenges in relocating our principal executive office to a different state, including difficulties in retaining and attracting officers, key personnel and other employees and challenges in maintaining corporate headquarters in a state different from where other employees, including other executive officers, corporate support staff and manufacturing facilities, are located.  Employees may be uncertain about their future roles within our organization as a result of the relocation. Management may also be required to devote substantial time to relocating our corporate headquarters and related matters, which could otherwise be devoted to focusing on ongoing business operations and other initiatives and opportunities. Any such difficulties could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 10. Index. We may face difficulties integrating businesses we acquire.. As part of our strategy, we may review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets or enhance technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth opportunities.  Such acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to:.   problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products;.   unanticipated costs;.   diversion of management's attention from our core business;.   adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;.   risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and.   potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations.. We depend on a limited number of customers and their ability to meet their obligations.. In 2017, three customers accounted for 39% of revenues and the top ten customers accounted for 63% of revenues from continuing operations.  As of December 31, 2017, the customers with the highest ten balances accounted for 70% of accounts receivable.. We are dependent upon the continued growth, viability and financial stability of our customers.  We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues.  Consolidation among our customers may further reduce the number of customers that generate a significant percentage of our revenues.  This results in a concentration of credit risk with respect to our outstanding accounts receivable.  We consider the financial strength of the customer, the remoteness of the possible risk that a default event will occur, the potential benefits to our future growth and development, possible actions to reduce the likelihood of a default event and the benefits from the transaction before entering into a large credit limit for a customer.  Although we analyze these factors, the ultimate collection of the obligation from the customer may not occur.  Although we continue to expand our customer base in an attempt to mitigate the concentration of credit risk, the writing off of an accounts receivable balance could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables.  Historically, we have not experienced any loss of our cash and cash equivalents, but we have experienced losses to our trade receivables.  A significant reduction in sales to any of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may encounter difficulties in maintaining relationships with distributors and customers while enforcing our credit policies.. We define credit risk as the risk of loss from obligors or counterparty default.  Our credit risks arise from both distributors and consumers.  Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control.  Our ability to forecast future trends and spot shifts in consumer patterns or behavior even before they occur are vital for success in today's economy.  In managing risk, our objective is to protect our profitability, but also to protect, to the extent we can, our ongoing relationships with our distributors and customers.  However, as part of our credit risk policies, we occasionally must, among other things, cancel, reduce credit limits and place cash only requirements for certain questionable accounts.  These credit risk policies may negatively impact our relationships with our distributors and customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We rely upon a limited number of product offerings.. The majority of the products that we have sold through December 31, 2017, have been based on SRB.  A decline in the market demand for our SRB or the products of other companies utilizing our SRB products would have a significant adverse impact on us.. Our ability to generate sales is dependent upon our ability to continue our ongoing marketing efforts to raise awareness of our products and benefits of rice bran products generally.. We are dependent on our ability to market products to animal food producers, food manufacturers, mass merchandisers, health food retailers and to other companies for use in their products.  We must increase the level of awareness and benefits of rice bran products to be used in food and food ingredients in general and our products in particular.  We will be required to devote substantial management and financial resources to these marketing and advertising efforts and such efforts may not be successful.. 11. Index. Our ability to adapt to sudden increases in demand of our product is limited by an adequate supply of raw rice bran and our ability to find additional facilities for production.. Many of our current products depend on our proprietary technology using raw rice bran, which is a by-product from milling paddy rice to white rice.  Our ability to manufacture SRB is currently limited to the production capability of our equipment located at our two suppliers' rice mills in California and our own plant located adjacent to our supplier in Mermentau, Louisiana.  At these facilities and our value-added product plants in Dillon, Montana, we currently are capable of producing enough finished products to meet current demand.  If demand for our products were to increase dramatically in the future, we would need additional production capacity which may take time and may expose us to additional long term operating costs.. We may not be able to continue to secure adequate sources of raw rice bran to meet our future demand.  Since rice bran has a limited shelf life, the supply of rice bran is affected by the amount of rice planted and harvested each year.. Adverse economic or weather conditions may impact our supply of raw rice bran.. If economic or weather conditions, for example drought conditions in California, adversely affect the amount of rice planted or harvested, the cost of rice bran products that we use may increase.  We are not always able to immediately pass cost increases to our customers and any increase in the cost of SRB products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We face competition from other companies that produce bran, grains and other alternative ingredients with similar benefits as our rice brans.. Competition in our targeted industries, including food ingredients, animal feed supplements and companion pet food ingredients is vigorous, with a large number of businesses engaged in the various industries.  Many of our competitors have established reputations for successfully developing and marketing their products, including products that incorporate bran from other cereal grains and other alternative ingredients that are widely recognized as providing similar benefits as rice bran.  In addition, many of our competitors have greater financial, managerial and technical resources than we do.  If we are not successful in competing in these markets, we may not be able to attain our business objectives.. We must comply with our contractual obligations.. We have numerous ongoing contractual obligations under various purchase, sale, supply, production and other agreements which govern our business operations.  While we seek to comply at all times with these obligations, we may not be able to comply with the terms of all contracts during all periods of time, especially if there are significant changes in market conditions or our financial condition.  If we are unable to comply with our material contractual obligations, there likely would be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints both domestically and abroad and our failure to comply with these laws, regulations and constraints could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.. In both the U.S. and foreign markets, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our products are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints.  Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at all levels of government in foreign jurisdictions.  We are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Agriculture, state and local authorities and foreign governmental agencies.  In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may negatively impact the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of sales revenues.  Our failure to comply with these current and new regulations could lead to the imposition of significant penalties or claims, limit the production or marketing of any non-compliant products or advertising and could negatively impact our business.. Change in U.S. tax law in December 2017 could potentially impact the measurement of our financial condition and operating results.. On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted significant changes to U.S. tax law following the passage and signing of H.R.1, \"An Act to Provide for Reconciliation Pursuant to Titles II and V of the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2018\" (the Tax Act).   The Tax Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate to a maximum of 21 percent.  As of December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act, however, in certain cases, as described below, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances. The application of this rate reduction to the ending deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities impacted our expense for income taxes by $7.1 million which was fully offset by a corresponding change to our valuation allowance in 2017.  We are still analyzing the Tax Act and refining our calculations, which could potentially impact the measurement of our tax balances.  The Tax Act contains several base broadening provisions that became effective on January 1, 2018, that we do not expect to have a material impact on future earnings.. 12. Index. We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls.. We sell food and nutritional products for animal and human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering and other adulteration of food products.  We may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death.  We maintain a product liability policy for $5.0 million per year in the aggregate.  In addition, we may voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage.  A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful, there may be negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury which could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers.. Many of the risks of our business have only limited insurance coverage and many of our business risks are uninsurable.. Our business operations are subject to potential product liability, environmental, fire, employee, manufacturing, shipping and other risks.  Although we have insurance to cover some of these risks, the amount of this insurance is limited and includes numerous exceptions and limitations to coverage.  In the event we were to suffer a significant uninsured claim, our financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, enforce and protect our patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights for our products and technology.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect and enforce the patents, trade secrets and trademarks that we have and to develop and obtain new patents and trademarks for future processes, machinery, compounds and products that we develop.  The process of seeking patent protection may be long and expensive, and patents might not be issued or not be broad enough in scope.  We may not be able to protect our technology adequately, and our competition may be able to develop similar technology that does not infringe or encroach upon any of our rights.. There currently are no claims or lawsuits pending or threatened against us regarding possible infringement claims, but infringement claims by third parties, or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims, could be asserted in the future or that such assertions, if proven to be accurate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our patents, to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others.  Any litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of our efforts and other resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the loss of our proprietary rights, subjecting us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  A license under a third party's intellectual property rights might not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all.. We are dependent on key employees.. Our success depends upon the efforts of our top management team and certain other key employees, including the efforts of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer.  Although we have written employment agreements with these employees, such individuals could die, become disabled or resign.  In addition, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key management persons for positions relating to the marketing and distribution of our products.  We may not be able to recruit and employ such executives at times and on terms acceptable to us.  Also, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price and changes in our overall compensation program, including our equity incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain such key employees.. Compliance with corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expenses.. In order to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including  the framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) entitled \"Internal Control - Integrated Framework (the \"2013 Framework), and other regulations issued by the SEC, such as Dodd-Frank, we may need to invest substantial resources to comply with these evolving standards, and this investment would result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.. Our officers and directors have limited liability and have indemnification rights.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that we may indemnify our officers and directors against losses sustained or liabilities incurred which arise from any transaction in that officer's or director's respective managerial capacity, unless that officer or director violates a duty of loyalty, did not act in good faith, engaged in intentional misconduct or knowingly violated the law, approved an improper dividend, or derived an improper benefit from the transaction.. 13. Index. Risks Relating to Our Stock. Our stock price is volatile.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future.  The market price of the common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including:.   fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;.   fluctuations in the cost of raw rice bran;.   developments in our relationships with customers and suppliers;.   our ability to obtain financing;.   announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;.   announcements of technological innovations or new systems or enhancements used by us or our competitors;.   the loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees;.   developments in our or our competitors' intellectual property rights;.   adverse effects to our operating results due to impairment of goodwill;.   failure to meet the expectation of securities analysts' or the public;.   general economic and market conditions;.   our ability to expand our operations, domestically and internationally;.   the amount and timing of expenditures related to any expansion;.   litigation involving us, our industry or both;.   actual or anticipated changes in expectations by investors or analysts regarding our performance; and.   price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company.  Our stock price is volatile and we have been the target of shareholder litigation.  Any shareholder litigation brought against us in the future could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources from our business.. We have significant \"equity overhang\" which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.. As of March 8, 2018, 18,178,724 shares of common stock were outstanding (including 1,275,452 shares of nonvested stock), 22,322,909 shares of common stock were issuable upon exercise of our outstanding stock options and warrants, 597,865 shares of common stock were issuable upon conversion of preferred stock and 470,000 shares of common stock issuable upon vesting of restricted stock units.  The possibility that substantial amounts of our common stock may be sold by investors or the perception that such sales could occur, often called \"equity overhang,\" could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future.  The issuance of the additional shares upon an increase in our authorized shares of common stock would significantly increase the amount of our common stock outstanding and the amount of the equity overhang.. The authorization and issuance of preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common stock.. Our Board, without further action or vote by holders of our common stock, has the right to establish the terms, preference, rights and restrictions and issue shares of preferred stock.  The terms of any series of preferred stock could be issued with terms, rights, preferences and restrictions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and thereby reduce the value of our common stock.  The designation and issuance of preferred stock favorable to current management or shareholders could make it more difficult to gain control of our board of directors or remove our current management and may be used to defeat hostile bids for control which might provide shareholders with premiums for their shares.  We have designated and issued five series of preferred stock that no longer remain outstanding.  In addition, in February 2016 and February 2017, respectively, we designated and issued a sixth and seventh series of preferred stock, Series F and Series G.  As of March 8, 2018, no shares of Series F preferred stock and 630 shares of Series G preferred stock remain outstanding. We may issue additional series of preferred stock in the future.. 14. Index. If we fail to comply with the continuing listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our securities could be delisted.. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol \"RIBT\", and we also have outstanding warrants listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol \"RIBTW\".  For our common stock and warrants to continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we must meet the current NASDAQ Capital Market continued listing requirements, including maintaining a minimum of $2.5 million in shareholders' equity and maintaining a minimum common stock bid price of $1.00.  If we were unable to meet these requirements, including, but not limited to, requirements to obtain shareholder approval of a transaction other than a public offering involving the sale or issuance equal to 20% or more of our common stock at a price that is less than the market value of our common stock, our common stock and warrants could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market.  If our securities were to be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our securities could continue to trade on the over-the-counter bulletin board following any delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market, or on the Pink Sheets, as the case may be.  Any such delisting of our securities could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for our securities, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and less coverage of us by securities analysts, if any.  Also, if in the future we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public or private equity markets.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet these continued listing requirements or other Nasdaq compliance standards in the future."
