[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors that could materially affect our business, financial position, operating results or liquidity and the trading price of our common stock are described below. This information should be considered carefully, together with other information in this report and other reports and materials we file with the SEC.. A large portion of our business is subject to the volatility of and is likely to fluctuate with the level of global oil and natural gas exploration, development and production.. Demand for our remote communication services and collaborative applications depends on our customers' willingness to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas. Our business will suffer if these expenditures decline. Our customers' willingness to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas depends largely upon prevailing market conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:. <U+0095>   the supply, demand and price expectations for oil and natural gas;. 12. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   capital expenditure levels of drillers and producers of oil and natural gas;. <U+0095>   the addressable market and utilization rate for drilling rigs and oilfield services;. <U+0095>   the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) or non-OPEC countries to influence and maintain production levels and pricing;. <U+0095>   the worldwide political, regulatory and economic environment;. <U+0095>   the degree to which alternative energy sources displace oil and natural gas; and. <U+0095>   advances in exploration, development and production technology.. Since 2014, oil and gas prices have declined significantly, resulting in reduced expenditures for exploration and production. As a result, we have seen a material decline in the demand for our products and services and significant pressure on the prices we can charge. Furthermore, our customers have experienced declines in their cash flows which has led to delays in payment, or nonpayment, for our products and services. These conditions have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Global Xpress (GX) Dispute may have a material adverse effect on us.. See a more complete discussion of the GX Dispute in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. The GX Dispute has and will continue to have an impact on us for the foreseeable future. Preparation for and participation in the arbitration will continue to divert Company resources and management's attention from our core operations. If the arbitration panel determines that we are liable for take-or-pay obligation to Inmarsat, there could be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and if we fail to keep pace with these changes or if access to telecommunications in remote locations becomes easier or less expensive, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.. Recently some remote communications providers are offering the use of Ka-band satellite service, instead of or in addition to the Ku-band and C-band satellite space segments used today. Our business may be harmed if our competitors are more successful than us in introducing Ka-band services to meet customer needs.. If alternative telecommunications services to remote locations become more readily accessible or less expensive, our business will suffer. New disruptive technologies could make our VSAT-based networks or other services obsolete or less competitive than they are today, requiring us to reduce the prices that we are able to charge for our services or causing us to undergo expensive transitions to new technologies. We may not be able to successfully respond to new technological developments and challenges or identify and respond to new market opportunities, services or solutions offered by competitors. In addition, our efforts to respond to technological innovations and competition may require significant capital investments and resources.. Failure to obtain and retain skilled personnel could impede our business and growth strategy.. Our operations depend on a highly qualified executive, sales, technical, development, service and management team. Failure to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the event that our cyber security measures fail or are otherwise inadequate, our systems or reputation may be damaged which could harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. We rely heavily on information systems to run our business. There can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect such attacks. If such incidents or attacks do occur, they could have a material impact on our systems including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to our facilities, equipment and data. In addition, we could be adversely affected by the theft or loss of confidential customer data or intellectual property. With the acquisition of Cyphre, we now market our cybersecurity services as an expertise. A successful cyberattack against us may create negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with customers. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against these events or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by these events or the failure or inadequacy of our security systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions as a primary component of our strategy. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms, or we may be unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, which could disrupt our operations and adversely impact our business and operating results.. A primary component of our strategy has been to acquire businesses to grow our product and service offerings. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary technologies, products and businesses as a primary component of our growth strategy. Acquisitions involve certain known and unknown risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ from our expectations. For example:. <U+0095>   we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms;. <U+0095>   we may pursue international acquisitions, which inherently pose more risks than domestic acquisitions;. <U+0095>   we compete with others to acquire complementary products, technologies and businesses, which may result in decreased availability of, or increased price for, suitable acquisition candidates;. <U+0095>   we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any or all of our potential acquisitions;. <U+0095>   we may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition even if we announce that we plan to acquire a technology, product or business; and. <U+0095>   acquired technologies, products or businesses may not perform as we expect and we may fail to realize anticipated revenues and profits.. In addition, our acquisition strategy may divert management's attention away from our existing business, resulting in the loss of key customers or employees, and expose us to unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, including responsibility as a successor for undisclosed or contingent liabilities or acquired businesses or assets.. If we fail to conduct due diligence on our potential targets effectively, we may not identify problems at target companies or fail to recognize incompatibilities or other obstacles to successful integration. Our inability to successfully integrate future acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of those acquisitions and could severely weaken our business operations. The integration process may disrupt and, if new technologies, products or businesses are not implemented effectively, may preclude the realization of the full benefits expected by us and could harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of new technologies, products or businesses may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities and competitive responses. The difficulties in integrating acquisitions include, among other things:. <U+0095>   maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees;. <U+0095>   integrating the cultures of both companies;. <U+0095>   preserving important strategic customer relationships;. <U+0095>   consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; and. <U+0095>   coordinating and integrating geographically separate organizations.. In addition, even if we integrate successfully the operations of an acquisition, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies or growth opportunities we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.. Further, acquisitions may cause us to:. <U+0095>   issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership percentage;. <U+0095>   use a substantial portion of our cash resources;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt or contingent consideration to pay for an acquisition;. <U+0095>   assume liabilities for which we do not have indemnification from the former owners or we have disputed or uncollectible indemnification from the former owners;. <U+0095>   record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing and potential impairment charges;. <U+0095>   experience volatility in earnings due to changes in contingent consideration related to acquisition earn-out liability estimates;. <U+0095>   incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets;. <U+0095>   lose existing or potential contracts as a result of conflict of interest issues;. <U+0095>   become subject to adverse tax consequences or deferred compensation charges;. <U+0095>   incur large and immediate write-offs; or. <U+0095>   become subject to litigation.. Our customers may terminate many of our contracts on short notice without penalty, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Customers may switch service providers without incurring significant expense relative to the annual cost of the service. Our contracts generally provide that in the event of prolonged loss of service or for other good reasons, our customers may terminate service without penalty. In addition, some of our contracts may be terminated by our customers for no reason and upon short notice. Terms of contracts typically vary with a range from short-term call out work to three years. Work orders placed under such agreements may have shorter terms than the relevant customer agreement. As a result, we may not be able to retain our customers through the end of the terms specified in the contracts, resulting in harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our growth strategy requires substantial capital and acquisition expenditures. We may be unable to obtain required capital or financing on satisfactory terms.. To support our growth strategy, we expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures and acquisitions. We expect to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions with cash generated by operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility or capital markets transactions; however, our financing needs may require us to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. If additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. Our strategy of moving up the technology stack entails entering new business lines that could fail to attract or retain users or generate revenue.. A key element of our growth strategy is to move up the technology stack, that is to leverage our existing network to provide application layer solutions to our network customers. In 2017, we began reporting a new segment, Apps & IOT, to capture results from these new over-the-top services, such as SCADA, MetOcean and Adaptive Video Intelligence. In addition, in 2017, we acquired Cyphre which brings us a data protection offering, BlackTIE and CyphreLink. We continue to expect to invest in new lines of business, new products and other new initiatives to generate revenue, including our recently announced agreement to acquire Intelie. We have limited or no experience in our new market segments, and our customers may not adopt our new offerings. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. In addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may be lower than in our older activities, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. Furthermore, efforts at establishing new lines of business could divert management attention from our core Managed Services network and Systems Integration businesses. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. We rely on third parties, particularly satellite owners, to provide products and services for the operation of our business. Failures by third-party providers have caused, and in the future could cause, service interruptions, harm our business and reputation and result in loss of customers and revenue.. A significant part of our operations and growth depends on third-party providers delivering reliable communications connections, networks, equipment, maintenance, repair and satellite transponder capacity, subjecting our business, reputation and customer revenue to risks beyond our control, such as:. <U+0095>   telecommunications, satellite manufacturing, equipment or control system errors, faults or failures;. <U+0095>   saturation of communication connection points, networks and third-party facilities;. <U+0095>   in-orbit risks for satellites including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris;. <U+0095>   lack of communication service alternatives, including failure of satellite providers to timely replace aging satellites with more modern technology and updated capacities;. <U+0095>   human error;. <U+0095>   natural disasters;. <U+0095>   power loss;. <U+0095>   labor strikes or work stoppages;. <U+0095>   unauthorized access or security risks; and. <U+0095>   sabotage or other intentional acts of vandalism.. Our results in 2017 were negatively impacted by a satellite outage by one of our providers in the second quarter. This incident caused RigNet to lose forecasted revenues and to experience increased costs as we had to make alternative arrangements for our customers. We cannot assure that we will not suffer future satellite outages or that any potential future outage will not have a material impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Under most of our contracts with satellite service providers, our satellite service providers do not indemnify us for such loss or damage to our business resulting from certain risks, including satellite failures. If any potential claims result in liabilities, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties.. Failure of our microwave network could materially impact our results of operations.. Our microwave network is a Line-of-Site (LOS) system that operates by relaying microwave communications from one microwave site to another that must be within visible sight. When a microwave site on a microwave relay is rendered inoperable subsequent dependent sites are also rendered inoperable. As such the risk of a microwave site being rendered inoperable by weather, technical failure or other means will likely cascade to other dependent microwave sites. We do not insure for loss of a microwave site or business interruption caused by the loss of such a site as we believe the cost of such insurance outweighs the risk of potential loss, so the loss of a microwave site or any business interruption could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to anti-corruption and export control laws that have stringent compliance standards for us.. We are subject to a number of applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States as well as comparable laws of other countries. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to United States trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Asset Control of the United States Department of the Treasury or the United States Department of Commerce unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations. If our customers move their sites into countries subject to certain sanctions, we may not be able to serve them, in which case, our revenues will be adversely impacted and we may have additional costs incurred as well. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws that, generally, prohibit bribes or unreasonable gifts to governments or officials. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant additional sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, and more extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. In certain countries, we engage third-party agents or intermediaries to act on our behalf in dealings with government officials, such as customs agents, and if these third-party agents or intermediaries violate applicable laws, their actions may result in penalties or sanctions being assessed against us.. 16. Table of Contents. Many of our potential customers are resistant to new solutions and technologies which may limit our growth.. Although there is a strong focus on technology development within the oil and gas industry, some of the companies in the upstream oil and gas industry are relatively conservative and risk averse with respect to adopting new solutions and technologies in the area of remote communications. As a result of the sustained downturn in oil and gas prices, many of our customers focus on price rather than the value new technologies bring them, further slowing the uptake of new solutions and technologies. Some drilling contractors, oil and gas companies and oilfield service providers may choose not to adopt new solutions and technology, such as our remote communications and collaboration applications solutions, which may limit our growth potential.. Systems Integration projects are heavily dependent on cost, productivity, schedule and performance management.. We account for Systems Integration contracts using accounting rules for construction-type contracts. Factors that may affect future project costs and margins include the price and availability of labor, equipment and materials, productivity, as well as the time necessary to obtain approvals and permits. If we make inaccurate estimates, or we find errors or ambiguities as to contract specifications or if circumstances change due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, changes in local labor conditions, weather delays, changes in the costs of equipment and materials, or our suppliers' or subcontractors' inability to perform, or changes in foreign exchange rates, then cost overruns may occur. We may be required to pay liquidated damages upon our failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. In accordance with the accounting guidance, we would record a cumulative adjustment to reduce the margin previously recorded on the related project in the period a change in estimate is needed. If the contract is significant, or we encounter issues that impact multiple contracts, cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The uncertainty of our contract award timing can also present difficulties in matching workforce size with contract needs. In some cases, we maintain and bear the cost of a ready workforce that is larger than necessary under existing contracts in anticipation of future workforce needs for expected contract awards. If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we may incur additional costs resulting from reductions in staff or redundancy of facilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a new management team which may cause disruption in our business, particularly our core markets, and which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our executive officers have an average tenure with RigNet of approximately a year. Additionally, Charles \"Chip\" Schneider, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, departed the Company effective December 27, 2017. The high turnover in our executive ranks could negatively affect our relationships with key customers, particularly in our core managed services business, and our employee morale. Any such effects could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively small number of customers and the loss of any of these customers would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although we continue to diversify our customer base, we still receive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of large customers, among them being Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Bechtel Corporation, Ensco Plc, Noble Corporation Plc, Seadrill Ltd., Chevron, Baker Hughes, Veripos, Halliburton and Petrofac. Although none of these customers represents more than 10% of our annual revenue, should one or more of these customers terminate or significantly reduce their business with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. Recently Noble Corporation indicated that they will transition the managed communications services we provide to Noble to one of our competitors. Noble continues to be one of our top 5 customers, but we anticipate a loss of revenue from Noble accelerating in the latter half of 2018. If we cannot replace this lost revenue, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed.. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors.. We expect both product and pricing competition to persist and intensify. Increased competition could cause reduced revenue, price reductions, reduced profits and loss of market share. Our industry is characterized by competitive pressures to provide enhanced functionality for the same or lower price with each new generation of. 17. Table of Contents. technology. Our primary global competitor is Speedcast International Ltd. Recently Panasonic, through its ITC Global subsidiary, as well as Tampnet have begun to expand their presence as active providers of communications services to the oil and gas, mining and maritime markets. We also compete with regional competitors in the countries in which we operate. In addition, in certain markets outside of the U.S., we face competition from local competitors that provide their services at a lower price due to lower overhead costs, including lower costs of complying with applicable government regulations and their willingness to provide services for a lower profit margin. Strong competition and significant investments by competitors to develop new and better solutions may make it difficult for us to maintain our customer base, force us to reduce our prices or increase our costs to develop new solutions.. Furthermore, competition may emerge from companies that we have previously not perceived as competitors or consolidation of our industry may cause existing competitors to become bigger and stronger with more resources, market awareness and market share. For example, we have experienced customer projects where we have bid directly against some of our satellite bandwidth providers, either acting alone or in conjunction with one of our direct competitors. Competition with our satellite bandwidth providers, either alone or in restrictive arrangements with our suppliers or competitors may materially and adversely affect the availability and pricing of our products and services.. As we expand into new markets we may experience increased competition from some of our competitors that have prior experience or other business in these markets or geographic regions. In addition, some of our customers may decide to insource some of the communications services and managed services solutions that we provide, in particular our terrestrial communication services (e.g., LOS or WiMAX), which do not require the same level of maintenance and support as our other services. Our success will depend on our ability to adapt to these competitive forces, to adapt to technological advances, to develop more advanced services and solutions more rapidly and less expensively than our competitors, to continue to develop and deepen our global sales and business development network, and to educate potential customers about the benefits of using our solutions rather than our competitors' services or in sourced solutions. Our failure to successfully respond to these competitive challenges could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our international operations are subject to additional or different risks than our United States operations, which may harm our business and financial results.. We operate in many countries around the world, including countries in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Europe and intend to continue to expand the number of countries in which we operate. However, because operations in some countries may be temporary, the total number of countries in which we operate fluctuates. There are many risks inherent in conducting business internationally that are in addition to or different than those affecting our United States operations, including:. <U+0095>   legal, regulatory and cultural differences that may be vague or arbitrary, lack traditional concepts of due process or awareness of United States laws, resulting in difficulty enforcing contracts or timely collection of receivables and may be subject to unexpected changes or interpretations;. <U+0095>   tariffs, import and export restrictions and other trade barriers;. <U+0095>   difficulty in staffing and managing geographically dispersed operations and culturally diverse work forces in countries with varying employment laws and practices including restrictions on terminating employees;. <U+0095>   increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;. <U+0095>   differing technology standards;. <U+0095>   currency exchange rate fluctuation and currency controls;. <U+0095>   potential political and economic instability, which may include military conflict, nationalization or expropriation;. <U+0095>   potentially adverse tax consequences;. <U+0095>   difficulties and expense of maintaining international sales distribution channels; and. <U+0095>   difficulties in maintaining and protecting our intellectual property.. The authorities in the countries where we operate may introduce additional regulations for the oil and gas and communications industries. New rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be applied or interpreted in a manner which could limit our ability to provide our services. Amendments to current laws and. 18. Table of Contents. regulations governing operations and activities in the oil and gas industry and telecommunications industry could harm our operations and financial results. Compliance with and changes in tax laws or adverse positions taken by taxing authorities could be costly and could affect our operating results.. Compliance related tax issues could also limit our ability to do business in certain countries. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various taxing authorities, disagreements with taxing authorities over our tax positions and the ability to fully utilize our tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits could have a significant financial impact on our future operations and the way we conduct, or if we conduct, business in the affected countries.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any failure or inability to sufficiently protect them could harm our business and our operating results.. We own, and maintain certain intellectual property assets, including patents, patent applications, copyright and trademarks, trade secrets, and rights to certain domain names, which we believe are collectively among our most valuable assets. We seek to protect our intellectual property assets through the laws of the U.S. and other countries of the world, and through contractual provisions. However, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property assets and proprietary rights might not be sufficient or effective at stopping unauthorized use of those rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our intellectual property assets may be reduced.. We compete for satellite capacity for our services and any capacity constraints could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In certain markets, the availability and pricing of capacity could be subject to competitive pressure. We may be unable to secure the capacity needed at competitive prices to conduct our operations, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In certain markets, the availability of bandwidth may be restricted by local governments when needed to support military operations, and in the event of such an action, there is no guarantee that we will be able to secure the capacity needed to meet our contractual commitments to our customers.. Restructuring activities may negatively impact the Company.. Reductions in resources may adversely affect or delay various sales, marketing, product development and operational activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Additionally, restructuring activities could have negative effects on our internal control over financial reporting and employee morale.. Information technology infrastructure and systems are critical to supporting our operations, accounting and internal controls; any potential failure of our information technology infrastructure or systems could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. We continue to update and enhance our information systems. If a problem occurs that impairs or compromises this infrastructure, systems upgrades and/or new systems implementations, the resulting disruption could impede our ability to perform accounting, invoice, process orders, generate management reports or otherwise carry on business in the normal course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers and/or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to remediate. Additionally, any such events could adversely harm our legal, accounting and compliance capabilities including but not limited to: our ability to timely file reports with the SEC; timely file financial statements required by certain statutes; timely file compliance reports with our lenders under our credit agreement; and timely file income taxes with the IRS, foreign taxing authorities, and local taxing authorities.. Bad weather in the Gulf of Mexico or other areas where we operate could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico and other areas in which our clients operate experience unfavorable weather conditions, including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions, on a relatively frequent basis. A major storm or threat of a major storm in these areas may harm our business. Our clients' drilling rigs, production platforms and other vessels in these areas are susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms, which may cause them to no longer need our communication services. Our equipment on these rigs, platforms or vessels could be damaged causing us to have service interruptions and lose business or incur significant costs for the replacement of such equipment. Even the threat of a very large storm will sometimes cause our clients to limit activities in an area and thus harm our business.. 19. Table of Contents. Changing weather conditions could impair satellite connectivity, cause more sites to be shut down and generally cause activities to be limited so that our business may be harmed. This risk is more pronounced for LOS microwave service, as there is a likely loss of service for multiple subsequent microwave sites in the network relay.. Changes in the regulatory framework under which we operate could adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations.. Our U.S. services are provided on a private carrier basis. As such, these services are subject to light or no regulation by the FCC and state PUCs. If the FCC or one or more PUCs or any other telecommunications regulator determine that these services or the services of our subsidiaries or affiliates constitute common carrier offerings or change the regulations applicable to private carriers, we may be subject to significant costs to ensure compliance with the applicable provisions of those laws and regulations. We may be subject to enforcement actions including, but not limited to, fines, cease and desist orders, or other penalties if we fail to comply with those requirements.. Our international operations are also regulated by various non-U.S. governments and international bodies. These regulatory regimes frequently require that we maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards and requirements. The adoption of new laws or regulations, changes to the existing regulatory framework, new interpretations of the laws that apply to our operations, or the loss of, or a material limitation on, any of our material licenses could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we infringe, or if third parties assert that we infringe, third-party intellectual property rights we could incur significant costs and incur significant harm to our business.. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, which could result in substantial damages if it is ultimately determined that our services infringe a third-party's proprietary rights. Even if claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management's attention from our other business concerns.. Many of our contracts are governed by the laws of countries that may make them difficult or expensive to interpret or enforce.. Many of our contracts are governed by the laws of countries other than the U.S., which may create both legal and practical difficulties in case of a dispute or conflict. We operate in regions where the ability to protect contractual and other legal rights may be limited. In addition, having to pursue arbitration or litigation in some countries may be more difficult or expensive than pursuing litigation in the United States.. Some of our stockholders could exert control over our Company.. As of February 20, 2018, funds associated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR, owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 26.1% of our outstanding voting power. Additionally, as of February 20, 2018, funds associated with Arrowpoint Asset Management, LLC, owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 15.4% of our outstanding voting power. As a result, any of these stockholders could potentially have significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election or removal of our directors and change of control transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock.. We are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and limitations on the expatriation or conversion of currencies, which may result in significant financial charges, increased costs of operations or decreased demand for our services and solutions.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, 9.3% of our revenues were earned in non-U.S. currencies, while a significant portion of our capital and operating expenditures and all of our outstanding debt, was priced in U.S. dollars. In addition, we report our results of operations in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material effect on our reported earnings or the value of our assets. In the future, a greater portion of our revenues may be earned in non-U.S. currencies, increasing this risk of fluctuations in exchange rates.. 20. Table of Contents. Any depreciation of local currencies in the countries in which we conduct business may result in increased costs to us for imported equipment and may, at the same time, decrease demand for our services and solutions in the affected markets. If our operating companies distribute dividends in local currencies in the future, the amount of cash we receive will also be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. In addition, some of the countries in which we have operations do or may restrict the expatriation or conversion of currency making such cash unavailable for financing of our global operations and capital investments.. Furthermore, a majority of our cash balances are held outside of the United States. Were we to repatriate this cash to the United States we may have to pay taxes in one or more countries making the cash available to us less than that reported in our financial statements.. The average daily trading volume of our common stock is low which can cause volatility in its price unrelated to our actual operations and performance.. The average daily trading volume of our stock is approximately 30 thousand shares. Due to the low trading volume our stock may be subject to more market volatility, without regard to our performance. Stock price volatility and sustained decreases in our share price could subject our stockholders to losses and subject us to takeover bids or lead to action by NASDAQ. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095>   quarterly announcements and variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors, either alone or in comparison to analysts' expectations or prior Company estimates, including announcements of site counts, rates of churn, and operating margins that would result in downward pressure on our stock price;. <U+0095>   the cost and availability or perceived availability of additional capital and market perceptions relating to our access to this capital;. <U+0095>   announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new products or technologies;. <U+0095>   recommendations by securities analysts or changes in their estimates concerning us;. <U+0095>   changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets;. <U+0095>   any significant change in our board of directors or management; and. <U+0095>   perceptions of general market conditions in the technology and communications and oil and gas industries, the U.S. economy and global market conditions.. 21. Table of Contents"
