[1] "ITEM 1A:RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider each of the risks described below before purchasing our common shares. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect our business. Our business could also be affected by additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Information in this section may be considered “forward-looking statements.” See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of certain qualifications regarding such statements.. Damage to our reputation could harm our business.. One of our founding principles is that we operate a fair and transparent business, and consistently act with integrity.  Maintaining a positive reputation is key to our ability to attract and maintain customers, investors and employees.  Damage to our reputation could cause significant harm to our business.  Harm to our reputation could arise in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, employee conduct which is not aligned with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (and associated Company policies around behavioural expectations) or our Company’s core values, safety incidents, failure to maintain customer service standards, loss of trust in the fairness of our sales processes, and other technology or compliance failures.. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of, and synergies from, the Acquisition and may become responsible for certain liabilities and integration costs as a result.. Business acquisitions involve the integration of new businesses that have previously operated independently from us. The integration of our operations with those of IronPlanet is expected to result in financial and operational benefits, as well as operating synergies. There can be no assurance, however, regarding when or the extent to which we will be able to realize these and other benefits. Integration may also be difficult, unpredictable, and subject to delay because of possible company culture conflicts and different opinions on future business development.. Ritchie Bros.13. We may be required to integrate or, in some cases, replace, numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory compliance, many of which may be dissimilar. Difficulties associated with the integration of acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Even if we are able to successfully integrate the operations of Ritchie Bros. and IronPlanet, we may not realize the full benefits that we anticipate. If we achieve the expected benefits, they may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame. Also, the benefits from the Acquisition may be offset by costs incurred in integrating Ritchie Bros. and IronPlanet, increases in other expenses, operating losses or problems in the business unrelated to the Acquisition. As a result, there can be no assurance that such synergies or other benefits will be achieved.. In addition, in connection with the Acquisition, we have assumed, and may assume in connection with future acquisitions, certain potential liabilities. To the extent such liabilities are not identified by us or to the extent indemnifications obtained from third parties are insufficient to cover such liabilities, these liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the Acquisition, and the degree to which we are leveraged may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the Acquisition. As of December 31, 2017, we have $819.9 million of total debt outstanding, consisting of $335.9 million under a new five-year credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders entered into on October 27, 2016 (the “New Facilities”), and $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior unsecured notes issued December 21, 2016 (the “Notes”), partially reduced by $16.8 million of unamortized debt issue costs, as well as $0.8 million under our foreign credit facilities. There is $637.8 million of availability under the New Facilities.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the debt incurred pursuant to the Acquisition as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not generate sufficient funds to service our debt and meet our business needs, such as funding working capital or the expansion of our operations. If we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to take certain actions, including reducing spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation, reducing future financing for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, selling assets or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. In addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in our industry, including both the live and online auction industry, could be impaired.. The lenders who hold our debt could also accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt.. In addition, our substantial leverage could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged. These competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions and secure additional financing for their operations. Our substantial leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy in general.. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Notes will limit, but not prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness. If we incur any additional indebtedness that has the same priority as the Notes and the guarantees thereof, the holders of that indebtedness will be entitled to share rateably with the holders of the Notes and the guarantees thereof in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us.. Ritchie Bros.14. Subject to restrictions in the Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Notes, we also will have the ability to incur additional secured indebtedness that would be effectively senior to the Notes offered hereby, to the extent of the value of the assets securing such obligations. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. Our debt instruments have restrictive covenants that could limit our financial flexibility.. The terms of the Credit Agreement, as well as the indenture governing the Notes, contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to borrow under our New Facilities is subject to compliance with a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and a consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant.. The Credit Agreement includes other restrictions that limit our ability in certain circumstances to: incur indebtedness; grant liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and liquidations; make asset dispositions, restricted payments and investments; enter into transactions with affiliates; and amend, modify or prepay certain indebtedness. The indenture governing the Notes contains covenants that limit our ability in certain circumstances to:. ·incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof);. ·incur or create liens on their assets securing indebtedness;. ·make certain restricted payments;. ·make certain investments;. ·dispose of certain assets;. ·allow to exist certain restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us;. ·engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and. ·consolidate, amalgamate or merge with or into other companies.. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our funded debt. We do not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness.. Competition in our core markets could result in reductions in our future revenues and profitability.. The global used equipment market, including the auction segment of that market, is highly fragmented. We compete for potential purchasers and sellers of equipment with other auction companies and with non-auction competitors such as equipment manufacturers, distributors and dealers, equipment rental companies, and other online marketplaces. When sourcing equipment to sell at our auctions or other marketplaces, we compete with other on site and online auction companies, Original Equipment Manufacturer (“OEM”) and independent dealers, equipment brokers, other third parties, and equipment owners that have traditionally disposed of equipment in private sales.. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources and name recognition than we do. New competitors with greater financial and other resources may enter the equipment auction market in the future. Additionally, existing or future competitors may succeed in entering and establishing successful operations in new geographic markets prior to our entry into those markets. They may also compete against us through internet-based services and other combined service offerings.. If commission rates decline, or if our strategy to compete against our many competitors is not effective, our revenues, market share, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. We may be susceptible to loss of business if competing models become more appealing to customers. If our selling model becomes undesirable or we are not successful in adding services complementary to our existing selling model and business, we may not be successful increasing market penetration over the long-term, which could prevent us from achieving our long-term earnings growth targets.. Ritchie Bros.15. Our relationships with key long-term customers may be materially diminished or terminated.. We have long-standing and/or strategic relationships with a number of our customers and business partners, many of whom could unilaterally terminate their relationship with us or materially reduce the amount of business they conduct with us at any time.  Market competition, business requirements and financial conditions could adversely affect our ability to continue or expand our relationships with our customers and business partners. There is no guarantee that we will be able to retain or renew existing agreements, or maintain relationships with any of our customers or business partners, on acceptable terms or at all.  The loss of one or more of our major customers or business partners could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Decreases in the supply of, demand for, or market values of used equipment, could harm our business.. Our revenues could decrease if there was significant erosion in the supply of, demand for, or market values of used equipment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have no control over any of the factors that affect the supply of, and demand for, used equipment, and the circumstances that cause market values for equipment to fluctuate —  including, among other things, economic uncertainty, disruptions to credit and financial markets, lower commodity prices, and our customers’ restricted access to capital — are beyond our control. Recent economic conditions have caused fluctuations in the supply, mix and market values of used equipment available for sale, which has a direct impact on our revenues.. In addition, price competition and the availability of equipment directly affect the supply of, demand for, and market value of used equipment. Climate change initiatives, including significant changes to engine emission standards applicable to equipment, may also adversely affect the supply of, demand for or market values of equipment.. We may incur losses as a result of our guarantee and inventory contracts and advances to consignors.. Our most common type of auction contract is a straight commission contract, under which we earn a pre-negotiated, fixed commission rate on the gross sales price of the consigned equipment at auction. Straight commission contracts are used by us when we act as agent for consignors. In recent years, a majority of our annual business has been conducted on a straight commission basis. In certain other situations, we will enter into underwritten transactions and either offer to:. ·guarantee a minimum level of sale proceeds to the consignor, regardless of the ultimate selling price of the consignment at the auction; or. ·purchase the equipment outright from the seller for sale in a particular auction.. We determine the level of guaranteed proceeds or inventory purchase price based on appraisals performed on equipment by our internal personnel. Inaccurate appraisals could result in guarantees or inventory values that exceed the realizable auction proceeds. In addition, a change in market values could also result in guarantee or inventory values exceeding the realizable auction proceeds. If auction proceeds are less than the guaranteed amount, our commission will be reduced and we could potentially incur a loss, and, if auction proceeds are less than the purchase price we paid for equipment that we take into inventory temporarily, we will incur a loss. Because a majority of our auctions are unreserved, there is no way for us to protect against these types of losses by bidding on or acquiring any of the items at such auctions. In addition, we do not hold inventory indefinitely waiting for market conditions to improve. If our exposure to underwritten contracts increases, this risk would be compounded.. Occasionally, we advance to consignors a portion of the estimated auction proceeds prior to the auction. We generally make these advances only after taking possession of the assets to be auctioned and upon receipt of a security interest in the assets to secure the obligation. If we were unable to auction the assets or if auction proceeds were less than amounts advanced, we could incur a loss.. Ritchie Bros.16. The availability and performance of our technology infrastructure, including our websites, is critical to our business.. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, enterprise resource planning system, processing systems and network infrastructure are important to our reputation and our business. Our systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of hardware or software defects or malfunctions, computer denial of service, cyber events, human error and natural events beyond our control. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our recovery planning may not be sufficient for all possible disruptions.. Further, we will need to continue to expand, integrate, consolidate, and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure both to meet increased usage of our online bidding service and other services offered on our websites, to implement new features and functions and as a result of the Acquisition. Our business and results of operations could be harmed if we were unable to expand and upgrade in a timely manner our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in the use of our internet services, or if we were to lose access to or the functionality of our internet systems for any reason, especially if such loss of service prevented internet bidders from effectively participating in one of our auctions. Frequent, persistent or ill-timed interruptions to our internet services could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, which could lead to the loss of customers and harm our reputation.. We use both internally developed and licensed systems for transaction processing and accounting, including billings and collections processing. We continually upgrade and improve these systems to accommodate growth in our business. If we are unsuccessful in continuing to upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems or network infrastructure to accommodate increased transaction volumes, it could harm our operations and interfere with our ability to expand our business.. If the mobile solutions available to consumers are not effective, the use of our technology platform could decline.. Visits and purchases made on mobile devices by consumers have increased in recent years. The smaller screen size and reduced functionality associated with some mobile devices may make the use of a technology platform more difficult or less appealing to customers. Visits to our marketplaces on mobile devices may not convert into purchases as often as visits made through personal computers, which could result in less revenue for us.. Further, although we strive to provide engaging mobile experiences for customers who visit our mobile websites using a browser on their mobile device, as new mobile devices and mobile platforms are released, we may encounter problems in developing or supporting applications for them. In addition, supporting new devices and mobile device operating systems may require substantial time and resources. The success of our mobile applications could also be harmed by factors outside our control, such as:. ·actions taken by providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application, or app, download stores;. ·unfavorable treatment received by our mobile apps, especially as compared to competing apps, such as the placement of our mobile apps in a mobile app download store;. ·increased costs to distribute or have customers use our mobile apps; or. ·changes in mobile operating systems, such as iOS and Android, that degrade the functionality of our mobile websites or mobile apps or that give preferential treatment to competitive products.. If customers encounter difficulty accessing or using our technology platform on their mobile devices, or if sellers and buyers choose not to use our technology platform on their mobile devices, our growth prospects and our business may be adversely affected.. A deterioration of general macroeconomic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business.. Our performance is subject to macroeconomic conditions and their impact on customer spending. Adverse macroeconomic conditions typically result in a general tightening in credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increased default and bankruptcy rates, and depressed levels of activity and investment.. Ritchie Bros.17. Challenging macroeconomic conditions may have a negative impact on the operations, financial condition and liquidity of many customers and, as a result, may negatively impact the volume of equipment listed for sale and the prices of equipment sold in our marketplace, thereby having a negative impact on our revenue and ability to grow our business. If sellers choose not to sell their assets as a result of adverse economic conditions, buyers are unable to purchase equipment based on their inability to obtain sufficient financing or are unwilling to do so given the market climate, or if customers are in general financial distress, our operations may be negatively affected and revenue from our marketplace may decrease.. Our ability to provide a high quality customer experience may depend on third parties and external factors over which we may have little or no control.. Our ability to provide a high quality and efficient customer experience is also dependent on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including, without limitation, the reliability and performance of the equipment sold in our marketplaces and the performance of third-party carriers who transport purchased equipment on behalf of buyers. If our customers are dissatisfied with the accuracy of our appraisals and inspections, the quality of the business insights provided by our other value-added services, or do not receive the equipment they purchased in a timely manner or in the condition that they expect, customers may stop using us to purchase equipment. Failure to provide customers with high quality and efficient customer experiences could substantially harm our reputation and adversely impact our efforts to develop customer and industry trust in our brands.. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes in this or other regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as certain federal, provincial, state and local laws, rules and regulations, including those governing the internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the internet, e-commerce or other services, and increase the cost of doing business, including providing online auction services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, and other communications, consumer protection, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales, use and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Changes to regulations and unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our business and results of operations.. Our future expenses may increase significantly and our operations and ability to expand may be limited as a result of environmental and other regulations.. A variety of federal, provincial, state and local laws, rules and regulations throughout the world, including local tax and accounting rules, apply to our business. These relate to, among other things, the auction business, imports and exports of equipment, property ownership laws, licensing, worker safety, privacy of customer information, land use and the use, storage, discharge and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Complying with revisions to laws, rules and regulations could result in an increase in expenses and a deterioration of our financial performance. Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations could result in substantial liability to us, suspension or cessation of some or all of our operations, restrictions on our ability to expand at present locations or into new locations, requirements for the acquisition of additional equipment or other significant expenses or restrictions.. The development or expansion of auction sites depends upon receipt of required licenses, permits and other governmental authorizations. Our inability to obtain these required items could harm our business. Additionally, changes or concessions required by regulatory authorities could result in significant delays in, or prevent completion of, such development or expansion.. Under some environmental laws, an owner or lessee of, or other person involved in, real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances located on or in, or emanating from, the real estate, and related costs of investigation and property damage. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner, lessee or other person knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.. Ritchie Bros.18. Environmental contamination may exist at our owned or leased auction sites, or at other sites on which we may conduct auctions, or properties that we may be selling by auction, from prior activities at these locations or from neighboring properties.. In addition, auction sites that we acquire or lease in the future may be contaminated, and future use of or conditions on any of our properties or sites could result in contamination. The costs related to claims arising from environmental contamination of any of these properties could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. There are restrictions in the United States, Canada and Europe and other jurisdictions in which we do business that may affect the ability of equipment owners to transport certain equipment between specified jurisdictions or the saleability of older equipment. One example of these restrictions is environmental certification requirements in the United States, which prevent non-certified equipment from entering into commerce in the United States. In addition, engine emission standards in some jurisdictions limit the operation of certain trucks and equipment in those markets.. These restrictions, or changes to environmental laws, including laws in response to climate change, could inhibit materially the ability of customers to ship equipment to or from our auction sites, reducing our GTV and harming our business, financial condition and results of operations.. International bidders and consignors could be deterred from participating in our auctions if governmental bodies impose additional export or import regulations or additional duties, taxes or other charges on exports or imports. Reduced participation by international bidders and consignors could reduce GTV and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our substantial international operations expose us to foreign exchange rate fluctuations that could harm our results of operations.. We conduct business in many countries around the world and intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets, including emerging markets. Fluctuating currency exchange rates may negatively affect our business in international markets and our related results of operations.. Although we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are generated outside the United States, primarily in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In particular, a significant portion of our revenues are earned, and expenses incurred, in the Canadian dollar and the Euro. As a result, our financial results are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging arrangements, and, consequently, foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations.. The results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased U.S. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar and the Euro, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower U.S. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted revenues by $3.2 million in 2017, and negatively by $6.8 million and $40.5 million, respectively, in 2016 and 2015.. In addition, currency exchange rate fluctuations between the different countries in which we conduct our operations impact the purchasing power of buyers, the motivation of consignors, asset values and asset flows between various countries, including those in which we do not have operations. These factors and other global economic conditions may harm our business and our results of operations.. Ritchie Bros.19. Our business is subject to the risks of operating internationally.. We operate in a large number of international jurisdictions. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including, but not limited to:. ·trade barriers, trade regulations, currency controls, import or export regulations, and other restrictions on doing business freely;. ·local labor, environmental, tax, and other laws and regulations, and uncertainty or adverse changes in such laws and regulations or the interpretations thereof;. ·difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. ·economic, political, social or labor instability or unrest, or changes in conditions;. ·terrorism, war, hostage-taking, or military repression;. ·corruption;. ·expropriation and nationalization;. ·high rates of inflation; and. ·uncertainty as to litigation in foreign jurisdictions and enforcement of local laws.. If we violate the complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, we may face fines, criminal actions or sanctions, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. These risks inherent in our international operations increase our costs of doing business internationally and may result in a material adverse effect on our operations or profitability.. Our business operations may be subject to a number of federal and local laws, rules and regulations including export control regulations.. Our business operations may be subject to a number of federal and local laws, rules and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR, maintained by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, maintained by the U.S. Department of State, economic sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, and similar regulations in Canada and the European Union (“EU”). We have implemented procedures regarding compliance with these laws, including monitoring, on an automatic and manual basis, the potential sellers and buyers in our marketplace and restricting business from certain countries. We can offer no assurances that these procedures will always be effective.. We have implemented certain processes and procedures to prevent sellers and buyers that are located in a prohibited jurisdiction or are prohibited persons from participating in our marketplaces. Such processes and procedures are designed so that our business is in compliance with OFAC-administered sanctions regulations and other applicable sanction regulations, including those in Canada and the E.U.. If we were to violate applicable export control or sanctions regulations, we could be subject to administrative or criminal penalties which, in certain circumstances, could be material. We could be subject to damages, financial penalties, denial of export privileges, incarceration of our employees, other restrictions on our operations, and reputational harm. Further, any action on the part of the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, OFAC or other applicable regulator against the company or any of our employees for potential violations of these laws could have a negative impact on our reputation and business, which might decrease stockholder value.. Ritchie Bros.20. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, or the CFPOA, and similar laws associated with our activities outside of the United States could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the FCPA, the CFPOA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. §201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010, or the U.K. Bribery Act, and possibly other anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we conduct activities or facilitate the buying and selling of equipment. We face significant risks if we fail to comply with the FCPA, the CFPOA and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws that prohibit companies and their employees and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to foreign government officials, political parties or candidates, employees of public international organizations, and private-sector recipients for the corrupt purpose of obtaining or retaining business, directing business to any person, or securing any advantage. In many foreign countries, particularly in countries with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses engage in practices that are prohibited by the FCPA, the CFPOA or other applicable laws and regulations. In addition, we leverage various third parties to sell our solutions and conduct our business abroad. We, our channel partners, and our other third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and other corporate policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, which often carry substantial penalties.. Any violation of the FCPA, other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws, and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions and, in the case of the FCPA, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, which could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and prospects. In addition, responding to any enforcement action may result in a materially significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees.. We are pursuing a long-term growth strategy that includes acquisitions and developing and enhancing an appropriate sales strategy, which requires upfront investment with no guarantee of long-term returns.. We continue to pursue a long-term growth strategy, including developing and enhancing an appropriate sales strategy, that contemplates upfront investments, including (i) investments in emerging markets that may not generate profitable growth in the near term, (ii) adding new business and information solutions, and (iii) developing our people. Planning for future growth requires investments to be made now in anticipation of growth that may not materialize, and if our strategies do not successfully address the needs of current and potential customers, we may not be successful in maintaining or growing our GTV and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. We may also not be able to improve our systems and controls as a result of increased costs, technological challenges, or lack of qualified employees. A large component of our selling, general and administrative expenses is considered fixed costs that we will incur regardless of any GTV growth. There can be no assurances that our GTV and revenues will be maintained or grow at a more rapid rate than our fixed costs.. Part of our growth strategy includes growth through acquisitions, such as the Acquisition, which poses a number of risks. We may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates, consummating acquisitions on satisfactory terms or integrating any newly acquired or expanded business with our current operations. Additionally, significant costs may be incurred in connection with any acquisition and our integration of such businesses with our business, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs. We may also not realize the anticipated benefits of, and synergies from, such acquisition. We cannot guarantee that any future business acquisitions will be pursued, that any acquisitions that are pursued will be consummated, or that we will achieve the anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions.. Ritchie Bros.21. Our business is subject to risks relating to our ability to safeguard our information systems, including the cyber-security and privacy of our customers’ confidential information.. We rely on information technology to manage our business, including maintaining proprietary databases containing sensitive and confidential information about our customers, suppliers, counterparties and employees (which may include personally identifiable information and credit information). An increasing number of websites have disclosed cyber breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their websites or infrastructure. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently, we may not be able to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities, fraud, trickery or other means of deceiving our employees or contractors. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our customers’ confidential information, cause interruption to our operations, damage our computing infrastructure or otherwise damage our reputation. Although we maintain information security measures, there can be no assurance that we will be immune from these security risks, and any breach of our information security may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Under credit card payment rules and our contracts with credit card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. We may also be held liable for certain fraudulent credit card transactions and other payment disputes with customers. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Security breaches could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in the security of our services and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability for damages. We may be required to make significant expenditures to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. These issues are likely to become costlier as we expand. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches, and we may not be able to fully collect, if at all, under these insurance policies.. Income and commodity tax amounts, including tax expense, may be materially different than expected.. Our global operations are subject to tax interpretations, regulations, and legislation in the numerous jurisdictions in which we operate, all of which are subject to continual change.. We accrue and pay income taxes and have significant income tax assets, liabilities, and expense that are estimates based primarily on the application of those interpretations, regulations and legislation, and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our estimates and reserves are sufficient. The timing concerning the monetization of deferred income tax amounts is uncertain, as they are dependent on our future earnings and other events. Our deferred income tax amounts are valued based upon substantively enacted income tax rates in effect at the time, which can be changed by governments in the future.. The audit and review activities of tax authorities affect the ultimate determination of the actual amounts of commodity taxes payable or receivable, income taxes payable or receivable, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, and income tax expense.. There is no assurance that taxes will be payable as anticipated or that the amount or timing of receipt or use of the tax-related assets will be as currently expected. Our experience indicates that taxation authorities are increasing the frequency and depth of audits and reviews and, while our approach to accounting for tax positions has generally been deemed appropriate through recent audits by taxation authorities, future tax authority determinations could have a material impact to our financial position.. Ritchie Bros.22. The effects of newly enacted U.S. tax legislation have not yet been fully analyzed and could be materially different from our current estimates.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. tax legislation known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA, was signed into law, significantly reforming the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a “worldwide” system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. The TCJA added a minimum tax on a U.S. corporation’s taxable income after adding back certain deductible payments to non-U.S. affiliates. In addition, the TCJA disallows deductions for interest and royalty payments from U.S. companies to non-U.S. affiliates that are hybrid payments or made to hybrid entities. We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities will be revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact will be recognized in our tax expense in the year of enactment. The impact of the TCJA on holders of common shares is uncertain and could be adverse.. Losing the services of one or more key personnel could materially affect our business and require us to incur substantial additional costs to recruit replacement personnel.. The growth and performance of our business depends to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and senior managers. Many of our key executives have extensive experience with our business. These officers have knowledge and an understanding of our company and industry that cannot be readily duplicated. The loss of any member of our senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose customers and reduce our revenues.. Our business could be harmed if we lost the services of any of these individuals. We do not maintain key person insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers. As a result, we would have no way to cover the financial loss if we were to lose the services of members of our senior management team. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees.. If any of our key personnel were to join a competitor or form a competing company, existing and potential customers could choose to form business relationships with that competitor instead of us. There can be no assurance that confidentiality, non-solicitation, non-competition or similar agreements signed by our former directors, officers, or employees, or by IronPlanet stockholders or our transactional counterparties, will be effective in preventing a loss of business.. Our future success largely depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain skilled employees in all areas of our business, as well as to design an appropriate organization structure and plan effectively for succession. Although we actively manage our human resource risks, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. If we fail to attract, develop and retain skilled employees in all areas of our business, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and we may not achieve our growth or performance objectives.. We are regularly subject to general litigation and other claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are subject to general litigation and other claims that arise in the ordinary course of our business. The outcome and impact of such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, but regardless of the outcome, these proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. While the results of these claims have not historically had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we may not be able to defend ourselves adequately against these claims in the future, and these proceedings may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. In addition to other legal proceedings, we may also be subject to intellectual property claims, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the Internet and technology industries are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights.. Ritchie Bros.23. We periodically receive notices that claim we have infringed, misappropriated, or misused other parties’ intellectual property rights. To the extent we gain greater public recognition, we may face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property claims.. Third-party intellectual property rights may cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods or block us from expanding our offerings. Any intellectual property claim against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert the attention of our management. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is inherently uncertain due to the complex issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves in such matters.. Many potential litigants, including some patent holding companies, have the ability to dedicate substantial resources to enforcing their intellectual property rights. Any claims successfully brought against us could subject us to significant liability for damages, and we may be required to stop using technology or other intellectual property alleged to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We also might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties or submit to unreasonable terms, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant time and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any allegedly infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our service and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could harm our business.. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our growth prospects.. We regard our proprietary technologies and intellectual property as integral to our success. We protect our proprietary technology through a combination of trade secrets, third-party confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, additional contractual restrictions on disclosure and use, and patent, copyright, and trademark laws.. We currently are the registered owners of many Internet domain names internationally. As we seek to protect our domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, we may not be successful in doing so in certain jurisdictions. Our competitors may adopt trade names or domain names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to promote our marketplace and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, we could face trade name or trademark or service mark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered or unregistered trademarks or service marks, including trademarks or service marks that may incorporate variations of our brand names. The legal means we use to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property do not afford complete protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. We cannot guarantee that any of our present or future intellectual property rights will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or abandoned; our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us; our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against potential competitors or to settle current or future disputes will not be limited by our agreements with third parties; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; or our intellectual property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where competition may be intense or where legal protection may be weak.. We also may allow certain of our registered intellectual property rights, or our pending applications or registrations for intellectual property rights, to lapse or to become abandoned if we determine that obtaining or maintaining the applicable registered intellectual property rights is not worthwhile.. Further, although it is our practice to enter into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, these agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements.. Ritchie Bros.24. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy, reverse engineer, or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. We cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent unauthorized use of our technology or infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights. Effective patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, trade secret, and domain name protection is time-consuming and expensive to maintain. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, our efforts may be met with defenses and counterclaims challenging the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights or may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. If we are unable to cost-effectively protect our intellectual property rights, then our business could be harmed. If competitors are able to use our technology or develop proprietary technology similar to ours or competing technologies, our ability to compete effectively and our growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We are subject to the terms of open source licenses because our technology platform incorporates open source software.. Some of the software powering our marketplace incorporates software covered by open source licenses. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts and there is a risk that the licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to operate our marketplace. Under certain open source licenses, we could be required to publicly release the source code of our software or to make our software available under open source licenses. To avoid the public release of the affected portions of our source code, we could be required to expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer some or all of our software which could significantly interrupt our operations.. In addition, use of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Use of open source software may also present additional security risks because the public availability of this software may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to compromise our technology platform. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage and, if not addressed, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business continuity plan may not operate effectively in the event of a significant interruption of our business.. We depend on our information and other systems and processes for the continuity and effective operation of our business. We have implemented a formal business continuity plan covering most significant aspects of our business that would take effect in the event of a significant interruption to our business, or the loss of key systems as a result of a natural or other disaster. Although we have tested our business continuity plan as part of the implementation, there can be no assurance that it will operate effectively or that our business, results of operations and financial condition will not be materially affected in the event of a significant interruption of our business.. If we were subject to a disaster or serious security breach, it could materially damage our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur as a result of our operations.. We maintain property and general liability insurance. This insurance may not remain available to us at commercially reasonable rates, and the amount of our coverage may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. Our auctions generally involve the operation of large equipment close to a large number of people, and despite our focus on safe work practices, an accident could damage our facilities or injure auction attendees. Any major accident could harm our reputation and our business. In addition, if we were held liable for amounts exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage or for claims outside the scope of our coverage, the resulting costs could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. Ritchie Bros.25. Certain global conditions may affect our ability to conduct successful events.. Like most businesses with global operations, we are subject to the risk of certain global conditions, such as pandemics or other disease outbreaks or natural disasters that could hinder our ability to conduct our scheduled auctions, restrict our customers’ travel patterns or their desire to attend auctions or impact our online operations, including disrupting the Internet or mobile networks or one or more of our service providers. If this situation were to occur, we may not be able to generate sufficient equipment consignments to sustain our business or to attract enough bidders to our auctions to achieve world fair market values for the items we sell. This could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operating results are subject to quarterly variations.. Historically, our revenues and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter. We expect to continue to experience these fluctuations as a result of the following factors, among others:. ·the size, timing and frequency of our auctions;. ·the seasonal nature of the auction business in general, with peak activity typically occurring in the second and fourth calendar quarters, mainly as a result of the seasonal nature of the construction and natural resources industries;. ·the performance of our underwritten (guarantee and outright purchase) contracts;. ·general economic conditions in the geographical regions in which we operate; and. ·the timing of acquisitions and development of auction facilities and related costs.. In addition, we may incur substantial costs when entering new geographies and the profitability of operations at new locations is uncertain as a result of the increased variability in the number and size of auctions at new sites. These and other factors may cause our future results to fall short of investor expectations or not to compare favorably to our past results. Further, as our results generally fluctuate from quarter to quarter, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful indicators of future performance.. New regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and commercial electronic messages may restrict or increase costs of our marketing efforts.. Our operation and marketing activities are subject to various types of regulations, including laws relating to the protection of personal information, consumer protection and competition. User data protection and communication-based laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country, and these laws continue to develop in ways we cannot predict and that may adversely affect our business. Complying with these varying national requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner with adverse effects on our business, and violations of privacy-related laws can result in significant penalties. See “— We process, store, and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to a variety of evolving governmental regulation, industry standards and self-regulatory schemes, contractual obligations, and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection, which may increase our costs, decrease adoption and use of our products and services and expose us to liability.” A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to our marketing practices under communications-based laws could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business.. One example of such a law is Canada’s Anti-Spam Law, or CASL, which came into force on July 1, 2014. CASL prohibits the transmission of electronic messages for commercial purposes to an electronic address, which includes an electronic mail account, an instant messaging account, a telephone account, or any similar account, unless the recipient has consented to receiving the message and the message complies with the requirements under CASL, including the implementation of an unsubscribe mechanism. CASL further imposes certain restrictions on a service provider’s ability to automatically install or cause to be installed computer software (including software updates) on a person’s device without the person’s consent. CASL, in its current form, may impose additional costs and processes with respect to communicating with existing and prospective customers and may limit cross-selling opportunities for affiliated companies, depending on whether the appropriate consents have been obtained. Penalties for non-compliance with CASL are considerable, including administrative monetary penalties of up to 10 million Canadian dollars.. Ritchie Bros.26. The provisions of CASL providing a private right of action were intended to come into force on July 1, 2017; however, this has been suspended by the Canadian federal government pending further review. If the provisions providing for a private right of action take effect at a later date, they will allow any person to bring claims for contravention of CASL’s terms. The private right of action may lead to increased risk of class action suits. The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission has also begun actively enforcing CASL and penalizing non-compliant organizations.. We process, store, and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to a variety of evolving governmental regulation, industry standards and self-regulatory schemes, contractual obligations, and other legal obligations related to privacy and data protection, which may increase our costs, decrease adoption and use of our products and services and expose us to liability.. There are a number of federal, provincial, state, local laws, rules and regulations, as well as contractual obligations and industry standards, that provide for certain obligations and restrictions with respect to data privacy and security, and the collection, storage, retention, protection, use, processing, transmission, sharing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other customer data. The scope of these obligations and restrictions is changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent among countries or conflict with other rules, and their status remains uncertain.. Within the EU, strict laws, including EU Directive 95/46/EC, already apply in connection with the collection, storage, retention, protection, use, processing, transmission, sharing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other customer data. The EU model has been replicated substantially or in part in various jurisdictions outside the United States. Data protection regulators within the EU and other jurisdictions have the power to fine non-compliant organizations significant amounts and seek injunctive relief, including the cessation of certain data processing activities. If personal data transfers to us and by us from the EU are considered illegitimate under EU Directive 95/46/EC and applicable member states’ implementations thereof, we may face a risk of enforcement actions taken by EU data protection authorities.. Additionally, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which replaces the EU Directive 95/46/EC and strengthens the existing data protection regulations in the EU, is set to enter into full force on May 25, 2018. The GDPR applies to all EU citizens’ data, regardless of whether such data is collected, stored or processed within the EU. Penalties for non-compliance with the GDPR are considerable, allowing EU regulators to impose a monetary penalty equal to the greater of \200100 million or 4% of a non-compliant organization’s worldwide annual sales. Such fines would be in addition to the rights of individuals to sue for damages in respect of any data privacy breach which causes them to suffer loss.. As Internet commerce and related technologies continue to evolve, thereby increasing a service provider’s capacity to collect, store, retain, protect, use, process and transmit large volumes of personal information, increasingly restrictive regulation by federal, provincial, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. We believe that the adoption of increasingly restrictive regulation in the field of data privacy and security is likely in both the United States and in other jurisdictions, possibly as restrictive as the EU model. Obligations and restrictions imposed by current and future applicable laws, regulations, contracts and industry standards may affect our ability to provide all the current features of our products and services, and could require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. In 2015, Canada’s federal privacy legislation was amended to implement mandatory data breach notification requirements and fines of up to 100,000 Canadian dollars per occurrence for organizations that fail to keep a log of breaches or notify the Office of the Privacy Commissioner or affected individuals. The amendments are not yet in force pending approval of related regulations, which were published for public comment in 2017. Such obligations and restrictions may limit our ability to collect, store, process, use, transmit and share data with our affiliated entities and third party partners. Compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such obligations and restrictions could increase the cost of our operations. Failure to comply with obligations and restrictions related to data privacy and security could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, consent decrees, injunctions, adverse publicity and other losses that could harm our business.. Ritchie Bros.27. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and industry groups have adopted and are considering the adoption of various self-regulatory standards and codes of conduct that, if applied to our business or current practices may place additional burdens on us, which may increase the costs of our products and services further reducing demand and harming our business.. Our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a mobile device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. Additionally, our third-party contractors may have access to customer data. If these or other third-party vendors violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also put our customers’ information at risk and could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our business. Any failure by us to protect our customers’ privacy and data, including as a result of our systems being compromised by hacking or other malicious or surreptitious activity, could result in a loss of customer confidence and ultimately in a loss of customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business.. Our articles, by-laws, shareholder rights plan and Canadian legislation contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.. Certain provisions of our articles of amalgamation, and by-laws, as well as certain provisions of the Canada Business Corporations Act (the “CBCA”) and applicable Canadian securities law, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control or materially adversely impact the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for our common shares. Our articles of amalgamation authorize our board of directors to determine the designations, rights and restrictions to be attached to, and to issue an unlimited number of, junior preferred shares and senior preferred shares.. Our by-laws contain provisions establishing that shareholders must give advance notice to us in circumstances where nominations of persons for election to our board of directors are made by our shareholders other than pursuant to either a requisition of a meeting made in accordance with the provisions of the CBCA or a shareholder proposal made in accordance with the provisions of the CBCA.. Among other things, these advance notice provisions set a deadline by which shareholders must notify us in writing of an intention to nominate directors for election to the board of directors prior to any shareholder meeting at which directors are to be elected and set forth the information required in this notice for it to be valid.. Our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), pursuant to which we issued one right in respect of each common share outstanding. Under the Rights Plan, following a transaction in which any person becomes an “acquiring person” as defined in the Rights Plan, each right will entitle the holder to receive a number of common shares provided in the Rights Plan. The purposes of the Rights Plan are (i) to provide our board of directors time to consider value-enhancing alternatives to a take-over bid and to allow competing bids to emerge; (ii) to ensure that shareholders are provided equal treatment under a take-over bid; and (iii) to give adequate time for shareholders to properly assess a take-over bid without undue pressure. The Rights Plan can potentially impose a significant penalty on any person commencing a takeover bid that would result in the offeror becoming the beneficial owner of 20% or more of our outstanding common shares.. Any of these provisions, as well as certain provisions of the CBCA and applicable Canadian securities law, may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may have otherwise presented a premium to our shareholders.. U.S. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us, our directors, or our officers.. We are governed by the CBCA and our principal place of business is in Canada. Many of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of their assets, as well as a substantial portion of our assets, are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us and such directors and officers or to enforce judgments obtained against us or such persons, in U.S. courts, in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws or any other laws of the United States.. Ritchie Bros.28. Additionally, rights predicated solely upon civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws or any other laws of the United States may not be enforceable in original actions, or actions to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts, brought in Canadian courts, including courts in the Province of British Columbia.. We are governed by the corporate laws of Canada which in some cases have a different effect on shareholders than the corporate laws of Delaware.. We are governed by the CBCA and other relevant laws, which may affect the rights of shareholders differently than those of a company governed by the laws of a U.S. jurisdiction, and may, together with our charter documents, have the effect of delaying, deferring or discouraging another party from acquiring control of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, or may affect the price an acquiring party would be willing to offer in such an instance."
