[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Risks Related to Our Business/Industry:. Reduction in U.S. Government spending adversely impacts Government Systems sales and profitability.. In 2017, 25 percent of our sales were derived from U.S. Government contracts, both directly and indirectly through subcontracts. Defense funding by the U.S. Government is expected to continue to be under pressure due to the overall economic environment, budget deficits and competing budget priorities. Cost cutting, efficiency initiatives, reprioritization and other affordability analysis by the U.S. Government on defense spending could present some additional opportunities for us, but continued pressure on U.S. Government spending on defense could also adversely impact our Government Systems sales and profitability.. The U.S. Government has implemented various initiatives to address its fiscal challenges. In August 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act (BCA) of 2011 which imposed spending caps and certain reductions in defense spending over a ten-year period through 2021. These spending caps and reductions, referred to as sequestration, went into effect in March 2013. Through a series of bipartisan agreements, Congress has been able to temporarily lift discretionary spending limits every year through 2017. However, unless a new agreement is enacted, the BCA will again be in force beginning in 2018. The continued uncertainty surrounding the U.S. defense budget could have a material adverse effect on the Company and the defense industry in general.. In years when the U.S. Government does not complete its annual budget and appropriations process prior to the beginning of its fiscal year (October 1), government operations are typically funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue to operate in the new year, but generally does not authorize new spending initiatives. During periods covered by a continuing resolution (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), we may experience delays by the government in the procurement of new or existing products and services which can adversely impact our results of operations and cause variability in the timing of revenue between periods. The government began operations in fiscal year 2018 under a continuing resolution that is set to expire in December 2017.. We offer a diverse range of defense products and services. We believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business; however, delays or termination of multiple or large programs or contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. Potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on or replacement programs. While we would expect to compete and be well positioned as the incumbent on existing programs, we may not be successful, and any replacement programs may be funded at lower levels.. 10. We depend to a significant degree on U.S. Government contracts, which are subject to unique risks.. In addition to normal business risks, our supply of systems and products to the U.S. Government is subject to unique risks which are largely beyond our control. These risks include:. • dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds. • the ability of the U.S. Government to terminate, without prior notice, partially completed government programs and contracts that were previously authorized (although we may recover certain costs if terminated for convenience). • changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies which may reflect military and political developments, including U.S. Government initiatives to gain increased access to intellectual property. • significant changes in contract scheduling or program structure, which generally result in delays or reductions in deliveries. • intense competition for available U.S. Government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development. • difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. • changes over the life of U.S. Government contracts, particularly development contracts, which generally result in adjustments of contract prices. • claims based on U.S. Government work and violation of associated compliance and other requirements, which may result in fines, the cancellation or suspension of payments or suspension or debarment proceedings affecting potential further business with the U.S. Government. We are subject to risks arising from changes in the competitive environment in which we operate.. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Many of our competitors are also our suppliers or customers on our programs and may be significantly larger than us. Among others, risks in the competitive environment include:. • original equipment manufacturers' efforts to vertically integrate. • customers seeking more rights in intellectual property developed in connection with their program, price concessions, extensive liability protections and other customer favorable contract terms. • competitors offering lower prices and new solutions, developing new technologies or otherwise capturing more market share. International conflicts and terrorism may adversely affect our business.. International conflicts and political turmoil in the Middle East and elsewhere and the possibility of future terrorist attacks cause significant uncertainty with respect to business and financial markets and may adversely affect our business. These international conflicts also affect the price of oil, which has a significant impact on the financial health of our commercial customers. Although our Government Systems business may experience greater demand for its products as a result of increased government defense spending, factors arising (directly or indirectly) from international conflicts or terrorism which may adversely affect our commercial business include reduced aircraft build rates, upgrades, maintenance and spending on discretionary products, as well as increases in the cost of property and aviation products insurance and increased restrictions placed on our insurance policies.. Our business is heavily concentrated in the aviation industry.. As a provider of products and services to the aviation industry, we are significantly affected by the overall economic condition of that industry. The aviation industry is historically cyclical.. 11. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted, among other things, by the following:. • reductions in demand for aircraft and delayed aircraft delivery schedules. • bankruptcy or other significant financial difficulties of our existing and potential customers. • reductions in the need for, or the deferral of, aircraft maintenance and repair services and spare parts support. • deferral of discretionary spending by our airline customers for cabin retrofit activities. • retirement or storage of older generation aircraft, resulting in fewer retrofits and less demand for services for those aircraft, as well as the increased availability of used or recycled equipment on the market. • limited availability of financing for airlines or aircraft. • impact on the aviation industry due to the volatility of fuel prices. • disruptions to commercial air travel demand. A global or regional recession may adversely affect us.. If a recession emerges that impacts where we do business, risks may include:. • declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows from reduced orders, payment delays or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers. • adverse impacts on our access to short-term commercial paper borrowings or other credit sources. • supply problems associated with any financial constraints faced by our suppliers. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business outside the U.S.. In 2017, 45 percent of our total revenues were from sales of our products and services internationally, including foreign military sales. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total sales. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:. • laws, regulations and policies of non-U.S. governments relating to investments and operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad. • regulatory requirements and potential changes, including imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, antitrust and data privacy requirements. • changes in government spending on defense programs. • uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding, credit or guarantees. • requirements of certain customers which obligate us to specified levels of in-country purchases, manufacturing or investments, known as offsets, and penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with the offset requirements. • impacts associated with foreign currency volatility. • uncertainties as to local laws and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. • rapid changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation. 12. We have made, and expect to continue to make, strategic acquisitions and partnerships that involve risks and uncertainties.. We completed five acquisitions and several joint ventures and strategic alliances (partnerships) in the past three fiscal years. We will consider making minor acquisitions and partnerships in the future in an effort to enhance shareowner value. Acquisitions and partnerships involve certain risks and uncertainties, such as:. • difficulty in integrating newly-acquired businesses and commencing partnership operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration or commencement. • challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost and revenue synergies and other expected benefits. • risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and the targeted technologies do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets. • risk that we assume significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties. • loss of key employees of the acquired businesses or joint venture. • risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. • risk of litigation associated with an acquisition. We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event that we have cost overruns.. During 2017, approximately 94 percent of our total sales were, and a significant portion of our anticipated future sales will be, from fixed-price contracts. This allows us to benefit from cost savings, but it carries the burden of potential cost overruns since we assume all of the cost risk. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can incur losses on these contracts. These fixed-price contracts can expose us to potentially large losses because the customer may compel us to complete a project or, in the event of a termination for default, pay the entire incremental cost of its replacement by another provider regardless of the size of any cost overruns that occur over the life of the contract. Because many of these projects involve new technologies and applications and can last for years, unforeseen events such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw. materials, problems with subcontractors and cost overruns can result in the contractual price becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us over time. Furthermore, if we do not meet project deadlines or specifications, we may need to renegotiate contracts on less favorable terms, be forced to pay penalties or liquidated damages or suffer major losses if the customer exercises its right to terminate. In addition, some of our contracts have provisions relating to cost controls and audit rights, and if we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts we may not realize their full benefits. Our results of operations are dependent on our ability to maximize earnings from our contracts. Lower earnings caused by cost overruns could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to risks in our integration processes and production systems, including potential issues in meeting stringent performance and reliability standards.. The aerospace and defense business is complex, involving extensive coordination and integration with U.S. and non-U.S. suppliers and customers, highly-skilled labor, stringent regulatory and contractual requirements and performance and reliability standards. As a result, our ability to deliver products and systems on time, satisfy regulatory and customer requirements, and achieve or maintain program profitability is subject to significant risk. Operational delays or defects could result in increased production costs, as well as delayed deliveries and disruption to our customers.. Costs of certain employee and retiree benefits may rise.. Although we have taken action seeking to contain volatility in the costs related to medical and pension benefits, there are risks that our costs for these benefits will increase as a result of:. • continued increases in medical costs related to current employees due to increased usage of medical benefits, medical inflation and the impact of U.S. Government health care legislation. • continued increases in the average life span of retirees. 13. • material changes in legislation or market dynamics impacting medical or pension matters. • the effect declines in the stock and bond markets have on our pension plan assets. • reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our retirement benefit obligations. Tax changes could affect our effective tax rate and future profitability.. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability and changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax legislation, the results of audits and examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessment of our tax exposures.. We depend on critical suppliers and subcontractors.. We do not always have alternate sources of supply readily available for certain goods or services, such as liquid crystal displays. The loss of a significant supplier or subcontractor or their inability to meet performance, quality or delivery requirements due to natural disaster, financial stress, capacity constraints, military conflicts or other causes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend on specialized test equipment.. Some of our specialized test equipment that supports the reliability of our products and systems is the result of significant investment. Back-up test equipment may not be readily available. Damage to our specialized test equipment may result in protracted production recovery and may adversely impact our ability to service our products.. A cybersecurity incident, network failure or other business disruption could have negative impacts.. We face cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities, potential cyber attacks to the integrity of our networks and/or products, and the potential release or theft of our intellectual property, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology (IT) failures. Possible areas of significant exposure to cyber threats or other disruptions include our enterprise information technology resources, our information management network that provides communication services to customers and our flight deck communication products and solutions. Any of these threats or disruptions may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks may include:. • adverse effects to future results due to the theft, destruction, loss, corruption or release of personal data, confidential information or intellectual property. • operational or business disruptions resulting from the failure of IT or other systems and subsequent mitigation activities. • negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, suppliers, employees, shareowners and others. Risks Related to Our B/E Aerospace Transaction:. We may be unable to successfully integrate B/E Aerospace's business and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger.. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine our business with B/E Aerospace's business and realize the anticipated benefits, including synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies, from the combination. If we are unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. The merger involves the integration of B/E Aerospace's business with our existing business, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. We have not previously completed a transaction comparable in size or scope to the merger. The integration of the two companies may result in material challenges, including, without limitation:. • the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the devotion of management's attention to the integration. 14. • maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees. • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration process. • retaining existing business and operational relationships and attracting new business and operational relationships. • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations. • coordinating geographically separate organizations. • unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems. • unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the integration. Many of these factors are outside of our control and any one of them could result in delays, increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Between signing of the merger agreement and closing of the merger, we were permitted to conduct only limited planning for the integration of the two companies following the merger. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized on a timely basis, if at all.. Our future results may be adversely impacted if we do not effectively manage the expanded operations following the completion of the B/E Aerospace merger.. Following the completion of the merger, our business is significantly larger. Our ability to successfully manage this expanded business depends, in part, upon management's ability to design and implement strategic initiatives that address not only the integration of two discrete companies, but also the increased scale and scope of the combined business with its associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger.. We are incurring substantial expenses related to the merger and the integration of B/E Aerospace.. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, revenue recognition, marketing, employee benefits, legal and compliance, strategic and financial planning, information technology and treasury. The substantial majority of costs for these integration activities will be non-recurring expenses related to the merger (including financing of the merger and the refinancing of certain indebtedness), facilities and systems consolidation costs. We may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. We are also incurring transaction fees and costs related to integration plans for the combined business, and the execution of these plans may lead to additional unanticipated costs and time delays. These incremental transaction and merger-related costs may exceed the savings we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative costs and the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, particularly in the near term and in the event there are material unanticipated costs.. We are significantly more leveraged.. In connection with the B/E Aerospace merger, we incurred $5.9 billion in additional indebtedness. We have consolidated indebtedness of approximately $7.2 billion, which is greater than what our indebtedness was prior to the merger. The increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-total capitalization ratio may have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, requiring us to use substantial amounts of cash flow to repay indebtedness, increasing borrowing costs and placing us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less leverage.. 15. The financing arrangements entered into in connection with the merger contain restrictions and limitations that could, under certain circumstances, significantly impact our ability to operate the business.. We incurred significant new indebtedness in connection with the merger. The agreements governing the indebtedness incurred in connection with the merger contain covenants that, among other things, may, under certain circumstances, place limitations on the dollar amounts paid or other actions relating to:. • consolidating with or merging into any other corporation or conveying or transferring all or substantially all its properties and assets. • incurring secured debt. • entering into sale and leaseback transactions. • designating subsidiaries as restricted or unrestricted. Such agreements also require us to maintain a debt-to-capitalization ratio below a specified threshold, which may further limit discretion in the operation of our business following the merger. Such agreements also contain additional restrictive covenants. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with the covenants contained in our debt agreements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing.. The merger could result in significant liability to us if the merger causes the KLX spin-off to fail to qualify for the KLX spin-off tax treatment.. In 2014, the Consumables Management Segment of B/E Aerospace, which consisted of its aerospace distribution and energy services businesses, was spun-off to form KLX, Inc., which is referred to as KLX. At the time of the KLX spin-off, B/E Aerospace received an opinion of Shearman & Sterling to the effect that, subject to the limitations and assumptions set forth therein, the KLX spin-off that occurred in December 2014 will qualify for the KLX spin-off tax treatment, which generally means a transaction tax-free to B/E Aerospace and its stockholders under the U.S. federal income tax rules for spin-offs in Section 355 of the Code and related provisions. If, however, the KLX spin-off were to fail to qualify for the KLX spin-off tax treatment, B/E Aerospace would be subject to tax on substantial gain as if B/E Aerospace had sold the KLX common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value at the time of the KLX spin-off. In addition, if the KLX spin-off failed to qualify for tax-free treatment, each B/E Aerospace stockholder at the time of the KLX spin-off would be treated as if it had received a distribution from B/E Aerospace in an amount equal to the fair market value of the KLX common stock that they received; this distribution generally would be taxed as a dividend to the extent of the stockholder's pro rata share of B/E Aerospace's current and accumulated earnings and profits at the time of the KLX spin-off and then treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the stockholder's basis in the B/E Aerospace common stock and finally as capital gain from the sale or exchange of   B/E Aerospace common stock.. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, the KLX spin-off would fail to qualify for the KLX spin-off tax treatment if the KLX spin-off was determined to have been used by B/E Aerospace principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits by, for example, facilitating a taxable sale of the stock of B/E Aerospace or KLX through a planned or intended change-in-control transaction identified prior to the KLX spin-off rather than principally to achieve one or more valid corporate business purposes. Furthermore, even if the KLX spin-off were otherwise to qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 and related provisions of the Code, it would be taxable to B/E Aerospace (but not to B/E Aerospace's stockholders) under Section 355(e) of the Code, if the KLX spin-off was determined to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, stock representing a 50% or greater interest in B/E Aerospace or KLX.. If it is determined that the KLX spin-off fails to qualify for the KLX spin-off tax treatment as a result of the merger (for example, if the merger is viewed as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the KLX spin-off or the KLX spin-off is found to have been used principally as a device for the distribution of earnings and profits), or because of the failure of the KLX spin-off to initially qualify for the KLX spin-off tax treatment, B/E Aerospace could incur significant tax liabilities. Because B/E Aerospace is our wholly owned subsidiary, any such tax liabilities of B/E Aerospace could also adversely affect us. If the KLX spin-off fails to qualify for the KLX spin-off tax treatment, this may also result in adverse tax consequences to. 16. stockholders of B/E Aerospace at the time of the KLX spin-off because they would be taxed on the distribution of KLX stock as described above.. In connection with the merger, we received an opinion from our counsel, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Shearman & Sterling to the effect that, subject to the limitations and assumptions set fourth therein, the merger will not cause the KLX spin-off to fail to qualify for the KLX spin-off tax treatment. The tax opinions received in connection with the merger rely on certain representations, assumptions, undertakings and covenants, including representation letters from each of us and B/E Aerospace. These representations relate to, among other items, confirming the accuracy of the representations and warranties originally made with respect to the KLX spin-off, along with compliance with covenants, the actions taken in pursuit of the corporate business purposes of the KLX spin-off, the interaction of the parties, and business developments since the KLX spin-off. If any of the factual representations in any of the representation letters, or any of the assumptions in the tax opinions is untrue or incomplete, an undertaking or covenant is not complied with or the facts upon which a tax opinion is based are materially different from the facts at the time of the merger, the opinions may not be valid. Moreover, opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or the courts. As a result, the conclusions expressed in the tax opinions could be challenged by the IRS, and a court may sustain such a challenge. None of Rockwell Collins, B/E Aerospace or KLX has requested a ruling from the IRS regarding the impact of the merger on the qualification of the KLX spin-off for the KLX spin-off tax treatment.. Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition of the Company by UTC:. The UTC Merger is subject to conditions, some or all of which may not be satisfied, or completed on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to complete the UTC Merger could have material adverse effects on us.. The completion of the UTC Merger is subject to a number of conditions, including, among other things, receipt of the shareowner approval and receipt of certain regulatory approvals, which make the completion and timing of the completion of the UTC Merger uncertain. The failure to satisfy all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the UTC Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring at all. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the UTC Merger will be satisfied or waived or that the UTC Merger will be completed. Also, subject to limited exceptions, either we or UTC may terminate the Merger Agreement if the UTC Merger has not been completed by 5:00 p.m. (Eastern time) on September 4, 2018, subject to extension through March 4, 2019, if all conditions other than certain antitrust-related conditions are or would be satisfied on that date.. If the UTC Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be materially adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the UTC Merger, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:. • the market price of our common stock could decline. • we could owe a substantial termination fee to UTC under certain circumstances. • if the Merger Agreement is terminated and our board seeks another business combination, our shareowners cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to enter into a transaction on terms equivalent to or more attractive than the terms that UTC has agreed to in the Merger Agreement. • time and resources, financial and other, committed by our management to matters relating to the UTC Merger could otherwise have been devoted to pursuing other beneficial opportunities. • we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets or from our customers, suppliers or employees. • we will be required to pay our costs relating to the UTC Merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory and printing fees, whether or not the UTC Merger is completed. In addition, if the UTC Merger is not completed, we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the UTC Merger or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the UTC Merger Agreement. Any of these risks could materially and adversely impact our ongoing business, financial condition, financial results and stock price.. Similarly, delays in the completion of the UTC Merger could, among other things, result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other negative effects associated with uncertainty about completion of the UTC Merger and could materially and adversely affect our ongoing business, financial condition, financial results and stock price.. 17. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that limit our ability to pursue alternatives to the UTC Merger, could discourage a potential competing acquiror of the Company from making a favorable alternative transaction proposal and, in specified circumstances, could require us to pay a substantial termination fee to UTC.. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for us to be acquired by any company other than UTC. The Merger Agreement contains certain provisions that restrict our ability to, among other things, initiate, seek, solicit, knowingly facilitate, knowingly encourage, knowingly induce or knowingly take any other action reasonably expected to lead to, or engage in negotiations or discussions relating to, or approve or recommend, any third-party acquisition proposal. Further, even if our Board of Directors withdraws or qualifies its recommendation to the shareowners of Rockwell Collins to adopt the Merger Agreement and approve the UTC Merger (the \"merger proposal\"), unless the Merger Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, we will still be required to submit the merger proposal to a vote at the special meeting of our shareowners (the \"special meeting\"). In addition, following our receipt of any third-party acquisition proposal that constitutes a \"superior proposal,\" UTC will have an opportunity to offer to modify the terms of the Merger Agreement before our Board of Directors may withdraw or qualify its recommendation with respect to the merger proposal in favor of such superior proposal.. In some circumstances, upon termination of the Merger Agreement, we would be required to pay a termination fee of $695 million to UTC or reimburse certain expenses of UTC in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.. These provisions could discourage a potential third-party acquiror or merger partner that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant portion of us or pursuing an alternative transaction from considering or proposing such a transaction, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share value than the value proposed to be received in the UTC Merger. In particular, the termination fee, if applicable, would be substantial, and could result in a potential third-party acquiror or merger partner proposing to pay a lower price to our shareowners than it might otherwise have proposed to pay absent such a fee.. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and we determine to seek another business combination, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with another party on terms comparable to, or better than, the terms of the UTC Merger.. The UTC Merger is subject to the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods and the receipt of approvals, consents or clearances from several regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the UTC Merger.. Before the UTC Merger may be completed, any applicable waiting period (and any extension thereof) under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 relating to the completion of the UTC Merger must have expired or been terminated and any authorization or consent from a governmental authority required to be obtained with respect to the UTC Merger under certain other applicable foreign regulatory laws must have been obtained. In deciding whether to grant the required regulatory authorization or consent, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the UTC Merger within their relevant jurisdiction, including the impact on the parties' respective customers and suppliers. The terms and conditions of the authorizations and consents that are granted, if any, may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company's business or may materially delay the completion of the UTC Merger.. Under the Merger Agreement, UTC and Rockwell Collins have agreed to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain such authorizations and consents and UTC has agreed to take any and all steps necessary to avoid or eliminate impediments under any antitrust or certain other laws that may be asserted by any governmental authority so as to enable the completion of the UTC Merger as promptly as practicable. However, UTC's obligation to take actions required to obtain authorizations and consents under such laws is subject to limitations, including that UTC will not be required to commit to or effect (1) any sale, divestiture or other transfer if such action would require the sale, divestiture or other transfer of any assets, properties, businesses or product lines representing, in the aggregate, more than $850 million in annual revenues or (2) any other restriction or action if such restriction or action, individually or taken together with all sales, divestitures, transfers or other restrictions or actions in the aggregate, would or would reasonably be expected to have a materially adverse impact on us, UTC or any of their respective subsidiaries (in each case measured on a scale relative to the size of Rockwell Collins and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole) or on the expected benefits to UTC of the UTC Merger.. In addition, at any time before or after the completion of the UTC Merger, and notwithstanding the termination of applicable waiting periods, the applicable U.S. or foreign antitrust authorities or any state attorney general could take such action under the antitrust laws as such party deems necessary or desirable in the public interest. Such action could include, among other things, seeking to enjoin the completion of the UTC Merger or seeking divestiture of substantial assets of the parties. In addition, in some circumstances, a third party could initiate a private action under antitrust laws challenging, seeking to enjoin,. 18. or seeking to impose conditions on the UTC Merger. We and UTC may not prevail and we may incur significant costs in defending or settling any such action. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the UTC Merger set forth in the Merger Agreement relating to applicable regulatory laws will be satisfied.. The value of the stock portion of the Merger Consideration is subject to changes based on fluctuations in the value of UTC common stock, and our shareowners may, in certain circumstances, receive stock consideration with a value that, at the time received, is less than $46.67 per share of our common stock.. The market value of UTC common stock will fluctuate during the period before the date of our special meeting to approve the UTC Merger, during the 20 trading day period that the exchange ratio will be based upon, and the time between the last day of the 20 trading day period and the time our shareowners receive the portion of the Merger Consideration to be issued in the form of UTC common stock, as well as thereafter. Accordingly, at the time of our special meeting, our shareowners will not be able to determine the market value of the stock portion of the per share Merger Consideration they would receive upon completion of the UTC Merger.. Upon completion of the UTC Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Rockwell Collins common stock (other than certain excluded shares) will be converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration, which is equal to $93.33 in cash, without interest, plus a fraction of a share of UTC common stock having a value equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $46.67 by the average of the volume-weighted average prices per share of UTC common stock on the NYSE on each of the 20 consecutive trading days ending with the trading day immediately prior to the closing date, subject to adjustment based on a two-way collar mechanism as described below. If the UTC stock price is greater than $107.01 but less than $124.37, the exchange ratio will be equal to the quotient of (1) $46.67 divided by (2) the UTC stock price. However, if the UTC stock price is less than or equal to $107.01 or greater than or equal to $124.37, then a two-way collar mechanism will apply, pursuant to which (a) if the UTC stock price is greater than or equal to $124.37, the exchange ratio will be fixed at 0.37525 and result in more than $46.67 in value, and (b) if the UTC stock price is less than or equal to $107.01, the exchange ratio will be fixed at 0.43613 and result in less than $46.67 in value. Accordingly, the actual number of shares and the value of UTC common stock delivered to our shareowners will depend on the UTC stock price, and the value of the shares of UTC common stock delivered for each such share of our common stock may be greater than, less than or equal to $46.67.. It is impossible to accurately predict the market price of UTC common stock at the completion of the UTC Merger or during the period over which the UTC stock price is calculated and, therefore, impossible to accurately predict the number or value of the shares of UTC common stock that our shareowners will receive in the UTC Merger. The market price for UTC common stock may fluctuate both prior to completion of the UTC Merger and thereafter for a variety of reasons, including, among others, general market and economic conditions, the demand for UTC's or our products and services, changes in laws and regulations, other changes in UTC's and our respective businesses, operations, prospects and financial results of operations, market assessments of the likelihood that the UTC Merger will be completed, and the expected timing of the UTC Merger. Many of these factors are beyond our control.. We are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the UTC Merger is pending, which could adversely affect our business and operations.. In connection with the pendency of the UTC Merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationships with us as a result of the UTC Merger, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and/or cash flows, as well as the market price of our common stock, regardless of whether the UTC Merger is completed.. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the UTC Merger which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies, including the ability in certain cases to enter into or amend contracts, acquire or dispose of assets, incur indebtedness or incur capital expenditures. Such limitations could adversely affect our business and operations prior to the completion of the UTC Merger. Each of the risks described above may be exacerbated by delays or other adverse developments with respect to the completion of the UTC Merger.. 19. Completion of the UTC Merger will trigger change in control or other provisions in certain customer and other agreements to which we are a party, which may have an adverse impact on our or UTC's business and results of operations following completion of the UTC Merger.. The completion of the UTC Merger will trigger change in control and other provisions in certain customer and other agreements to which we are a party. If we or UTC are unable to negotiate waivers of those provisions, customers or other counterparties may exercise their rights and remedies under the agreements, potentially terminating the agreements or seeking monetary damages or equitable remedies. Even if we and UTC are able to negotiate consents or waivers, the customers or other counterparties may require a fee for such waivers or seek to renegotiate the agreements on terms less favorable to us or the combined company. Certain of our customers have commented on the potential impact of the UTC Merger, including potential benefits, questions and concerns. Any of the foregoing or similar developments may have an adverse impact on our or UTC's business and results of operations following completion of the UTC Merger.. Uncertainties associated with the UTC Merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees, which could adversely affect our future business and operations.. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to retain certain key management personnel and employees. Prior to completion of the UTC Merger, current and prospective employees of us and UTC may experience uncertainty about their roles within UTC following the completion of the UTC Merger, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. In addition, no assurance can be given that UTC, after the completion of the UTC Merger, will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees to the same extent that we and UTC have previously been able to attract or retain their own employees.. The UTC common stock to be received by our shareowners upon completion of the UTC Merger will have different rights from shares of Rockwell Collins common stock.. Upon completion of the UTC Merger, our shareowners will no longer be shareowners of Rockwell Collins, but will instead become shareowners of UTC and their rights as UTC shareowners will be governed by the terms of UTC's certificate of incorporation and by-laws. The terms of UTC's certificate of incorporation and by-laws are in some respects materially different than the terms of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, which currently govern the rights of our shareowners.. Litigation filed or that may be filed against the Company, UTC, Merger Sub and the members of the Board of Directors could prevent or delay the consummation of the UTC Merger.. In connection with the UTC Merger, several lawsuits have been filed by purported Rockwell Collins shareowners. The lawsuits seek an injunction barring the UTC Merger, rescission of the UTC Merger in the event it has been consummated, recovery of damages and other relief. The outcome of these lawsuits or any other lawsuit that may be filed challenging the UTC Merger is uncertain. One of the conditions to the closing of the UTC Merger is that no governmental authority has issued or entered any order after the date of the UTC Merger Agreement having the effect of enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the UTC Merger, and these lawsuits seek and potential other lawsuits may seek an order enjoining consummation of the UTC Merger. Accordingly, if these lawsuits or any future lawsuit is successful in obtaining an order enjoining consummation of the UTC Merger, then such order may prevent the UTC Merger from being completed, or from being completed within the expected time frame, and could result in substantial costs to Rockwell Collins including, but not limited to, costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Any such injunction or delay in the UTC Merger being completed may adversely affect Rockwell Collins' business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 20. Cautionary Statement. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, and documents that are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contains statements, including statements regarding the proposed acquisition of Rockwell Collins by UTC, that are forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those disclosed in Risk Factors in Item 1A above and otherwise detailed herein, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time to time in our SEC filings and, with respect to the proposed acquisition of Rockwell Collins, UTC's filings with the SEC. With respect to the business and operations of Rockwell Collins, these risks include but are not limited to: the financial condition of our customers and suppliers, including bankruptcies; the health of the global economy, including potential deterioration in economic and financial market conditions; adjustments to the commercial OEM production rates and the aftermarket; the impacts of natural disasters and pandemics, including operational disruption, potential supply shortages and other economic impacts; cybersecurity threats, including the potential misappropriation of assets or sensitive information, corruption of data or operational disruption; delays related to the award of domestic and international contracts; delays in customer programs, including new aircraft programs entering service later than anticipated; the continued support for military transformation and modernization programs; potential impact of volatility in oil prices, currency exchange rates or interest rates on the commercial aerospace industry or our business; the impact of terrorist events, regional conflicts or governmental sanctions on other nations on the commercial aerospace industry; changes in domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary, procurement and trade policies adverse to our businesses; market acceptance of our new and existing technologies, products and services;  reliability of and customer satisfaction with our products and services; potential unavailability of our mission-critical data and voice communication networks; unfavorable outcomes on or potential cancellation or restructuring of contracts, orders or program priorities by our customers; recruitment and retention of qualified personnel; regulatory restrictions on air travel due to environmental concerns; effective negotiation of collective bargaining agreements by us, our customers, and our suppliers; performance of our customers and subcontractors; risks inherent in development and fixed-price contracts, particularly the risk of cost overruns; risk of significant reduction to air travel or aircraft capacity beyond our forecasts; our ability to execute to internal performance plans such as restructuring activities, productivity and quality improvements and cost reduction initiatives; achievement of B/E Aerospace integration and synergy plans; continuing to maintain our planned effective tax rates; our ability to develop contract compliant systems and products on schedule and within anticipated cost estimates; risk of fines and penalties related to noncompliance with laws and regulations including compliance requirements associated with U.S. Government work, export control and environmental regulations; risk of asset impairments; our ability to win new business and convert those orders to sales within the fiscal year in accordance with our annual operating plan; the uncertainties of the outcome of lawsuits, claims and legal proceedings. With respect to the proposed acquisition, these risks include but are not limited to: the ability of Rockwell Collins and UTC to receive the required regulatory approvals for the proposed acquisition of Rockwell Collins by UTC (and the risk that such approvals may result in the imposition of conditions that could adversely affect the combined company or the expected benefits of the transaction) and approval of Rockwell Collins' shareowners and to satisfy the other conditions to the closing of the transaction on a timely basis or at all; the occurrence of events that may give rise to a right of one or both of the parties to terminate the merger agreement; negative effects of the announcement or the consummation of the transaction on the market price of UTC and/or Rockwell Collins common stock and/or on their respective businesses, financial conditions, results of operations and financial performance; risks relating to the value of UTC's shares to be issued in the transaction, significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities; the possibility that the anticipated benefits from the proposed transaction cannot be realized in full or at all or may take longer to realize than expected; risks associated with third party contracts containing consent and/or other provisions that may be triggered by the proposed transaction; risks associated with transaction-related litigation; the possibility that costs or difficulties related to the integration of Rockwell Collins' operations with those of UTC will be greater than expected; the outcome of legally required consultation with employees, their works councils or other employee representatives; and the ability of Rockwell Collins and the combined company to retain and hire key personnel. There can be no assurance that the proposed acquisition will in fact be consummated in the manner described or at all. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the proposed merger, are more fully discussed in the preliminary proxy statement/prospectus included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that UTC filed with the SEC on October 10, 2017, in connection with the proposed merger. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof and Rockwell Collins assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, except as otherwise required by law."
