[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us, our business and your investment in us because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.. We are the subject of an ongoing SEC investigation, which could divert management's focus, result in substantial investigation expenses and have an adverse impact on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We were notified by the SEC on June 24, 2014 that we are the subject of a formal investigation pertaining to the timing of our disclosure and accrual of loss reserves in fiscal 2013 with respect to the previously disclosed Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") and General Services Administration (\"GSA\") investigation into compliance issues relating to Tremco Roofing Division's GSA contracts.  As previously disclosed, our audit committee completed an investigation into the facts and circumstances surrounding the timing of our disclosure and accrual of loss reserves with respect to the GSA and DOJ investigations, and determined to restate our financial results for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2013.  The restatement shifted accrual amounts among the three quarters, which had the effect of reducing net income by $7.2 million and $10.8 million for the quarterly periods ended August 31, 2012 and November 30, 2012, respectively, and increasing net income for the quarterly period ended February 28, 2013 by $18.0 million. These restatements had no impact on our audited financial results for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2013. The audit committee's investigation concluded that there was no intentional misconduct on the part of any of our officers.. 9. In connection with the foregoing, on September 9, 2016, the SEC filed an enforcement action against us and our General Counsel.  We have cooperated with the SEC's investigation and believe the allegations in the complaint mischaracterize both our and our General Counsel's actions in connection with the matters related to our quarterly results in fiscal 2013 and are without merit.  Both we and our General Counsel filed motions to dismiss the complaint on February 24, 2017.  Those motions to dismiss the complaint were denied by the Court on September 29, 2017.  We and our General Counsel filed answers to the complaint on October 16, 2017.  Formal discovery commenced in January 2018.  We intend to continue to contest the allegations in the complaint vigorously.. The action by the SEC could result in sanctions against us and/or our General Counsel and could impose substantial additional costs and distractions, regardless of its outcome. We have determined that it is probable that we will incur a loss relating to this matter and have estimated a range of potential loss. We have accrued at the low end of the range of loss, as no amount within the range is more likely to occur, and no amount within the estimated range of loss would have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We have incurred significant legal and accounting expenditures in connection with the SEC's investigation.  We are unable to predict how long the SEC's investigation will continue or whether, at the conclusion of its investigation, the SEC will seek to impose fines or file an enforcement action against us.  Any action by the SEC could result in sanctions against us and/or certain of our officers. A protracted enforcement action could impose substantial additional costs and distractions, regardless of its outcome.  Furthermore, publicity surrounding an enforcement action, even if ultimately resolved favorably for us, could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Activist investors and ongoing operating improvement initiatives could cause us to incur significant expenses and impact the trading value of our common stock.. We are implementing certain operating improvement initiatives, as described in a cooperation agreement with activist investors, that we expect will result in changes in our organizational and operational structure that will impact most of our operating companies.  We expect to continue implementation of these initiatives over the course of the next year, and may take additional actions in furtherance of these objectives during future periods.  We may incur significant expenses as a result of these actions, and we also may experience disruptions in our operations, decreased productivity and unanticipated employee turnover.  The occurrence of any of these events associated with our operating improvement initiatives could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. The use of accounting estimates involves judgment and could impact our financial results.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\") requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Our most critical accounting estimates are described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in RPM's 2018 Annual Report to Stockholders, under, \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.\"  Additionally, as discussed in Note P, \"Contingencies and Other Accrued Losses,\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2018 Annual Report to Stockholders, and is incorporated herein by reference, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to legal proceedings and various loss reserves.  These estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment, and therefore, actual financial results may differ.. Our operations have been and could continue to be adversely affected by global market and economic conditions in ways we may not be able to predict or control.. Global economic uncertainty continues to exist, including uncertainty relating to the United Kingdom's vote to leave the European Union (\"Brexit\"). Our operations could be adversely affected by global economic conditions if global markets were to decline in the future, whether related to Brexit, recession and political unrest in Brazil, or otherwise. Any future economic declines may result in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collection of customer receivables. We also have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, increased competitive pricing pressure. In addition, customer difficulties in the future could result from economic declines or issues arising from the cyclical nature of their business and, in turn, result in decreases in product demand, increases in bad debt write-offs, decreases in timely collection of accounts receivable and adjustments to our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, resulting in material reductions to our revenues and net earnings.. 10. Global economic and capital market conditions may cause our access to capital to be more difficult in the future and/or costs to secure such capital more expensive.. We may need new or additional financing in the future to provide liquidity to conduct our operations, expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. Any sustained weakness in general economic conditions and/or U.S. or global capital markets could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. From time to time we have relied, and we may also rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. Those financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Moreover, the obligations of the financial institutions under our credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. Longer term volatility and continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.. Volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and required pension contributions.. We sponsor qualified defined benefit pension plans and various other nonqualified postretirement plans. The qualified defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities and other investments. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future contribution requirements. A significant decrease in investment returns or the market value of plan assets or a significant decrease in interest rates could increase our net periodic pension costs and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant increase in our contribution requirements with respect to our qualified defined benefit pension plans could have an adverse impact on our cash flow.. The results of our annual testing and as-required interim testing of goodwill and other intangible assets have required, and in the future may require that we incur impairment charges.. As of May 31, 2018, we had approximately $1.8 billion in goodwill and other intangible assets. The Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") section 350 requires that goodwill be tested at least on an annual basis, or more frequently as impairment indicators arise, using either a qualitative assessment or a fair-value approach at the reporting unit level. We perform our annual required impairment tests, which involve the use of estimates related to the fair market values of the reporting units with which goodwill is associated, as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter. The evaluation of our long-lived assets for impairment includes determining whether indicators of impairment exist, which is a subjective process that takes into account both internal and external factors. Impairment assessment requires the use of significant judgment with regard to estimates and assumptions surrounding future results of operations and cash flows. During fiscal 2017, we identified certain factors that we considered important in assessing the requirement to perform an interim goodwill and intangible asset impairment evaluation for our Kirker reporting unit and our Restore indefinite tradename asset.  As a result of those interim impairment assessments, we recorded losses for goodwill and other intangible assets of $188.3 million relating to our Kirker reporting unit and $4.9 million relating to our Restore tradename, respectively. Our required annual impairment testing for goodwill and other intangible assets, which we performed during the fourth quarter of the fiscal years ended May 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, did not result in any impairment loss.  In the future, if global economic conditions were to decline significantly, or if our reporting units experienced significant declines in business, we may incur additional, substantial goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges. The amount of any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our significant amount of indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our total debt levels were approximately $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion at May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which compares with $1.6 billion in stockholders' equity at May 31, 2018. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences.  For example, it could:. •  require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments, stock repurchases or other general corporate requirements;. •  result in a downgrade of our credit rating, which would increase our borrowing costs, adversely affect our financial results, and make it more difficult for us to raise capital;. 11. •  restrict our operational flexibility and reduce our ability to conduct certain transactions, since our credit facility contains certain restrictive financial and operating covenants;. •  limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, which would make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions; and. •  have a material adverse effect on our short-term liquidity if large debt maturities occur in close succession.. We cannot assure you that our business always will be able to make timely or sufficient payments of our debt.  Should we fail to comply with covenants in our debt instruments, such failure could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us.. Fluctuations in the supply and prices of raw materials may negatively impact our financial results.. We obtain raw materials from a number of suppliers.  Many of our raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives, minerals and metals.  The cost of raw materials has in the past experienced, and likely will continue to experience, periods of volatility which could increase the cost of manufacturing our products.  Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available on the open market from a variety of producers; however, unexpected shortages are a possibility.  Interruptions in the supply of raw materials could have a significant impact on our ability to produce products. Recently, some raw material costs have increased significantly and we have experienced some tightening in supply.  Adequate supply of critical raw materials is managed by establishing contracts, procuring from multiple sources, and identifying alternative materials or technology; however, the unavailability of raw materials or increased prices of raw materials that we are unable to pass along to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our competitors are much larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do.. The markets in which we operate are fragmented, and we do not face competition from any one company across all of our product lines. However, any significant increase in competition, as a result of the consolidation of competitors, including the merger of Sherwin-Williams and Valspar, or otherwise, may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced gross profit margins. Increased competition may also impair our ability to grow or to maintain our current levels of revenues and earnings. Companies that compete in our markets include Akzo Nobel, Axalta, Ferro, GCP Applied Technologies, H.B. Fuller, Masco, PPG, and Sherwin-Williams. Several of these companies are much larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition with these companies could prevent the institution of price increases or could require price reductions or increased spending to maintain our market share, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the succession of senior management.. Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key people, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. While we follow a disciplined, ongoing succession planning process and have succession plans in place for senior management and other key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of qualified senior executives will continue to be available to us at particular moments in time.. We depend on a number of large customers for a significant portion of our net sales and, therefore, significant declines in the level of purchases by any of these key customers could harm our business.. Some of our operating companies, particularly in the consumer segment, face a substantial amount of customer concentration. Our key consumer segment customers include Ace Hardware, Cotter & Company, Do It Best, The Home Depot, Inc., Intergamma, Lowe's, Menards, Orgill, Wal-Mart and W.W. Grainger. Sales to our ten largest consumer segment customers accounted for approximately 21%, 23% and 23% of our total net sales for each of the fiscal years ended May 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, and 65%, 67% and 68%, respectively, of the consumer segment's net sales for those same fiscal years. Sales to The Home Depot, Inc. represented less than 10% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, and 28% of our consumer segment net sales for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016.  If we were to lose one or more of our key customers, or experience a delay or cancellation of a significant order, or incur a significant decrease in the level of purchases from any of our key customers, or experience difficulty in. 12. collecting amounts due from a key customer, our net revenues could decline materially and our operating results could be reduced materially.. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our material trademarks and other proprietary information or there is a loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands.. We have numerous valuable patents, trade secrets and know-how, domain names, trademarks and trade names, including certain marks that are significant to our business, which are identified under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Despite our efforts to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, other parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information or marks without our authorization. Unauthorized use of our trademarks, or disclosure, as the case may be, could negatively impact our business and financial condition.. Similarly, the reputations of our branded products depend on numerous factors, including the successful advertising and marketing of our brand names, consumer acceptance, continued trademark validity, the availability of similar products from our competitors, and our ability to maintain our products' quality and technological advantages and claims of superior performance. A loss of a brand or in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products, and could negatively impact our business and financial condition.. The chemical and construction products industries in which we operate expose us to inherent risks of legal and warranty claims and other litigation-related costs, which could adversely impact our business.. As a participant in the chemical and construction products industries, we face an inherent risk of legal claims in the event that the exposure to or failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. In the course of our business we are subject to a variety of inquiries and investigations by regulators, as well as claims and lawsuits by private parties including those related to product liability, product claims regarding the use of asbestos or other chemicals or materials of concern, product warranty, environmental, contracts, intellectual property and commercial matters, which due to their uncertain nature may result in losses, some of which may be material.  We are defending claims, and could be subject to future claims, in which significant financial damages are alleged.  These claims could consume material financial resources to defend and be a distraction to management.  Some, but not all, of such claims are insured.  We offer warranties on many of our products, as well as long term warranty programs at certain of our businesses and, as a result, from time to time we may experience higher levels of warranty expense, which is typically reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses. The nature and extent to which we use hazardous or flammable materials in our manufacturing processes creates risk of damage to persons and property that, if realized, could be material.. Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could subject us to unforeseen future expenditures or liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to numerous, complicated and often increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we conduct business. Governmental and regulatory authorities impose various laws and regulations on us that relate to environmental protection, the use, sale and export of certain chemicals or hazardous materials, and various health and safety matters, including the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes, the use of certain chemicals in product formulations, and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA, CERCLA, TSCA, and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. These laws and regulations often impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and third party disposal sites. We could be subject to future liability as yet unknown and we are currently undertaking remedial activities at a number of properties.. We have not always been and may not always be in full compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in every jurisdiction in which we conduct our business. In addition, if we violate or fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws (including related to permitting), we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators, including enjoining or curtailing operations, remedial or corrective measures, installations of pollution control equipment, or other actions. We also could be liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances relating to our products or operations. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to make additional expenditures to remain in or to achieve compliance with environmental, health or safety laws in the future or that any such additional expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If regulatory permits or registrations are delayed, restricted, or rejected, subsequent operations at our businesses could be delayed or restricted, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. 13. Our businesses are subject to varying domestic and foreign laws and regulations that may restrict or adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.. Our businesses are subject to varying domestic and foreign laws and regulations that may restrict or adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.  These include securities, environmental, health, safety, tax, competition and anti-trust, trade controls, data security, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, employment and privacy laws and regulations.  These laws and regulations change from time to time and thus may result in increased costs to us related to our compliance therewith.  From time to time regulators review our compliance with applicable laws. We have not always been, and may not always be, in full compliance with all laws and regulations applicable to our business and, thus enforcement actions, fines and private litigation claims and damages, which could be material may occur, notwithstanding our belief that we have in place appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks.. If our efforts in acquiring and integrating other companies or product lines or establishing joint ventures fail, our business may not grow.. As an important part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and creating joint ventures. Our ability to continue to grow in this manner depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate and finance suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. Execution of our acquisition strategy with respect to some companies or product lines could fail or could result in unanticipated costs to us that were not apparent despite our due diligence efforts, either of which could hinder our growth or adversely impact our results of operations.  In addition, acquisitions and their subsequent integration involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to:. •  inaccurate assessments of disclosed liabilities and the potentially adverse effects of undisclosed liabilities;. •  unforeseen difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, their products, and their culture into our existing business;. •  unforeseen delays in realizing the benefits from acquired companies or product lines, including projected efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and profit margins;. •  unforeseen diversion of our management's time and attention from other business matters;. •  unforeseen difficulties resulting from insufficient prior experience in any new markets we may enter;. •  unforeseen difficulties in retaining key employees and customers of acquired businesses; and. •  increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, which could in turn restrict our ability to raise additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy.. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from foreign markets, which subjects us to additional business risks that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our foreign manufacturing operations accounted for approximately 35.5% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2018, not including exports directly from the U.S. which accounted for approximately 1.5% of our net sales for fiscal 2018. We plan to continue to grow our international operations and the growth and maintenance of such operations could be adversely affected by Brexit, changes in political and economic conditions, inflation rates, trade protection measures, restrictions on foreign investments and repatriation of earnings, changing intellectual property rights, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. Our ability to effectively manage our foreign operations may pose significant risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.. Significant foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may harm our financial results.. We conduct business in various regions throughout the world and are therefore subject to market risk due to changes in the exchange rates of foreign currencies in relation to the U.S. dollar.  Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in which we transact business could materially adversely affect our net revenues, operating income and the carrying values of our assets located outside the U.S.  For example, Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business.  Such strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results.. 14. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws of other countries, as well as trade sanctions administered by the office of Foreign Assets Control and the Department of Commerce.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (''FCPA'') and similar anti-bribery laws of other countries generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to governmental officials or others for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or for other unfair advantage. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices.. We are required to comply with U.S. regulations on trade sanctions and embargoes administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\"), the Commerce Department and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, which are complex and constantly changing.  A violation thereof could subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including a loss of export privileges and significant civil and criminal penalties and fines.. Although we have internal controls and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will prevent a violation of these laws.. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to the effect of global tax law changes, some of which have been, and may be in the future, retroactive in application.. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign tax laws and regulations which govern, among other things, taxes on worldwide income. Any potential tax law changes may, for example, increase applicable tax rates, have retroactive application, or impose stricter compliance requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which could reduce our consolidated net earnings.. In response to, for instance, an economic crisis or recession, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could, for example, reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. If changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were to significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, our effective tax rate could increase, our profits could be reduced, and if such increases were a result of our status as a U.S. company, could place us at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. tax reform legislation, commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was signed into law. The Act makes substantial changes to U.S. tax law, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, a limitation on deductibility of interest expense, the allowance of immediate expensing of capital expenditures, deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and significant changes to the taxation of foreign earnings post the enactment date. The Act contains numerous, complex provisions impacting U.S. multinational companies, and we continue to review and assess the legislative language and its potential impact on us. The full extent of the impact remains uncertain at this time, and our current interpretations of, and assumptions regarding, the Act are subject to additional regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service. As a result, the Act, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service, and other tax laws could have significant effects on us, some of which may be adverse and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We could be adversely affected by failure to comply with federal, state and local government procurement regulations and requirements.. We have contracts with and supply product to federal, state and local governmental entities and their contractors, and are required to comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements relating to those contracts and sales.  Requirements in our contracts and those requirements flowed down to us in our capacity as a subcontractor or supplier, although customary in government contracts, may impact our performance and compliance costs.  Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements or to make required disclosures under contract could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination for cause, adverse past performance ratings, actions under a federal or state false claims statute, suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and the assessment of penalties and fines, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future.. 15. Terrorist activities and other acts of violence or war, natural disasters and other disruptions have negatively impacted in the past and could negatively impact in the future the U.S. and foreign countries, the financial markets, the industries in which we compete, our operations and profitability.. Terrorist activities and natural disasters have contributed to economic instability in the U.S. and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, cyber-terrorism, violence, war or natural disasters could affect the industries in which we compete, our ability to purchase raw materials or make, sell or distribute products, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Data privacy and data security considerations could impact our business.. The interpretation and application of data protection laws in the U.S., Europe, including but not limited to the General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices.  Complying with these various laws is difficult and could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.  Further, although we are implementing internal controls and procedures designed to ensure compliance with the GDPR and other privacy-related laws, rules and regulations (collectively, the \"Data Protection Laws\"), there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will enable us to be fully compliant with all Data Protection Laws.. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive information and confidential and personal data, comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations and implement data security measures, our facilities, and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches and other data loss, including cyber-attacks and, in fact, we have experienced data security incidents that have not had a material impact on our financial results.  In addition, it is not possible to predict the impact on our business of the future loss, alteration or misappropriation of information in our possession related to us, our employees, former employees, customers, suppliers or others. This could lead to negative publicity, legal claims, theft, modification or destruction of proprietary information or key information, damage to or inaccessibility of critical systems, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. Although we have insurance, it may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations.. Although we maintain insurance of various types to cover many of the risks and hazards that apply to our operations, our insurance may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. The occurrence of a significant adverse event, the risks of which are not fully covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable.. Adverse weather conditions may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales.. From time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the U.S. and other countries in which we do business have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings, roofing, construction products and related products. For example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the general construction and exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of such products. As a result, we have historically experienced weaker sales and net income in our third fiscal quarter (December through February) in comparison to our performance during our other fiscal quarters."
