[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider each of the risks and uncertainties described in this section and all of the other information in this document before deciding to invest in our common stock. Any of the risk factors we describe below could severely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock could decline if any of these risks or uncertainties develops into actual events and you may lose all or part of your investment.. We depend heavily upon sources of human tissue, and any failure to obtain tissue from these sources in a timely manner will interfere with our ability to process and distribute allografts.. The supply of human tissue has at times limited our growth, and may not be sufficient to meet our future needs. In addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues that we currently use for allografts are at times in particularly short supply. Other factors, some of which are unpredictable, such as negative publicity and regulatory actions in the industry in which we operate (and which may not involve us) also could unexpectedly reduce the available supply of tissue.. We rely on donor recovery groups for their human tissue supplies and we have relationships with tissue donor recovery groups across the country. We also have relationships outside the United States. Donor recovery groups are part of relatively complex relationships. They provide support to donor families, are regulated by the FDA and applicable foreign equivalents, and are often affiliated with hospitals, universities or organ procurement organizations. Our relationships with donor recovery groups, which are critical to our supply of tissue, could be affected by relationships recovery groups have with other organizations. Any negative impact arising from potential regulatory and disease transmission issues facing the industry, as well as the negative publicity that these issues could create, could adversely affect our ability to negotiate contracts with recovery groups.. We cannot be sure that the supply of human tissue will continue to be available at current levels or will be sufficient to meet our needs. If we are not able to obtain tissue from current sources sufficient to meet our needs, we may not be able to locate additional replacement sources of tissue on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any interruption of our business caused by the need to locate additional sources of tissue could significantly impact our revenues. We expect that our revenues from allografts would decline in proportion to any decline in tissue supply.. We depend on various third-party suppliers and, in some cases, a single third-party supplier for key raw materials and component parts, apart from human tissue, used in our tissue processing and manufacturing processes, and the loss of any of these third-party suppliers, or their inability to supply us with adequate raw materials, could harm our business.. We use a number of raw materials in addition to human tissue, including titanium, titanium alloys, stainless steel, PEEK, PEKK, and animal tissue. We rely from time to time on a number of suppliers and, in some cases, on a single source vendor. Our dependence on single third-party suppliers, or even a limited number of third-party suppliers in certain instances, creates several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules. In addition, any supply interruption or cancellation in a limited or sole sourced component or raw material could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be found. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a change in manufactures will require qualification of the new supplier to ensure they comply with or quality standards. Delays in qualifying a new supplier or re-qualifying an existing supplier could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to curb rising healthcare costs, in addition to other economic factors, have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to create new companies with greater market power, including hospitals. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become, and will likely continue to become, more intense. This in turn has resulted, and will likely continue to result in, greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from various market segments as group purchasing organizations (\"GPOs\"), independent delivery networks (\"IDNs\"), and large. 12. Table of Contents. single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our existing and prospective customers. We expect the market demand, government regulation, and third-party reimbursement policies, among other potential factors, will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and prospective customers, which may reduce competition among our existing and prospective customers, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our implants and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated industry. An inability to meet current or future regulatory requirements in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions, or any deficiencies with our manufacturing or quality systems and processes identified by regulatory agencies, could disrupt our business, subject us to regulatory action and costly litigation, damage our reputation for high quality production, cause a loss of confidence in the company and our implants and negatively impact our financial position and operating results.. The FDA and several states have statutory authority to regulate allograft processing, including our BIOCLEANSE®, TUTOPLAST® and CANCELLE® SP processes, and allograft-based materials. We must register our facilities, whether located in the United States or elsewhere, with the FDA as well as regulators outside the U.S., and our implants must be made in a manner consistent with current good tissue practices (\"cGTP\") or similar standards in each jurisdiction in which we manufacture. In addition, the FDA and other agencies perform periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations, including primarily the quality system regulations and medical device reporting regulations. Following an inspection, an agency may issue a notice listing conditions that are believed to violate cGTP or other regulations (such as a FDA report on Form 483, Notice of Observations), or a warning letter for violations of \"regulatory significance\" that may result in enforcement action if not promptly and adequately corrected.. Since 2009, the FDA has significantly increased its oversight of companies' subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. In recent years, the FDA has also significantly increased the number of warning and untitled letters issued to companies. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our implants are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such implants, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded implants, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such implants, refuse to grant pending premarket approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for exports and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the implants present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also impose operating restrictions, enjoin and restrain certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assess civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our implants. Any inability to meet current or future regulatory requirements in the United States or foreign jurisdictions, or any deficiencies with our manufacturing or quality systems and processes identified by regulatory agencies would likely disrupt our business, subject us to regulatory action and costly litigation, damage our reputation for high quality production, cause a loss of confidence in the company and our implants and negatively impact our financial position and operating results.. If any of our allografts fall under the FDA's definitions of \"more than minimally manipulated or indicated for non-homologous use,\" we would be required to obtain medical device approval or clearance or biologics licenses, which could require clinical testing and could result in disapproval of our license applications and restricted distribution of any of our allografts which may become subject to pre-market approval. The FDA could require post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of such allografts, could restrict the commercial applications of these allografts, and could conduct periodic inspections of our facilities and our suppliers. Delays encountered during the FDA approval process could shorten the patent protection period during which we have the exclusive right to commercialize such technologies or could allow others to come to market before us with similar technologies. For example, on November 9, 2017, the FDA issued a Warning Letter to us related to our map3® allograft. The letter reiterated the FDA's previously expressed belief that the processing of map3® allograft rendered it \"more than minimally manipulated\" and therefore subject to the requirements of a biologics license application and associated manufacturing requirements under GMP regulations, 21 CFR Part 211. There was no requirement to cease production or to recall distributed map3® allografts from the market. Although we continue working diligently and collaboratively with FDA to resolve any concerns regarding the map3® allografts, including providing comprehensive packages of data to address the FDA's comments and we believe that in both developing and processing of map3® we have properly considered the relevant regulatory requirements, we cannot be certain that the FDA will ultimately find our corrective actions, proposed resolutions and studies, or arguments unpersuasive and unsuccessful. Further, we cannot guarantee that the FDA will continue to exercise enforcement discretion with respect to map3® allograft and, if so, for how long, and that they will not require us to remove map3® allograft from the market. We are committed to resolving the concerns raised by the FDA. However, it is not possible to predict the specific outcome or timing of a resolution at this time.. 13. Table of Contents. cGTP covers all stages of allograft processing, from procurement of tissue to distribution of final allografts. In addition, these regulations have a significant effect upon recovery agencies which supply us with tissue and have increased the cost of recovery activities. These increases have translated into increased costs for us, because we are expected to reimburse the recovery agencies based on their cost of recovery.. In addition to the FDA, several state agencies regulate tissue banking. Regulations issued by Florida, New York, California and Maryland are particularly relevant to our business. Most states do not currently have tissue banking regulations, but it is possible that others may make allegations against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have relationships, about non-compliance with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations. Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action, or could cause negative publicity for our business and the industry in which we operate.. Most of our metal, synthetic, and xenograft products, and a few allograft products, fall into an FDA classification that requires the submission of a Premarket Notification (510(k)) to the FDA. This process requires us to demonstrate that the device to be marketed is at least as safe and effective as, that is, substantially equivalent to, a legally marketed device. We must submit information that supports our substantial equivalency claims. Before we can market the new device, we must receive an order from the FDA finding substantial equivalence and clearing the new device for commercial distribution in the U.S.. We are also subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with its Quality System Regulation (21 CFR Part 820) (\"QSR\"), among other FDA requirements, such as restrictions on advertising and promotion. Our manufacturing operations, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the QSR, which addresses a company's responsibility for product design, testing and manufacturing quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. The QSR requires that each manufacturer establish a quality system by which the manufacturer monitors the manufacturing process and maintains records that show compliance with FDA regulations and the manufacturer's written specifications and procedures relating to the devices. QSR compliance is necessary to receive and maintain FDA clearance or approval to market new and existing products. The FDA makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with the QSR. If in connection with these inspections the FDA believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures, it may issue inspectional observations on Form 483 that would necessitate prompt corrective action. If FDA inspectional observations are not addressed and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the FDA's satisfaction, the FDA may issue a warning letter (which would similarly necessitate prompt corrective action) and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action, including the imposition of operating restrictions, including a ceasing of operations, on one or more facilities, enjoining and restraining certain violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices and assessing civil or criminal penalties against our officers, employees or us. The FDA could also issue a warning letter or a consent decree. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\"). Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For information regarding certain warning letters and FDA Form 483 inspectional observations that we are addressing, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.. The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection (\"CBP\"), administers controls over the import of medical devices into the U.S. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of our products, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. We are also subject to foreign trade controls administered by certain U.S. government agencies, including the Bureau of Industry and Security within the Commerce Department and he Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Treasury Department (\"OFAC\"). There are also requirements of state, local and foreign governments that we must comply with in the manufacture and marketing of our products. In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to local regulations affecting, among other things, design and product standards, packaging requirements and labeling requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. The member countries of the European Union have adopted the European Medical Device Directive, which creates a single set of medical device regulations for products marketed in all member countries. Compliance with the Medical Device Directive and certification to a quality system (e.g., ISO 13485 certification) enable the manufacturer to place a CE mark on its products. To obtain authorization to affix the CE mark to a product, a recognized European Notified Body must assess a manufacturer's quality system and the product's conformity to the requirements of the Medical Device Directive. We are subject to inspection by the Notified Bodies for compliance with these requirements. In addition, many countries, such as Germany, have very specific additional regulatory requirements for. quality assurance and manufacturing with which we must comply.. 14. Table of Contents. Effective May 26, 2020, the European Union's new MDR will replace the current medical device directives. All medical devices currently distributed in the European Union under the medical device directives are likely impacted. The MDR may also include products, such as human tissue, not traditionally considered medical devices in the European Union. Additionally, the MDR, among other things, increases regulatory requirements for several medical device groupings applicable to the Company's implants distributed in the European Union, including strengthening notified body oversight for Class I reusable surgical instruments, and up-classifying spinal devices in contact with the spinal column. Additional pre-clinical testing or clinical studies may be required to meet new MDR requirements. As notified bodies are preparing for certification under the MDR, a trend has been observed among industry participants that the notified bodies are becoming more rigorous and conservative in their interpretation and application of currently existing directives, resulting in observations requiring corrective actions, particularly with respect to clinical evaluation reports (CERs), that cause industry members, including the Company, to incur additional costs.    Further, with the implementation of the MDR the demand for notified body services is anticipated to increase while the number of eligible entities qualified as notified bodies is anticipated to decrease, thereby creating for the foreseeable future an imbalance in supply and demand that is anticipated to increase the cost of notified body services. Meeting the requirements of the MDR will likely cause us to incur additional costs and/or require us to discontinue distributing certain products in the European Union and other countries outside the European Union that rely on the CE mark for distribution into such countries. If we are unable to timely meet the requirements of the new MDR we may be prohibited from distributing our affected products in the European Union and other countries that rely on the CE mark, which could cause us to lose revenue. Further, notified bodies are subject to new certification. If the Company's notified body is not re-certified, or if they are certified for a narrower range of product types, the Company may have to engage a new or additional notified body which could cause a delay in meeting the new MDR requirements.    Individually or cumulatively, these changes associated with the MDR could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.. Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., European Union and elsewhere are often uncertain and subject to change. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, and such interpretations could, in addition to the possibility of fines, result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal data from Europe to the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), coming into application in the European Union on May 25, 2018, will apply to our activities conducted from an establishment in the European Union or related to products and services that we offer to European Union customers. The GDPR will create a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to change our business practices, and will significantly increase financial penalties for noncompliance.. In addition, the European Commission in July 2016 and the Swiss Government in January 2017 approved the EU-U.S. and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively, which are designed to allow U.S. companies that self-certify to the U.S. Department of Commerce and publicly commit to comply with the Privacy Shield requirements to freely import personal data from the European Union and Switzerland. However, these frameworks face a number of legal challenges and their validity remains subject to legal, regulatory and political developments in both the European Union and the U.S. This has resulted in some uncertainty, and compliance obligations could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Our administrative headquarters and a majority of all of our allograft processing facilities are currently conducted in locations that may be at risk of damage from hurricanes, fire, or other natural disasters. If a natural disaster strikes our administrative headquarters or any of our other processing or manufacturing facilities, our operations may be interrupted and we may be unable to process or manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time.. 15. Table of Contents. Our administrative headquarters and a majority of all of our allograft processing facilities are located in Alachua, Florida, in an area with historical occurrences of hurricane damage and wild fires. We have taken precautions to safeguard our facilities, including obtaining property, casualty and business interruption insurance. We have also developed an information technology disaster recovery plan. However, any future natural disaster at this or our other locations could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our facilities, equipment or inventory, and cause us to incur additional expenses. A disaster could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our facilities would be difficult to replace and would require substantial lead time to repair or replace. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. If we fail to maintain existing strategic relationships or are unable to identify distributors of our implants, revenues may decrease.. We currently derive a significant amount of our revenues through distributors such as Zimmer, Medtronic and Davol. In addition, our spine distributors provide nearly all of the instrumentation, surgeon training, distribution assistance and marketing materials for the lines of spinal implants that we produce and they distribute.. Variations in the timing and volume of orders by our distributors, particularly those who distribute a significant amount of our implants, may have a material effect upon our revenues. If our relationships with our distributors are terminated or reduced for any reason and we are unable to replace these relationships with other means of distribution, we could suffer a material decrease in revenues.. We may need, or decide it is otherwise advantageous to us, to obtain the assistance of additional distributors to market and distribute our new implants and technologies, as well as to market and distribute our existing implants and technologies, to new markets or geographical areas. We may not be able to find additional distributors who will agree to and are able to successfully market and distribute our implants and technologies on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to establish additional distribution relationships on favorable terms, our revenues may decline.. Also, our financial results are dependent upon the service efforts of our distributors. If our distributors are unsuccessful in adequately servicing our products, our sales could significantly decrease.. If third-party payers fail to provide appropriate levels of reimbursement for the use of our implants, revenues could be adversely affected.. The impact of United States healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain. In 2010 federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The impact of this far-reaching legislation, including Medicare provisions purportedly aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is designed and delivered. With the arrival of a new presidential administration and control of both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives, all of which are under control of the same political party, as of yet undetermined aspects of currently enacted legislation may change. The extent of any such changes and the impact on our business is uncertain. We therefore cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States. Amendments to, or rescissions of, existing laws and regulations, or the implementation of new ones, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is designed and delivered.    Any change that lowers reimbursement for an implant, our services, or our other technologies, or that reduces medical procedure volumes, would likely adversely impact our business and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain the high processing standards that implants require or if we are unable to develop processing capacity as required, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated.. Implants require careful calibration and precise, high-quality processing and/or manufacturing. Achieving precision and quality control requires skill and diligence by our personnel. If we fail to achieve and maintain these high standards, including avoiding processing and manufacturing errors, and, depending on the nature of the complaint, design defects or component failures; we could be forced to recall, withdraw or suspend distribution of our implants; our implants and technologies could fail quality assurance and performance tests; production and deliveries of our implants could be delayed or cancelled and our processing and/or manufacturing costs could increase.. 16. Table of Contents. Further, to be successful, we will need to manage our human tissue processing capacity related to tissue recovery and demand for our allografts. It may be difficult for us to match our processing capacity to demand due to problems related to the amount of suitable tissue, quality control and assurance, tissue availability, adequacy of control policies and procedures and lack of skilled personnel. If we are unable to process and produce our implants on a timely basis, at acceptable quality and costs, and in sufficient quantities, or if we experience unanticipated technological problems or delays in processing, it may reduce revenues, increase our cost per allograft processed or both.. The allograft industry is subject to additional local, state, federal and international government regulations and any increased regulations of our activities could significantly increase the cost of doing business, thereby reducing profitability.. Some aspects of our business are subject to additional local, state, federal or international regulation. Changes in the laws or new interpretations of existing laws could negatively affect our business, revenues or prospects, and increase the costs associated with conducting our business. In particular, the procurement and transplantation of allograft tissue is subject to federal regulation under the National Organ Transplant Act (\"NOTA\"), a criminal statute that prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs, including bone and other tissue. NOTA permits the payment of reasonable fees associated with the transportation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue. If NOTA were amended or interpreted in a way that made us unable to include some of these costs in the amounts we charge our customers, it could reduce our revenues and therefore negatively impact our business. It is possible that more restrictive interpretations or expansions of NOTA could be adopted which could require us to change one or more aspects of our business, at a substantial cost, in order to continue to comply with this statute.. A variety of additional local, state, federal and international government laws and regulations govern our business, including those relating to the storage, handling, generation, manufacture and disposal of medical wastes from the processing of tissue and collaborations with health care professionals. If we fail to conduct our business in compliance with these laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant liabilities for which our insurance may not be adequate. Moreover, such insurance may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity.. Our success depends on the continued acceptance of our surgical implants and technologies by the medical community.. New allograft, xenograft, metal or synthetic implants, technologies or enhancements to our existing implants may never achieve broad market acceptance, which can be affected by numerous factors, including lack of clinical acceptance of implants and technologies; introduction of competitive treatment options which render implants and technologies too expensive or obsolete; lack of availability of third-party reimbursement; and difficulty training surgeons in the use of tissue implants and technologies.. Market acceptance will also depend on our ability to demonstrate that our existing and new implants and technologies are an attractive alternative to existing treatment options. Our ability to do so will depend on surgeons' evaluations of the clinical safety, efficacy, ease of use, reliability and cost-effectiveness of these treatment options and technologies. For example, we believe that some in the medical community have lingering concerns over the risk of disease transmission through the use of allografts.. Furthermore, we believe that even if the medical community generally accepts our implants and technologies, acceptance and recommendations by influential surgeons will be important to the broad commercial success of our implants and technologies. If our implants and technologies are not broadly accepted in the marketplace, we may not remain competitive in the market.. Rapid technological changes could result in reduced demand for our implants and products.. Technologies change rapidly in the industry in which we operate. For example, steady improvements have been made in synthetic human tissue substitutes which compete with our tissue implants. Unlike allografts, synthetic tissue technologies are not dependent on the availability of tissue. If one of our competitors successfully introduces synthetic technologies using recombinant technologies, which stimulate the growth of tissue surrounding an implant, it could result in a decline in demand for tissue implants. We may not be able to respond effectively to technological changes and emerging industry standards, or to successfully identify, develop or support new technologies or enhancements to existing implants in a timely and cost-effective manner, if at all. If we are unable to achieve the improvements in our implants necessary for their successful commercialization, the demand for our implants will suffer.. 17. Table of Contents. We face intense competition, which could result in reduced acceptance and demand for our implants and technologies.. The medical technology/biotechnology industry is intensely competitive. We compete with companies in the United States and internationally that engage in the development and production of medical technologies and processes including biotechnology, orthopedic, pharmaceutical, biomaterial and other companies; academic and scientific institutions; and public and private research organizations.. Many of our competitors have much greater financial, technical, research, marketing, distribution, service and other resources than we do. Moreover, our competitors may offer a broader array of tissue repair treatment products, medical devices, surgical instruments and technologies or may have greater name recognition in the marketplace. We compete with a number of companies with significantly greater resources and brand recognition than ours. Our competitors, including several development stage companies, may develop or market technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than our technologies, or that may render our technologies obsolete. For example, the development of a synthetic tissue implant that permits remodeling of bones could reduce the demand for allograft and xenograft-based implants and technologies.. If we do not manage the medical release of donor tissue into processing in an effective and efficient manner, it could adversely affect profitability.. Many factors affect the level and timing of donor medical releases, including the effectiveness of donor screening performed by donor recovery groups, the timely receipt, recording and review of required medical documentation, and employee loss and turnover in our medical records department. We can provide no assurance that releases will occur at levels which maximize our processing efficiency and minimize our cost per allograft processed.. Negative publicity concerning methods of human tissue recovery and screening of donor tissue in the industry in which we operate may reduce demand for our allografts and impact the supply of available donor tissue.. Media reports or other negative publicity concerning both methods of tissue recovery from donors and actual or potential disease transmission from donated tissue may limit widespread acceptance of our allografts, whether directed to allografts generally or our allografts specifically. Unfavorable reports of improper or illegal tissue recovery practices by any participant in the industry, both in the United States and internationally, as well as incidents of improperly processed tissue leading to transmission of disease, may broadly affect the rate of future tissue donation and market acceptance of allograft technologies.. Potential patients may not be able to distinguish our allografts, technologies and the tissue recovery and the processing procedures from those of our competitors or others engaged in tissue recovery. In addition, families of potential donors may become reluctant to agree to donate tissue to for-profit tissue processors.. If our patents and the other means we use to protect our intellectual property prove to be inadequate, our competitors could exploit our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us.. The law of patents and trade secrets is constantly evolving and often involves complex legal and factual questions. The U.S. government may deny or significantly reduce the coverage we seek for our patent applications before or after a patent is issued. We cannot be sure that any particular patent for which we apply will be issued, that the scope of the patent protection will be comprehensive enough to provide adequate protection from competing technologies, that interference, derivation, reexamination, post-grant review or inter parties review proceedings regarding any of our patent applications will not be filed, or that we will achieve any other competitive advantage from a patent. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our patents will be held invalid or reduced in scope of claims if challenged or that others will claim rights in or ownership of our patents and other proprietary rights. If any of these events occur, our competitors may be able to use our intellectual property to compete more effectively against us.. Because patent applications remain secret until published (typically 18 months after first filing) and the publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that our patent application was the first application filed disclosing or potentially covering a particular invention. If another party's rights to an invention are superior to ours, we may not be able to obtain a license to use that party's invention on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our competitors, many of which have greater resources than ours, could obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make use of our inventions either in the United States or in. 18. Table of Contents. international markets. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not always protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Litigation or regulatory proceedings in the United States or foreign countries also may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of our competitors. These proceedings may prove unsuccessful and may also be costly, result in development delays, and divert the attention of our management.. We rely upon unpatented proprietary techniques and processes in tissue recovery, research and development, tissue processing, manufacturing and quality assurance. It is possible that others will independently develop technology similar to our technology or otherwise gain access to or disclose our proprietary technologies. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in these proprietary technologies, which would reduce our ability to compete.. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others, and if we are unable to do so we may be liable for damages.. We cannot be certain that U.S. or foreign patents or patent applications of other companies do not exist or will not be issued that would prevent us from commercializing our allografts, xenografts, medical devices, surgical instruments and other technologies. Third parties may sue us for infringing or misappropriating their patent or other intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is costly. If we do not prevail in litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to cease the infringing activity or obtain a license requiring us to make royalty payments. It is possible that a required license may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, a required license may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around another company's patent, we may be unable to make use of some of the affected technologies or distribute the affected allografts, xenografts or surgical implants, which would reduce our revenues.. The defense costs and settlements for patent infringement lawsuits are not covered by insurance. Patent infringement lawsuits can take years to settle. If we are not successful in our defenses or are not successful in obtaining dismissals of any such lawsuit, legal fees or settlement costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. We or our competitors may be exposed to product or professional liability claims which could cause us to be liable for damages or cause investors to think we will be liable for similar claims in the future.. The development, manufacture, and distribution of implants, medical devices, surgical instruments, and other technologies for surgical and medical treatment entails an inherent risk of product or professional liability claims, and substantial product or professional liability claims may be asserted against us. We are party to a number of legal proceedings relating to professional liability. The prevailing view among the states throughout the United States is that providing allografts is a service and not the sale of a product. As such, allografts are not typically subject to product liability causes of action. However, the law of a particular state could change in response to legislative changes or by judicial interpretation in a state where such issue has either not been previously addressed or prior precedent is overturned or subject to different interpretations by a court of higher precedential authority. In addition, due to the international scope of our activities we are subject to the laws of foreign jurisdictions which may treat allografts as products in those jurisdictions.. The implantation of donated human tissue implants creates the potential for transmission of communicable diseases. Although we comply with federal, state and foreign regulations and guidelines intended to prevent communicable disease transmission, and our tissue suppliers are also required to comply with such regulations, there can be no assurances that: (i) our tissue suppliers will comply with such regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmissions; (ii) even if such compliance is achieved, that our implants have not been or will not be associated with transmission of disease; or (iii) a patient otherwise infected with disease would not erroneously assert a claim that the use of our implants resulted in disease transmission.. Our business of designing, manufacturing and marketing metal, synthetic, and xenograft medical devices and surgical instruments exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in such activities. In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients.. 19. Table of Contents. We currently have $15 million of product and $25 million of professional liability insurance to cover claims. This amount of insurance may not be adequate for potential claims if we are not successful in our defenses. Moreover, insurance covering our business may not always be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If our insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may not have sufficient funds to do so, which would harm our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our ability to obtain surgeon acceptance of our implants or to expand our business.. We are subject to federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, as well as anti-bribery laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to fully comply with such regulations and laws.. Our relationship with foreign and domestic government entities and healthcare professionals, such as physicians, hospitals and those to whom and through whom we may market our implants and technologies, are subject to scrutiny under various federal, state and territorial laws in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These include, for example, anti-kickback laws, physician self-referral laws, false claims laws, criminal health care fraud laws, and anti-bribery laws (e.g., the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act). Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs. These laws are administered by, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, state attorneys general, and their respective counterparts in the applicable foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Many of these agencies have increased their enforcement activities with respect to medical device manufacturers in recent years.. If we are not successful in expanding our distribution activities into international markets, we will not be able to pursue one of our strategies for increasing revenues.. Our international distribution strategies vary by market, as well as within each country in which we operate. For example, we distribute only a portion of our line of allograft and xenograft implants within each foreign country where we operate. Our international operations will be subject to a number of risks which may vary from the risks we face in the United States, including the need to obtain regulatory approvals in additional foreign countries before we can offer our implants and technologies for use; the potential burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; longer distribution-to-collection cycles, as well as difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; dependence on local distributors; limited protection of intellectual property rights; fluctuations in the values of foreign currencies; and political and economic instability.. Security breaches, loss of data and other disruptions could compromise sensitive information related to our business, prevent us from accessing critical information or expose us to liability, which could adversely affect our business and our reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including patient health information, personally identifiable information about our employees, intellectual property, and proprietary business information. We manage and maintain our applications and data utilizing on-site and off-site systems. These applications and data encompass a wide variety of business critical information including research and development information, commercial information and business and financial information.. The secure processing, storage, maintenance and transmission of this critical information is vital to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting such information. Although we take measures to protect sensitive information from unauthorized access or disclosure, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, viruses, breaches or interruptions due to employee error or malfeasance, terrorist attacks, hurricanes, fire, flood, other natural disasters, power loss, computer systems failure, data network failure, internet failure, or lapses in compliance with privacy and security mandates. Any such virus, breach or interruption could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed by unauthorized parties, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. We have measures in place that are designed to detect and respond to such security incidents and breaches of privacy and security mandates. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, government enforcement actions and regulatory penalties. Unauthorized access, loss or dissemination could also interrupt our operations, including our ability to receive and ship orders from customers, bill our customers, provide customer support services, conduct research and development activities, process and prepare company financial information, manage various general and administrative aspects of our business and damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business.. 20. Table of Contents. The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. In addition to product and professional liability legal proceedings and claims, we are from time to time subject to intellectual property and various commercial legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business.. Given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. We could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Any acquisitions, strategic investments, divestures, mergers or joint ventures we make may require the issuance of a significant amount of equity or debt securities and may not be scientifically or commercially successful.. As part of our business strategy, we intend to make certain acquisitions to obtain additional businesses, product and/or process technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes securities, we may be required to issue a substantial amount of equity, debt, warrants, convertible instruments or other similar securities. Such an issuance could dilute your investment in our common stock or increase our interest expense and other expenses.. Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, divesting of certain business lines or activities or entering into joint ventures. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business or may terminate such activities. Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including but not limited to:. Further, acquisitions involve a number of operational risks, such as:. <U+0095>   difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired business;. <U+0095>   our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business;. <U+0095>   our inability to maintain the acquired company's relationship with customers and key third parties, such as alliance partners;. <U+0095>   exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition;. <U+0095>   the potential need to implement financial and other systems and add management resources;. <U+0095>   the potential for internal control deficiencies in the internal controls of the acquired operations;. <U+0095>   potential inexperience in a business area that is either new to us or more significant to us than prior to the acquisition;. <U+0095>   the diversion of our management's attention from our core business;. <U+0095>   the potential impairment of goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported results of operations; and. <U+0095>   increased costs to integrate or, in the case of a divestiture or joint venture, separate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired or divested business or assets.. Any one of these risks could prevent an acquisition, strategic investment, divesture, merger or joint venture from being scientifically or commercially successful, which could have a material impact on our results of operations, and financial condition.. Water Street may exercise significant influence over us, including through its ability to elect up to two members of our Board of Directors.. We issued 50,000 shares of Series A convertible preferred stock (\"Preferred Stock\") to WSHP Biologics Holdings, LLC, an affiliate of Water Street Healthcare Partners, a leading healthcare-focused private equity firm (\"Water Street\"), in connection with the closing of the Pioneer acquisition. As holders of this Preferred Stock, Water Street is entitled to vote on an as-converted basis upon all matters upon which holders of our common stock have the right to vote. The shares of Preferred Stock owned by Water Street currently represent approximately 19% of the voting rights in respect of our share capital on an as-converted basis; accordingly, Water Street has the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders (also, Water Street is not prohibited from buying shares of our common stock). In addition, to the extent dividends are not paid in cash in any quarter for any reason, including any restriction on. 21. Table of Contents. making such distributions under the terms of our credit agreement with TD Bank (as discussed below), the dividends which have accrued on each outstanding share of Preferred Stock during such three-month period are accumulated and are added to the liquidation value with respect to such share of Preferred Stock. We did not pay dividends on the Preferred Stock from the fourth quarter of 2013 through 2017. Consequently, we have accrued $14.4 million in preferred dividends payable as of December 31, 2017. To the extent dividends continue to accrue on the Preferred Stock, Water Street's voting rights in respect of our share capital on an as-converted basis will continue to increase.. Water Street may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, those of our other stockholders. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Investor Rights Agreement with Water Street provide that Water Street's consent is required before we may take certain actions for so long as Water Street and its permitted transferees beneficially own in the aggregate at least 10% of our issued share capital.. In addition, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Investor Rights Agreement with Water Street provide that Water Street has the right to designate and nominate, respectively, directors to our Board of Directors such that the percentage of our board members so designated or nominated is approximately equal to Water Street's percentage equity ownership interest in the company. The maximum number of directors that Water Street is able to designate or nominate is two, with at least one of such directors to serve on each of our Board committees. If Water Street's ownership of our share capital on an as-converted basis falls below 5% (calculated on a fully diluted basis, assuming conversion of the Preferred Stock at the then-existing conversion price), Water Street would have no further director designation or nomination rights under our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the investor rights agreement.. In addition, the ownership position and the governance rights of Water Street could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction with us.. Our ability to pay dividends and to make distributions may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or Preferred Stock.. We are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our capital stock. Under the terms of our credit agreement with TD Bank, we are restricted from paying dividends on our common stock without the prior written consent of the administrative agent. We are also restricted from paying dividends or making distributions on our common stock without the prior written consent of the holders of a majority of the Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of the Certificate of Designation of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, so long as any shares of the Preferred Stock remain outstanding. In addition, under the terms of our credit agreement with TD Bank, distributions to holders of our Preferred Stock are permitted only to the extent that we can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (based on the ratio of our total indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA) and meet other requirements. In the event that we fail to pay the accrued dividends on our Preferred Stock for any reason, including any restriction on making such distributions under the terms of our credit agreement with TD Bank, dividends payable will continue to accrue on such Preferred Stock.. Our credit agreement contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with financial or other covenants in our credit agreement, we may be required to repay indebtedness to our existing lenders, which may harm our liquidity.. Provisions in our credit agreement impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things:. <U+0095>   merge or consolidate;. <U+0095>   make strategic acquisitions;. <U+0095>   make dispositions of property;. <U+0095>   create liens;. <U+0095>   enter into transactions with affiliates;. <U+0095>   become a guarantor;. <U+0095>   pay dividends and make distributions;. <U+0095>   incur more debt; and. <U+0095>   make investments.. Our credit agreement also contains financial covenants that require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and maintain a specified amount of cash on hand.. 22. Table of Contents. We may not be able to comply with the financial covenants in the future. In the absence of a waiver from our lenders, any failure by us to comply with these covenants in the future may result in the declaration of an event of default, which could prevent us from borrowing under our credit agreement. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under our credit agreement, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding, if any, under the agreement, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we then may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. For example, in December 2013, we entered into an amendment to the credit agreement which, in part, modified certain financial covenants so that we could maintain compliance with the financial ratios. In October 2014, we entered into a second amendment to the second amended and restated loan agreement with TD Bank, N.A. and Regions Bank, which amended the loan agreement to remove certain financial covenants. In June 2015, we entered into a Third Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with TD Bank, N.A. and Regions Bank, which increased the maximum revolving credit amount from $20.0 million to $30.0 million. In June 2016, we entered into a Fourth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with TD Bank, N.A. and Regions Bank, which increased the maximum revolving credit amount from $30.0 million to $45.0 million. In November 2016, we entered into a Fifth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with TD Bank, N.A. and Regions Bank, which provided for: (i) a decrease in the maximum revolving credit amount from $45.0 million to $42.5 million; (ii) an increase in our leverage to EBITDA ratio from 2.50 to 1.00 to (A) 3.25 to 1.00 through March 31, 2017 and (B) 3.00 to 1.00 after March 31, 2017 and (iii) certain corresponding amendments. In February 2017, we entered into a Sixth Amendment to the Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement with TD Bank, N.A. and Regions Bank, which modified the definition of \"Extraordinary Expenses\" and to increase to 300 basis points the LIBOR Spread applicable when our financial performance under its Leverage Ratio is greater than 3.0x.. In August 2017, we entered into a Third Amended and Restated Loan Agreement (the \"2017 Loan Agreement\"), among us, TD Bank, N.A. and First Tennessee Bank National Association, as Lenders (together with the various financial institutions as in the future may become parties thereto, the \"Lenders\"), and TD Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders. The 2017 Loan Agreement represents a modification of the Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement dated July 16, 2013 between us, TD Bank, N.A. and Regions Bank (as amended, the \"2013 Loan Agreement\"). The 2017 Loan Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\"), in the aggregate principal amount of $42.5 million which is unchanged from the final Amendment to the 2013 Loan Agreement. We used $22.0 million of the proceeds from the sale of the CT Business to partially pay down amounts owed under the 2013 Loan Agreement, and $10.0 million to pay down amounts owed under the Revolving Credit Facility. Subsequent to the pay down, the outstanding principal balance on the 2013 Loan Agreement Term Loan amounted to $25.4 million which became the principal amount of the 2017 Loan Agreement (the \"Term Loan Facility\" and, together with the Revolving Credit Facility the \"Facility\"). The Facility is secured by substantially all the assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries and is guaranteed by the Company's domestic subsidiaries, as well as 65% of the stock of the Company's foreign subsidiaries. Borrowings made under the 2017 Loan Agreement initially will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to monthly LIBOR plus a margin of up to 3.50%. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears, and principal on the Term Loan Facility is payable in quarterly payments of $1.1 million, each commencing October 1, 2017. The maturity date of the Facility is September 15, 2019, which represents an extension from the 2013 Loan Agreement maturity date of July 16, 2018. We may make optional prepayments on the Facility without penalty at the end of any LIBOR interest period.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations.. Our level of indebtedness, particularly the Revolving Credit Facility discussed in the immediately above risk factor, may limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness.. Our health insurance and prescription drug coverage, along with our self-insurance reserves, may not cover future claims.. For the health insurance year beginning January 1, 2016, we began to self-insure for our U.S. employees' medical and prescription drug insurance coverage. We are responsible for losses up to certain retention limits on both a per-claim and aggregate basis.. 23. Table of Contents. For policies under which we are responsible for losses, we record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. Fluctuating healthcare costs, severity of claims, increases in the employee population, and deviations from our expectations could affect the accuracy of estimates based on historical experience. If actual claims are greater in number and/or severity compared to what was estimated or medical costs increase beyond what was expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient and we may be required to record additional expense. Unanticipated changes may produce materially different amounts of expense than that reported under these programs, which could adversely impact our operating results.. We may be subject to suit under a state or federal whistleblower statute.. Those who engage in business with the federal government, directly or indirectly, may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. These lawsuits, known as qui tam suits, are authorized under certain circumstances by the False Claims Act and can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits. If any of these lawsuits were to be brought against us, such suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. The Affordable Care Act has sought to link the violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute with violations of the False Claims Act, making it arguably easier for the government or for whistleblowers, acting in the name of the government, to sue medical manufactures under the False Claims Act.. In addition to federal whistleblower laws, various states in which we operate also have separate whistleblower laws to which we may be subject.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist stockholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities.. Responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees. Such activities could interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan. In addition, a proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting would likely require us to incur significant legal fees and proxy solicitation expenses and require significant time and attention by management and our board of directors. The perceived uncertainties as to our future direction also could affect the market price and volatility of our securities.. The tax treatment of corporations could be subject to potential legislative, administrative or judicial changes or interpretations.. The present federal income tax treatment of corporations may be modified by legislative, administrative or judicial changes or interpretations at any time. For example, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Legislation\") was enacted. The Tax Legislation significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax code.. We are unable to predict whether future modifications will be made to the U.S. corporate income tax code. Any such future changes could materially adversely affect us.. We are dependent on our key management and technical personnel for continued success.. Our senior management team is concentrated in a small number of key members, and our future success depends to a meaningful extent on the services of our executive officers and other key team members, including members of our scientific staff. Generally, our executive officers and employees can terminate their employment relationship at any time. The loss of any key employees or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel could materially harm our business and prospects.. Effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. In January 2017, we announced the appointment of Camille Farhat as Chief Executive Officer effective March 15, 2017. In September 2017, Robert Jordheim stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and we announced the appointment of Jonathon Singer as Chief Financial and Administrative Officer effective October 2, 2017. Additionally, in 2017 we continued the process of reorganizing our business, as part of our ongoing business transformation, which has resulted in a number of additional leadership changes. Disruptions in the transition or reorganization could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition and could adversely affect our ability. to attract and retain other key executives.. 24. Table of Contents. Competition for qualified leadership and scientific personnel in our industry is intense, and we compete for leadership and scientific personnel with other companies that have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified leadership and scientific personnel, and there can be no assurance that we are able to do so. Any difficulty in hiring or retaining needed personnel, or increased costs related thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition."
