[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Risks Related to Rudolph. Our operating results have varied, and will likely continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, causing volatility in our stock price.. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past and will likely continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, causing volatility in our stock price. Some of the factors that may influence our operating results and subject our stock to extreme price and volume fluctuations include:. •  changes in customer demand for our systems, which is influenced by economic conditions in the semiconductor device industry, demand for products that use semiconductors, market acceptance of our systems and products of our customers and changes in our product offerings;. •  seasonal variations in customer demand, including the tendency of European sales to slow significantly in the third quarter of each year;. •  the timing, cancellation or delay of customer orders, shipments and acceptance;. •  a significant portion of our revenue may be derived from the sale of a relatively small number of systems; accordingly, a small change in the number of systems we sell may cause significant changes in our operating results;. •  product development costs, including increased research, development, engineering and marketing expenses associated with our introduction of new products and product enhancements; and. •  the levels of our fixed expenses, including research and development costs associated with product development, relative to our revenue levels.. In light of these factors and the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, we expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results. Moreover, many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term which, together with the need for continued investment in research and development, marketing and customer support, limits our ability to reduce expenses quickly. As a result, declines in net sales could harm our business and the price of our common stock could substantially decline.. Our largest customers account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and our revenues and cash flows could decline considerably if one or more of these customers were to purchase significantly fewer of our systems or they delay or cancel a large order.. Sales to end user customers that individually represent at least five percent of our revenues typically account for, in the aggregate, a considerable amount of our revenues. We operate in the highly concentrated, capital-intensive semiconductor device manufacturing industry. Historically, a substantial portion of our revenues in each quarter and year has been derived from sales to relatively few customers, and this trend is expected to continue. If any of our key customers were to purchase significantly fewer of our systems in the future, or if they delay or cancel a large order, our revenues and cash flows could meaningfully decline. We expect that we will continue to depend on a small number of large customers for a sizable portion of our revenues. In addition, as large semiconductor device manufacturers seek to establish closer relationships with their suppliers, we expect that our customer base will become even more concentrated.. Our customers may be unable to pay us for our products and services.. Our customers include some companies that may, from time to time, encounter financial difficulties. If a customer's financial difficulties become severe, the customer may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect collections of both our accounts receivable balance and unbilled services. The bankruptcy of a customer with a substantial account balance owed to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if a customer declares bankruptcy after paying us certain invoices, a court may determine that we are not properly entitled to that payment and may require repayment of some or all of the amount we received, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Variations in the amount of time it takes for us to sell our systems may cause fluctuations in our operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline.. Variations in the length of our sales cycles could cause our revenues and cash flows, and consequently, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows, to fluctuate widely from period to period. This variation could cause our stock price to decline. Our customers generally take a long time to evaluate our inspection and/or film metrology systems and many people are involved in the evaluation process. We expend significant resources educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the uses and benefits of our systems in the semiconductor fabrication process. The length of time it takes for us to make a sale depends upon many factors, including, but not limited to:. •  the efforts of our sales force;. •  the complexity of the customer's fabrication processes;. •  the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of the customer;. •  the customer's budgetary constraints; and. •  the quality and sophistication of the customer's current metrology, inspection or lithography equipment.. Because of the number of factors influencing the sales process, the period between our initial contact with a customer and the time when we recognize revenue from that customer and receive payment, if ever, varies widely in length. Our sales cycles, including the time it takes for us to build a product to customer specifications after receiving an order to the time we recognize revenue, typically range from six to twenty-four months. Sometimes our sales cycles can be much longer, particularly with customers in Japan. During these cycles, we commit substantial resources to our sales efforts in advance of receiving any revenue, and we may never receive any revenue from a customer despite our sales efforts. If we do make a sale, our customers often purchase only one of our systems, the performance of which they then evaluate for a lengthy period before purchasing any more of our systems. The number of additional products a customer purchases, if any, depends on many factors, including the customer's capacity requirements. The period between a customer's initial purchase and any subsequent purchases can vary from six months to a year or longer, and variations in the length of this period could cause further fluctuations in our operating results and, possibly, in our stock price.. Most of our revenues have been derived from customers outside of the United States, subjecting us to operational, financial and political risks, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, political and economic instability, outbreaks of hostilities, and difficulties in managing foreign sales representatives and foreign branch operations, as well as risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.. Due to the significant level of our international sales, we are subject to a number of material risks, including:. Compliance with foreign laws. Our business is subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, including compliance with, inconsistencies among, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar, including, among other issues, with respect to employees, protection of our intellectual property, and a wide variety of operational regulations and trade and export controls under domestic, foreign, and international law.. Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements including tariffs and other market barriers. The semiconductor device industry is a high-visibility industry in many of the European and Asian countries in which we sell our products. Because the governments of these countries have provided extensive financial support to our semiconductor device manufacturing customers in these countries, we believe that our customers could be disproportionately affected by any trade embargoes, excise taxes or other restrictions imposed by their governments on trade with United States companies such as ourselves. Any restrictions of these types could result in a reduction in our sales to customers in these countries.. 14. Table of Contents. Political and economic instability. We are subject to various global risks related to political and economic instabilities in countries in which we derive sales. If terrorist activities, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability occurs outside of the U.S., these events may result in reduced demand for our products. There is considerable political instability in Taiwan related to its disputes with China and in South Korea related to its disputes with North Korea. In addition, several Asian countries, particularly Japan, have experienced significant economic instability. An outbreak of hostilities or other political upheaval in China, Taiwan or South Korea, or an economic downturn in Japan or other countries, would likely harm the operations of our customers in these countries. The effect of these types of events on our revenues and cash flows could be material because we derive substantial revenues from sales to semiconductor device foundries in Taiwan such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., from memory chip manufacturers in South Korea such as Samsung, and from semiconductor device manufacturers in Japan such as Toshiba.. Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign branch operations. During periods of tension between the governments of the United States and certain other countries, it is often difficult for United States companies such as ourselves to staff and manage operations in such countries. Language and other cultural differences may also inhibit our sales and marketing efforts and create internal communication problems among our U.S. and foreign research and development teams, increasing the difficulty of managing multiple remote locations performing various development, quality assurance, and yield ramp analysis projects.. Currency fluctuations as compared to the U.S. Dollar. A substantial portion of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, if the dollar rises in value in relation to foreign currencies, our systems will become more expensive to customers outside the United States and less competitive with systems produced by competitors outside the United States. These conditions could negatively impact our international sales. Foreign sales also expose us to collection risk in the event it becomes more expensive for our foreign customers to convert their local currencies into U.S. dollars. Additionally, in the event a larger portion of our revenue becomes denominated in foreign currencies, we would be subject to a potentially significant exchange rate risk.. If we deliver systems with defects, our credibility will be harmed and the sales and market acceptance of our systems will decrease.. Our systems are complex and have occasionally contained errors, defects and bugs when introduced. Defects may be created during probing, bumping, dicing or general handling, and can have a major impact on device and process quality. When this occurs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our systems could be harmed. Further, if our systems contain errors, defects or bugs, computer viruses or malicious code as a result of cyber attacks to our computer networks, we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate these problems. Defects could also lead to product liability as a result of product liability lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers under certain circumstances against liability arising from defects in our systems. Our product liability insurance policy currently provides $2.0 million of aggregate coverage, with an overall umbrella limit of $20.0 million. In the event of a successful product liability claim, we could be obligated to pay damages significantly in excess of our product liability insurance limits.. If we are not successful in developing new and enhanced products for the semiconductor device manufacturing industry, we will lose sales and market share to our competitors.. We operate in an industry that is highly competitive and subject to evolving industry standards, rapid technological changes, rapid changes in consumer demands and the rapid introduction of new, higher performance systems with shorter product life cycles. To be competitive in our demanding market, we must continually design, develop and introduce in a timely manner new lithography, inspection and metrology process control systems that meet the performance and price demands of semiconductor device manufacturers. We must also continue to refine our current systems so that they remain competitive. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our research and development activities. We may experience difficulties or delays in our development efforts with respect to new systems, and we may not ultimately be successful in our product enhancement efforts to improve and advance products or in responding effectively to technological change, as not all research and development activities result in viable commercial products. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to develop new products for the most opportunistic new markets and applications. Any significant delay in releasing new systems could cause our products to become obsolete, adversely affect our reputation, give a competitor a first-to-market advantage or cause a competitor to achieve greater market share.. If new products developed by us do not gain general market acceptance, we will be unable to generate revenues and recover our research and development costs.. Inspection, lithography and metrology product development is inherently risky because it is difficult to foresee developments in semiconductor device manufacturing technology, coordinate technical personnel, and identify and eliminate. 15. Table of Contents. system design flaws. Further, our products are complex and often the applications to our customers' businesses are unique. Any new systems we introduce may not achieve or sustain a significant degree of market acceptance and sales.. We expect to spend a significant amount of time and resources developing new systems and refining our existing systems. In light of the long product development cycles inherent in our industry, these expenditures will be made well in advance of the prospect of deriving revenue from the sale of those systems. Our ability to commercially introduce and successfully market new systems are subject to a wide variety of challenges during the development cycle, including start-up bugs, design defects, and other matters that could delay introduction of these systems. In addition, since our customers are not obligated by long-term contracts to purchase our systems, our anticipated product orders may not materialize, or orders that are placed may be canceled. As a result, if we do not achieve market acceptance of new products, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to recover our research and development costs and our market share, revenue, operating results or stock price would be negatively impacted.. Even if we are able to develop new products that gain market acceptance, sales of these new products could impair our ability to sell existing products.. Competition from our new systems could have a negative effect on sales of our existing systems and the prices that we could charge for these systems. We may also divert sales and marketing resources from our current systems in order to successfully launch and promote our new or next generation systems. This diversion of resources could have a further negative effect on sales of our current systems and the value of inventory.. If our relationships with our large customers deteriorate, our product development activities could be adversely affected.. The success of our product development efforts depends on our ability to anticipate market trends and the price, performance and functionality requirements of semiconductor device manufacturers. In order to anticipate these trends and ensure that critical development projects proceed in a coordinated manner, we must continue to collaborate closely with our largest customers. Our relationships with these and other customers provide us with access to valuable information regarding trends in the semiconductor device industry, which enables us to better plan our product development activities. If our current relationships with our large customers are impaired, or if we are unable to develop similar collaborative relationships with important customers in the future, our product development activities could be adversely affected.. Our ability to reduce costs is limited by our ongoing need to invest in research and development and to provide customer support activities.. Our industry is characterized by the need for continual investment in research and development as well as customer service and support. As a result, our operating results could be materially affected if operating costs associated with our research and development as well as customer support activities increase in the future or we are unable to reduce those activities.. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and, therefore, lose our competitive advantage.. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology for our principal product families, and we rely, in part, on patent and trade secret law and confidentiality agreements to protect that technology. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, it will give our competitors a significant advantage. We own or have licensed a number of patents relating to our transparent and opaque thin film metrology, lithography and macro-defect inspection systems, and have filed applications for additional patents.  Any of our pending patent applications may be rejected, and we may be unable to develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable in the future.. In addition, the patents that we do own or that have been issued or licensed to us may not provide us with competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. Further, third parties may also design around these patents. In addition to patent protection, we rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and technology. We routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and other third parties. Even though these agreements are in place, there can be no assurances that trade secrets and proprietary information will not be disclosed, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, or that we can fully protect our trade secrets and proprietary information. Violations by others of our confidentiality agreements and the loss of employees who have specialized knowledge and expertise could harm our competitive position and cause our sales and operating results to decline as a result of increased competition. Costly and time-consuming litigation might. 16. Table of Contents. be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection might adversely affect our ability to continue our research or bring products to market.. Protection of our intellectual property rights, or the efforts of third parties to enforce their own intellectual property rights against us, may result in costly and time-consuming litigation, substantial damages, lost product sales and/or the loss of important intellectual property rights.. We may be required to initiate litigation in order to enforce any patents issued to or licensed by us or to determine the scope or validity of a third party's patent or other proprietary rights. Any litigation, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming and could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to re-engineer our products or obtain expensive licenses from third parties. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us with a competitive advantage.. In addition, our commercial success depends in part on our ability to avoid infringing or misappropriating patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties. From time to time, we may receive communications from third parties asserting that our products or systems infringe, or may infringe, on the proprietary rights of these third parties. These claims of infringement may lead to protracted and costly litigation, which could require us to pay substantial damages or have the sale of our products or systems stopped by an injunction. Infringement claims could also cause product or system delays or require us to redesign our products or systems, and these delays could result in the loss of substantial revenues. We may also be required to obtain a license from the third party or cease activities utilizing the third party's proprietary rights. We may not be able to enter into such a license or such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Accordingly, the loss of important intellectual property rights could hinder our ability to sell our systems or to make the sale of these systems more expensive.  For additional information regarding recent patent litigation, see Item 3 (\"Legal Proceedings\").. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in certain foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their proprietary rights against infringement abroad. For example, Taiwan is not a signatory of the Patent Cooperation Treaty, which is designed to specify rules and methods for defending intellectual property internationally. The publication of a patent in Taiwan prior to the filing of a patent in Taiwan would invalidate the ability of a company to obtain a patent in Taiwan. Similarly, in contrast to the United States where the contents of patents remain confidential during the patent application process, in Taiwan the contents of a patent are published upon filing which provides competitors an advance view of the contents of a patent application prior to the establishment of patent rights. Consequently, there is a risk that we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights in certain foreign countries. If this occurs, it would be easier for our competitors to develop and sell competing products in these countries.. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, and increased competition could impair sales of our products or cause us to reduce our prices.. The market for semiconductor capital equipment is highly competitive. We face substantial competition from established companies in each of the markets we serve. We principally compete with KLA-Tencor, Camtek and Veeco Instruments. We compete to a lesser extent with companies such as Nanometrics, Nova Measuring Instruments and Nikon. Each of our products also competes with products that use different metrology, inspection or lithography techniques. Some of our competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources, broader product offerings and service capabilities and larger installed customer bases than we do. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or market developments by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, which, in turn, could impair sales of our products. Further, there may be significant merger and acquisition activity among our competitors and potential competitors, which, in turn, may provide them with a competitive advantage over us by enabling them to rapidly expand their product offerings and service capabilities to meet a broader range of customer needs.. Many of our customers and potential customers in the semiconductor device manufacturing industry are large companies that require global support and service for their semiconductor capital equipment. We believe that our global support and service infrastructure is sufficient to meet the needs of our customers and potential customers. However, some of our competitors have more extensive infrastructures than we do, which could place us at a disadvantage when competing for the business of global semiconductor device manufacturers. Many of our competitors are investing heavily in the development of new systems that will compete directly with our systems. We have from time to time selectively reduced prices on our systems in order to protect. 17. Table of Contents. our market share, and competitive pressures may necessitate further price reductions. We expect our competitors in each product area to continue to improve the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products with competitive prices and performance characteristics. These product introductions would likely require us to decrease the prices of our systems and increase the level of discounts that we grant our customers. Price reductions or lost sales as a result of these competitive pressures would reduce our total revenues and could adversely impact our financial results.. Because of the high cost of switching equipment vendors in our markets, it is sometimes difficult for us to win customers from our competitors even if our systems are superior to theirs.. We believe that once a semiconductor device manufacturer has selected one vendor's capital equipment for a production-line application, the manufacturer generally relies upon that capital equipment and, to the extent possible, subsequent generations of the same vendor's equipment, for the life of the application. Once a vendor's equipment has been installed in a production line application, a semiconductor device manufacturer must often make substantial technical modifications and may experience production-line downtime in order to switch to another vendor's equipment. Accordingly, unless our systems offer performance or cost advantages that outweigh a customer's expense of switching to our systems, it will be difficult for us to achieve significant sales to that manufacturer once it has selected another vendor's capital equipment for an application.. We must attract and retain experienced senior executives and other key personnel with knowledge of semiconductor device manufacturing and inspection, metrology or lithography equipment to help support our future growth, and competition for such personnel in our industry is high.. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key executive management, engineering, sales and marketing, customer support, finance and manufacturing personnel. The loss of any of these key personnel through resignations, retirement or other circumstances, each of whom would be extremely difficult to replace, could harm our business and operating results. Although we have employment and noncompetition agreements with key members of our senior management team, these individuals or other key employees may still leave us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our executives. In addition, to support our future growth, we will need to attract and retain additional qualified employees. Competition for such personnel in our industry is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified employees.. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our systems from a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and a substantial loss of revenues.. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our systems from a limited group of suppliers and do not have long-term contracts with many of our suppliers. Our dependence on limited source suppliers of components and our lack of long-term contracts with many of our suppliers exposes us to several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of components, price increases, late deliveries and poor component quality. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of our systems, damage our customer relationships and reduce our sales. From time to time in the past, we have experienced temporary difficulties in receiving shipments from our suppliers. The lead-time required for shipments of some of our components can be as long as six months. In addition, the lead time required to qualify new suppliers for lasers and certain optics could be as long as a year, and the lead time required to qualify new suppliers of other components could be as long as nine months. If we are unable to accurately predict our component needs, or if our component supply is disrupted, we may miss market opportunities by not being able to meet the demand for our systems. Further, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components or subassemblies could seriously harm our results of operations and cash flows.. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facility could have a material adverse effect on our revenues.. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex and require sophisticated and costly equipment and a specially designed facility. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facility, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, or destruction of or damage as a result of a fire or any other reason, could seriously harm our ability to satisfy our customer order deadlines. If we cannot timely deliver our systems, our results from operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. 18. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to cybersecurity risks.. Information technology systems are increasingly threatened by cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks. Cybersecurity attacks could include, but are not limited to, malicious software, viruses, attempts to gain unauthorized access, whether through malfeasance or error, either from within or outside of our organization, to our data or that of our customers or our customers' customers which may be in our possession, and the unauthorized release, corruption or loss of the data, loss of the intellectual property, theft of the proprietary or licensed technology, whether ours, that of our customers or their customers, loss or damage to our data delivery systems, other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in our critical systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events. It is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks are evolving and unpredictable and we cannot guarantee that any risk prevention measures implemented will be successful. The occurrence of such an attack could lead to financial losses and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to adjust our orders for parts and subcomponents in an accurate and timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer acceptance of our products could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Our earnings could be negatively affected and our inventory levels could materially increase if we are unable to predict our inventory needs in an accurate and timely manner and adjust our orders for parts and subcomponents should our needs increase or decrease materially due to unexpected increases or decreases in demand for our products. Any material increase in our inventories could result in an adverse effect on our financial position, while any material decrease in our ability to procure needed inventories could result in an inability to supply customer demand for our products, thus adversely affecting our revenues.. Our ability to fulfill our backlog may have an effect on our long term ability to procure contracts and fulfill current contracts.. Our ability to fulfill our backlog may be limited by our ability to devote sufficient financial and human capital resources and limited by available material supplies. If we do not fulfill our backlog in a timely manner, we may experience delays in product delivery, which would postpone receipt of revenue from those delayed deliveries. Additionally, if we are consistently unable to fulfill our backlog, this may be a disincentive to customers to award large contracts to us in the future until they are comfortable that we can effectively manage our backlog.. We may choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves, and we may be unable to complete these acquisitions or may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner.. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. To this end, we have, from time to time, engaged in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions, and from time to time acquiring one or more businesses, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. We may choose to acquire new and complementary businesses, products, technologies and/or services instead of developing them ourselves. We may, however, face competition for acquisition targets from larger and more established companies with greater financial resources, making it more difficult for us to complete acquisitions. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from one or more acquisitions that we consummate. Integrating any business, product, technology or service into our current operations could be expensive and time-consuming and/or disrupt our ongoing business. Further, there are numerous risks associated with acquisitions and potential acquisitions, including, but not limited to:. •  diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operational matters and current products and customers;. •  lack of synergy or the inability to successfully integrate the new business or to realize expected synergies;. •  failure to commercialize the new technology or business;. •  failure to meet the expected performance of the new technology or business;. •  failure to retain key employees and customer or supplier relationships;. 19. Table of Contents. •  lower-than-expected market opportunities or market acceptance of any new products; and. •  unexpected reduction of sales of existing products as a result of the introduction of new products.. Our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on favorable terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities. We might need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings to finance any acquisition. In that event, we could be forced to obtain financing on terms that are not favorable to us and, in the case of equity financing, that result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, amortization of intangible assets, write-down of other assets or charges resulting from the costs of acquisitions and purchase accounting could harm our business and operating results.. If we cannot effectively manage growth, our business may suffer.. Over the long-term, we intend to grow our business by increasing our sales efforts and completing strategic acquisitions. To effectively manage growth, we must, among other things:. •  engage, train and manage a larger sales force and additional service personnel;. •  expand the geographic coverage of our sales force;. •  expand our information systems;. •  identify and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our operations; and. •  administer appropriate financial and administrative control procedures.. Growth of our business will likely place a significant strain on our management, financial, operational, technical, sales and administrative resources. Any failure to effectively manage our growth may cause our business to suffer and our stock price to decline.. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect results.. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the (1) applicable tax laws; (2) composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates; or (3) recoverability of our deferred tax assets and liabilities.  In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, released guidance covering various topics, including country-by-country reporting, definitional changes to permanent establishment and Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, an initiative that aims to standardize and modernize global tax policy. Depending on the final form of guidance adopted by OECD members and legislation ultimately enacted, if any, there may be significant consequences for us due to our international business activities.. Turmoil or fluctuations in the credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. In the past, global credit markets and the financial services industry have experienced a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the tightening of the credit markets, the weakening of the global economy and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and other governments. Adverse economic conditions, such as sustained periods of economic uncertainty or a crisis in the financial markets may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition if our ability to obtain credit from the capital financial markets, or from trade creditors were to be impaired. In addition, a worsening economy or an economic crisis could also adversely impact our customers' ability to finance the purchase. 20. Table of Contents. of systems from us or our suppliers' ability to provide us with product, either of which may negatively impact our business and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Semiconductor Industry. Cyclicality in the semiconductor device industry has led to substantial decreases in demand for our systems and may from time to time continue to do so.. Our operating results are subject to significant variation due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor device industry. Our business depends upon the capital expenditures of semiconductor device manufacturers, which, in turn, depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products using semiconductors. The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. In recent years, the industry has experienced significant downturns, generally in connection with declines in economic conditions. This cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue and, thus, future expense levels. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During a down cycle, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed.. Our future rate of growth is highly dependent on the development and growth of the market for microelectronic device inspection, lithography and metrology equipment.. We target our products to address the needs of microelectronic device manufacturers for defect inspection, metrology and lithography.  If for any reason the market for microelectronic device inspection, lithography or metrology equipment fails to grow in the long term, we may be unable to maintain current revenue levels in the short term and maintain our historical growth in the long term. Growth in the inspection market is dependent to a large extent upon microelectronic manufacturers replacing manual inspection with automated inspection technology. Growth in the metrology market is dependent to a large extent upon new chip designs and capacity expansion of microelectronic manufacturers. Growth in the lithography market is dependent on the development of cost-effective packaging with high fine pitch RDLs, ultimately migrating to multi-die, large, form-factor packages. There is no assurance that manufacturers will undertake these actions at the rate we expect.. Risks Related to our Stock. Provisions of our charter documents and of Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and/or delay, deter or prevent a change in control of our company.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit changes in control of our company not approved by our Board of Directors. These provisions also limit the circumstances in which a premium can be paid for our common stock and in which a proxy contest for control of our board may be initiated. These provisions provide for:. •  a prohibition on stockholder actions through written consent;. •  a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our chief executive officer or Board of Directors;. •  advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations by stockholders;. •  limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal our by-laws;. •  the authority of our board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board may determine; and. •  the authority of our board, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan. Such a stockholder rights plan was adopted by the Board of Directors on June 27, 2005 and expired on June 28, 2015.. We are also entitled to avail ourselves of the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could inhibit changes in control of the Company.. 21. Table of Contents. Our stock price is volatile.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. From the beginning of 2013 through the end of 2017, our stock price fluctuated between a high of $28.10 per share and a low of $8.10 per share. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices, and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Factors affecting our stock price may include:. •  variations in operating results from quarter to quarter;. •  changes in earnings estimates by analysts or our failure to meet analysts' expectations;. •  changes in the market price per share of our public company customers;. •  market conditions in the semiconductor and other industries into which we sell products;. •  general economic conditions;. •  political changes, hostilities or natural disasters such as hurricanes and floods;. •  low trading volume of our common stock; and. •  the number of firms making a market in our common stock.. In addition, the stock market has experienced periods of significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have particularly affected the market prices of the securities of high technology companies like ours. Any such market fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. There are various risks related to the legal and regulatory environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business that may expose us to risk.. We are faced with various risks which may be associated with our compliance with existing, new, different, inconsistent or conflicting laws, regulations and rules enacted by governments and/or their regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate as well as rules and policies implemented at our customer sites. These laws, regulations, rules and policies could relate to any of an array of issues including, but not limited to, environmental, tax, intellectual property, trade secrets, product liability, contracts, antitrust, employment, securities, import/export and unfair competition. Should we fail to comply with or violate U.S. or foreign laws or regulations or customer policies, we could be subject to civil or criminal claims or proceedings that may result in monetary fines, penalties or other costs against us or our employees that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, customer relations and ability to conduct our business."
