[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following contains all known material risks that could affect our business.. Uncertain or unfavorable economic and industry conditions could adversely impact our business and operating results.. Although macro-economic risk affects most industries, the transportation industry is particularly susceptible to changes in economic and market conditions as our business relies on the strength of our customers' businesses and the level of confidence our customers have about future market conditions.  Because of this, our business may begin to slow before market slowdowns, at the point of customer uncertainty, and may recover later than market recoveries, as our customers may continue to feel uncertain about future market conditions. The long-term ChoiceLease product offering and short-term rental of commercial vehicles comprise a large portion of our business. Our vehicles are leased or rented to customers that transport goods commercially so the demand for our products is directly tied to the production and sale of goods by our customers.  As a result, when fewer goods are sold by our customers, demand for our services may decrease.  Also, sudden changes in fuel prices and fuel shortages may adversely impact the total vehicle miles driven by our customers.  If uncertainty and lack of customer confidence around macroeconomic and transportation industry conditions increase, they may impact our future growth prospects and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. In a weak or volatile economy, demand for our longer-term contractual services may decrease, waver or become less predictable as customers are often unwilling to commit to long-term lease, maintenance, dedicated services or supply chain contracts.  Contractual-based services include ChoiceLease and SelectCare contracts in our FMS business segment, dedicated services in our DTS business segment and supply chain contracts in our SCS business segment.  Accordingly, any sustained weakness in demand or a protracted economic downturn can negatively impact performance and operating results in our contractual-based service offerings. Although we experienced continued growth in ChoiceLease during 2017, our customers still remain cautious about entering into long-term leases.. Customer uncertainty may serve to increase demand for our transactional services because they do not require a long-term commitment. Transactional-based services include commercial rental and used vehicle sales in our FMS business segment. Although commercial rental demand began to stabilize in the second half of 2017, following a period of soft demand and uncertainty in the latter part of 2015 through the first half of 2017, rental demand may decline again or face more unexpected volatility in the future.. Our capital intensive business requires us to make capital decisions based upon projected customer activity levels.. We make significant investments in rental vehicles to support our rental business based on anticipated customer demand.  We make commitments to purchase the vehicles months in advance. We must predict fleet requirements and make commitments based on demand projections and various other factors.  Missing our projections could result in too much or too little capacity in our rental fleet.  Overcapacity could require us to dispose of vehicles at lower than anticipated pricing levels or result in asset write-downs and undercapacity could negatively impact our ability to reliably provide rental vehicles to our customers.. We bear the residual risk on the value of our vehicles.. Impact on Used Vehicle Sales.  We generally bear the residual risk on the value of our vehicles. Beginning in the latter part of 2015 and continuing through 2017, we saw a weakening of conditions in the used vehicle sales market, which adversely affected used vehicle sales volume and pricing, especially for tractors. If the market for used vehicles further declines, or there is a concern regarding the quality, maintenance or condition of our vehicles, we may obtain lower sales proceeds upon the sale of used vehicles, which may impact the residual value estimates of our operating fleet.We sell our used vehicles through various channels, including retail sales centers, at our branch locations, through our website at www.UsedTrucks.Ryder.com, as well as through the wholesale market.  Pricing and demand for used vehicles varies among selling channels, particularly between the retail and wholesale markets, as we generally obtain lower proceeds on vehicles sold through wholesale channels.  If we are unable to meet our targeted fleet counts through our projected mix of retail versus wholesale sales, we may be required to sell more vehicles than planned through the wholesale market, which will impact our sales proceeds.  In the latter part of 2016, we increased wholesaling activity which contributed to lower used vehicle sales results in 2016 and 2017.. 13. Impact on our ChoiceLease Product Line.  Changes in residual values also impact the overall competitiveness of our ChoiceLease product line, as estimated sales proceeds are a significant component of the overall price of the lease. Additionally, technology changes and sudden changes in supply and demand, together with other market factors beyond our control, vary from year to year and from vehicle to vehicle, making it difficult to accurately predict residual values used in calculating our depreciation expense. Although we have developed disciplines related to the management and maintenance of our vehicles designed to maintain the value of our used vehicles, there is no assurance that these practices will sufficiently reduce the residual risk. For a detailed discussion on our accounting policies and assumptions relating to depreciation and residual values, please see the \"Critical Accounting Estimates - Depreciation and Residual Value Guarantees\" section in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Our inability to maintain appropriate commercial rental fleet utilization rates could adversely impact our profitability.. In our commercial rental product line, we purchase vehicles and optimize the size and mix of the commercial rental fleet based upon our expectations of overall market demand. As a result, we bear the risk for ensuring that we have the proper vehicles in the right condition and location to effectively capitalize on market demand in order to drive the highest levels of utilization and revenue per unit. We employ a sales force and operations team on a full-time basis to manage and optimize this product line; however, their efforts may not be sufficient to overcome a significant change in market demand in the rental business.  In contrast, in our ChoiceLease product line, we typically do not purchase vehicles until we have an executed contract with a customer.. Failure to execute our growth strategy and develop, market and consistently deliver high-quality services that meet customer expectations, may cause our revenue and earnings to suffer.. Our long-term strategy includes growing our outsourcing services by targeting private fleets new to outsourcing and key industries with innovative solutions, operational excellence, and best-in-class talent and information technology.  To successfully execute on this strategy, we must continue to focus on developing effective solutions that meet our existing and target customers' evolving needs.  This requires the skills, experience and efforts of our management team and continued investment in new technology, sales and marketing. Expanding our service offerings may also require us to enter into new markets and encounter new competitive challenges, which may strain our management, capital resources, information systems and customer service.. Notwithstanding our efforts, these new or changed service offerings may not meet customer demands, prove to be profitable or succeed in the long term. If we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to current customer needs and establish and develop new customer relationships, our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and continue to grow could be negatively affected.. Even with the right solutions, our growth strategy depends on delivering consistent operational excellence and strong customer service.  Our inability to deliver our services and solutions as promised on a consistent basis, or our customers having a negative experience or otherwise becoming dissatisfied, can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect revenue and earnings growth.. We may fail to respond adequately or in a timely manner to innovative changes in new technology in our industry.. In recent years, our industry has been characterized by rapid changes in technology, leading to innovative transportation and logistics concepts that could change the way our industry does business.  For example, new concepts are currently under development for more advanced electric vehicles, automatic or semi-automatic self-driving vehicles and drones. There may be additional innovations impacting the transportation, trucking and supply chain/logistics industries that we cannot yet foresee. Our inability to quickly adapt to and adopt new innovations in products and processes desired by our customers may result in a significant loss of demand for our service offerings. In addition, advances in technology may require us to increase investments in order to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. Our lease and rental fleets could become unfavorable with our customers or obsolete within a relatively short period of time, and we may no longer be able to find buyers for our used vehicles.  An increase in customer use of electric vehicles could reduce the need for our vehicle maintenance services, diesel vehicles and related offerings.  Likewise, self-driving vehicles may reduce the need for our dedicated service offerings, where, in addition to a vehicle, Ryder provides a driver as part of an integrated, full service customer solution.. 14. Failure to maintain, upgrade and consolidate our information technology networks could adversely affect us.. The success of our strategic initiatives designed to increase our sales and capture a greater percentage of the outsourced transportation and supply chain markets is dependent in varying degrees on the timely delivery and the functionality of information technology systems to support them.  Extended delays or cost overruns in securing, developing and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support the new business initiatives we are developing now, and will be developing in the future, would delay and possibly even prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of these initiatives. Advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments. In addition, our reputation with our customers may suffer if outages, system failures or delays in timely access to data occur in legacy information technology systems that support key business processes.. We are continuously upgrading and consolidating our systems, including enhancing legacy systems, replacing legacy systems with successor systems and acquiring new systems with newer functionality. These types of activities subject us to additional costs and inherent risks associated with replacing and modifying these systems, including impairment of our ability to provide our services, potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, additional administration and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the new systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or integrating new systems into our current systems. Our system implementations may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and operations, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated.. We may be subject to cybersecurity risks, some of which are beyond our control.. We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business, including communications and data processing systems.  It is important that the data processed by these systems remains confidential, as it often includes competitive customer information, confidential customer transaction data, employee records, and key financial and operational results and statistics. Failure to prevent or mitigate data loss or system intrusions from cybersecurity attacks or other security breaches could expose us or our vendors or customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, adversely affect our operating results, result in litigation or potential liability for us and otherwise harm our business. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others who access our systems may pose a risk that sensitive customer or vendor data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public, adversely impacting our customer service, employee relationships and our reputation.. In addition, portions of our business utilize information systems that provide critical services to both our employees and our customers. Cyber incidents that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy, or other proper functioning of these information systems could have a significant impact on our operations. Some of our software applications are utilized by third parties who provide outsourced administrative functions, which may increase the risk of a cybersecurity incident. Our information systems are protected through physical and software safeguards as well as backup systems considered appropriate by management. However, we may be unable to fully protect against the possibility of damage or breach created by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, cybersecurity or other security attacks in every potential circumstance that may arise.. We and the vehicle and equipment manufacturers in our FMS business rely on a small number of suppliers.. We buy vehicles and related equipment from a relatively small number of original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in our FMS business. Some of our vehicle manufacturers rely on a small concentration of suppliers for certain vehicle parts, components and equipment. A discrete event in a particular OEM's or supplier's industry or location, or adverse regional economic conditions impacting an OEM or supplier's ability to provide vehicles or a particular component, could adversely impact our FMS business and profitability. In addition, our business and reputation could also be negatively impacted if any parts, components or equipment from one of our suppliers suffer from broad-based quality control issues or become the subject of a product recall and we are unable to obtain replacement parts from another supplier in a timely manner.. 15. We derive a significant portion of our SCS and DTS segment revenue from a relatively small number of customers.. During 2017, sales to our top ten SCS customers representing all of the industry groups we service accounted for 53% of our SCS total revenue and 48% of our SCS operating revenue (total revenue less fuel and subcontracted transportation). Additionally, approximately 40% of our global SCS revenue is from the automotive industry and is directly impacted by automotive vehicle production. Our top ten DTS customers accounted for 46% of DTS total revenue and 39% of DTS operating revenue. The loss of any of these customers or a significant reduction in the services provided to any of these customers could impact our operations and adversely affect our SCS or DTS segment financial results. While we continue to focus our efforts on diversifying our customer base, we may not be successful in doing so in the short-term.. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our SCS and DTS customers. If one or more of these customers were to become bankrupt, insolvent or otherwise were unable to pay for the services provided by us, we may incur significant write-offs of accounts receivable or incur lease or asset impairment charges that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. In addition, many of our customers operate in cyclical or seasonal industries, or operate in industries, including the food and beverage industry, that may be impacted by unanticipated weather, growing conditions (such as drought, insects or disease), natural disasters and other conditions over which we have no control. A downturn in our customers' businesses or unanticipated events impacting their businesses could cause a reduction in freight volume shipped by those customers or a reduction in their need for our SCS or DTS services.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business may suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other competitive factors.. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following:. • our inability to obtain expected customer retention levels or sales growth targets;. • we compete with many other transportation and logistics service providers, some of which have greater capital resources than we do;. • customers may choose to provide the services we provide for themselves;. • some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, and some of our smaller competitors may have lower cost structures than we do, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices; and. • because cost of capital is a significant competitive factor, any increase in either the cost of our debt or equity as a result of reductions in our debt rating or stock price volatility could have a significant impact on our competitive position.. Our profitability could be negatively impacted if the key operational assumptions and pricing structure prove to be invalid.. Substantially all of our ChoiceLease, SelectCare, DTS and SCS services are provided under contractual arrangements with our customers. The pricing structure for our ChoiceLease and SelectCare business is based on certain assumptions regarding capital costs, our ability to acquire equipment at competitive rates from our suppliers, maintenance expense over the life of the contract, particularly in light of new engine technologies, residual values, productivity, and the mix of fixed and variable costs, many of which are derived from historical data and trends. Under most of our SCS contracts, all or a portion of our pricing is based on certain assumptions regarding the scope of services, production volumes, operational efficiencies, the mix of fixed versus variable costs, productivity and other factors.. If we are incorrect in our assumptions, or as a result of subsequent changes in our customers' business needs or operations, or market forces that are outside of our control, these assumptions prove to be invalid, we could have lower margins than anticipated or be unable to offer competitive products and services. Although some of our SCS contracts provide for renegotiation upon a material change, there is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary price adjustments.. 16. We may face difficulties in attracting and retaining drivers and technicians.. Drivers.  We hire drivers primarily for our DTS business segment. There is significant competition for qualified drivers in the transportation industry. Additionally, interventions and enforcement under the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) Compliance, Safety, Accountability program may shrink the industry's pool of drivers as those drivers with unfavorable scores may no longer be eligible to drive for us. As a result of driver shortages, we could be required to increase driver compensation, let trucks sit idle, utilize lower quality drivers or face difficulty meeting customer demands, all of which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. Technicians.  Similarly, we hire technicians in our FMS business segment to perform vehicle maintenance services on our ChoiceLease, SelectCare and rental fleets. In recent years, there has been a decrease in the overall supply of skilled maintenance technicians, particularly new technicians with qualifications from technical programs and schools, which could make it more difficult to attract and retain skilled technicians.. We may face issues with our union employees.. We have approximately 4,100 employees that are organized by labor unions whose wages and benefits are governed by 101 labor agreements that are renegotiated periodically. Some of the industries in which we currently engage have experienced a material work stoppage, slowdown or strike. Our business and operations could be impacted in the event of labor strikes or work stoppages involving our employees organized by labor unions in our FMS, DTS or SCS business segments.. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could significantly increase our costs of doing business.. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. These agencies could institute new laws, rules or regulations or issue interpretation changes to existing regulations at any time. We have also seen an increase in proactive enforcement of existing regulations by some entities. Compliance with new laws, rules or regulations could substantially impair labor and equipment productivity, increase our costs or impact our ability to offer certain services. Conversely, our failure to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments. We are also subject to reputational risk and other detrimental business consequences associated with noncompliance by other parties with whom we engage with, such as employees, customers, agents, suppliers or other persons using our supply chain or assets to commit illegal acts, including the use of company assets for terrorist activities, or a breach of data privacy laws.. U.S. Department of Transportation Regulations.  The DOT and various local, state and federal agencies exercise broad powers over our motor carrier operations, safety and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste materials. Any regulatory initiatives could increase costs or operating complexity in the various states in which we operate.. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) Compliance, Safety, Accountability Program.  The FMCSA's Compliance, Safety, Accountability program may increase the cost for our customers given the potential impact to the driver pool, the additional hours of service requirements and additional investment in vehicle equipment.  In addition, although Ryder's scores are below the thresholds that would trigger concern, if performance worsens, we could risk intervention that may create risk to our operating authority.. Labor and Employment Laws and Regulations.  We maintain operations and employees in numerous states throughout the United Sates, which are governed by federal and state labor and employment laws and regulations relating to compensation, benefits, healthcare and various workplace issues, all of which are applicable to our employees, and in some cases, independent contractors. State labor and employment rules vary from state to state and in some states, require us to meet much stricter standards than required in other states. Also, we are parties to various class-action lawsuits related to wage and hour violations and improper pay in certain states and may become exposed to similar litigation in the future. Unfavorable or unanticipated outcomes in any of such lawsuits could subject us to increased costs and impact our profitability.. 17. International Laws Governing Countries Where We Have Operations.  We currently operate in Canada, Europe, Mexico and Singapore, where we are subject to compliance with local laws and regulatory requirements of foreign jurisdictions, including local tax laws, and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws. Local laws and regulatory requirements may vary significantly from country to country. Customary levels of compliance with local regulations and the tolerance for noncompliance by regulatory authorities may also vary in different countries and geographical locations, and impact our ability to successfully implement our compliance and business initiatives in certain jurisdictions. Also, adherence to rigorous local laws and regulatory requirements may limit our ability to expand into certain international markets and result in residual liability for legal claims and tax disputes arising out of previously discontinued operations.  In addition, continued uncertainty resulting from the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union (Brexit) could adversely impact our (or our customers) business, financial condition and results of operations.. Laws Governing the Operations of our Customers.  The U.S. government or governments of other nations that regulate the operations of our customers or any instituted laws relating to cross-border tariffs or other penalties could disrupt international or domestic supply chain operations.  The laws could adversely affect the ability for customers to continue their international operations, which would have a negative impact on the demand for our services.. Environmental Regulations Regarding Vehicle Exhaust Emissions, Carbon Emissions and Climate Change May Negatively Impact our Business.  Current and future regulations governing vehicle exhaust emissions could adversely impact our business. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued regulations that required progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from certain diesel engines. The EPA Phase 2 vehicle emission requirements for medium and heavy-duty vehicles will include technology-advancing standards that substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions and fuel consumption, allowing vehicle manufacturers to meet standards over time through a mix of different technologies. Rules impacting 2017 - 2027 model years require reductions in carbon dioxide, which can only be reduced by improving fuel economy, and which require compliance with different emissions standards for both engines and chassis, based on vocation. OEMs may be required to install additional engine componentry, additional aerodynamics on chassis and low-rolling resistance tires to comply with the regulations, which may result in higher operating costs associated with the more complex componentry and a shorter useful tread life for tires and increased operating costs for customers and us.. Although customers may see reduced fuel consumption under  new vehicle emission standards, this could be offset by higher maintenance costs per mile. Each of these requirements could also result in higher prices for vehicles, diesel engine fuel and vehicle maintenance, which are passed on to our customers, as well as higher maintenance costs and uncertainty as to reliability of the new engines, all of which could, over time, increase our costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. New engine technologies may also impact the residual values of these vehicles when sold in the future.. Future regulation of other environmental matters, including potential limits on carbon emissions under climate-change legislation, could also impact our business and profitability if enacted.. Other Regulations.  We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Customs Service or other authorities.. New lease accounting rules may negatively impact customer demand for our ChoiceLease product.. Demand for our ChoiceLease product line is based in part on customers' decisions to lease rather than buy vehicles. A number of factors can impact whether customers decide to lease or buy vehicles, including economic benefits, accounting considerations, tax treatment, interest rates and operational flexibility. In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new standard on lease accounting that differs from current practice. Most notably, the new approach eliminates off-balance sheet treatment of leases and require lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on their balance sheets for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months. This new accounting standard must be implemented by public companies beginning with fiscal years that start after December 15, 2018, although companies may opt to adopt the standard before this date.  Implementation of the new standard could be perceived to make leasing a less attractive option for some of our ChoiceLease customers.. 18. Changes in income tax regulations for U.S. and multinational companies may increase our tax liability.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law U.S. federal tax legislation (the \"2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\"), which includes a broad range of tax reform measures affecting businesses, including the lowering of corporate income tax rates, limits on interest deductibility, incentives for capital spending by permitting full expensing of the purchase of qualifying assets, the loss of certain business deductions, the loss of like-kind exchange programs for our assets and modifications of international tax provisions.  These changes will not only impact our company, but will impact our customers' businesses as well as the economy in general. While we currently believe these changes in the aggregate will have a positive effect on the Company and the overall economy, we cannot predict this with certainty.  Further, the U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the European Union, and other government agencies in jurisdictions in which we and our affiliates invest or do business have maintained a focus on the taxation of multinational companies. The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, is supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits between affiliated entities in different tax jurisdictions.  The European Union has a number of on-going tax initiatives.  Certain of the proposals for further tax reform, if enacted by the United States or any state thereof or by other jurisdictions in which we or our affiliates invest or do business, could adversely affect us. It is unclear what any actual legislation would provide or what its prospects for enactment would be.. Volatility in assumptions and asset values related to our pension plans may reduce our profitability and adversely impact current funding levels.. We historically sponsored a number of defined benefit plans for employees not covered by union-administered plans, including certain employees in foreign countries. The retirement benefits under the defined benefit plans are frozen for non-grandfathered and certain non-union employees. Our major defined benefit plans are funded through qualified pension trusts, with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio. The cash contributions made to our defined benefit trusts are required to comply with minimum funding requirements imposed by employee benefit and tax laws. The aggregate projected benefit obligations and plan assets of our global defined benefit pension plans as of December 31, 2017, were $2.3 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, is a significant factor in determining pension expense and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Macroeconomic factors, as well as changes in investment returns and discount rates used to calculate pension expense and related assets and liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact on our costs and funding requirements. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs and funding requirements through investment policies and plan contributions, as well as through a lump-sum buyout offer in 2015, there can be no assurance that we will succeed, and continued cost pressure could reduce the profitability of our business and negatively impact our cash flows.. We are subject to risk of multi-employer pension plan withdrawal.. We participate in certain U.S. multi-employer pension (MEP) plans that provide defined benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. In the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make an additional lump-sum contribution to the plan. Our withdrawal liability for any MEP plan would depend on the extent of the plan's funding of vested benefits. Economic conditions have caused MEP plans to be significantly underfunded. As a result, although we have taken steps in recent years to withdraw from these MEP plans, we may still have liability for at least a period of time following our withdrawal. If the financial condition of the MEP plans were to continue to deteriorate, we could be subject to additional assessments.. We establish self-insurance reserves based on historical loss development factors, which could lead to adjustments in the future based on actual development experience.. We retain a portion of the accident risk under vehicle liability and workers' compensation insurance programs. Our self-insurance accruals are based on actuarially estimated, undiscounted cost of claims, which includes claims incurred but not reported. While we believe that our estimation processes are well designed, every estimation process is inherently subject to limitations. Fluctuations in the frequency or severity of accidents make it difficult to precisely predict the ultimate cost of claims. The actual cost of claims can be different than the historical selected loss development factors because of safety performance, payment patterns and settlement patterns. For a detailed discussion on our accounting policies and assumptions relating to our self-insurance reserves, please see the \"Critical Accounting Estimates - Self-Insurance Accruals\" section in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. 19. Severe weather or other natural occurrences could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures in excess of available insurance coverage.. Our operations may be affected by external factors such as severe weather and other natural occurrences, including floods, fires, hurricanes and earthquakes at operating locations where we have vehicles, warehouses and other facilities. As a result, our vehicles and facilities may be damaged, our workforce may be unavailable, fuel costs may rise and significant business interruptions could occur. In addition, the performance of our vehicles could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions. Insurance to protect against loss of business and other related consequences resulting from these natural occurrences is subject to coverage limitations, depending on the nature of the risk insured. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Even with insurance, if any natural occurrence leads to a catastrophic interruption of service, we may not be able to mitigate a significant interruption in operations.. Our international operations subject us to operational and financial risks.. We provide services outside of the U.S., which subjects our business to various risks, including changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxes; difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations and agents; foreign currency fluctuations and limitations on the repatriation of funds due to foreign currency controls; different liability standards; and intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our rights in intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region.  Also, if we do not correctly anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions, we may not alter our business practices in time to avoid adverse effects.. We may be negatively impacted by adverse events in the global credit and financial markets.. In general, we rely in large part upon global credit and financial markets to fund our operations and contractual commitments and refinance existing debt.  These markets can experience high levels of volatility and access to capital can be constrained for extended periods of time. Significant uncertainty, volatility, disruptions or downturns in the global credit and financial markets may result in:. •  unanticipated interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations;. •  increased risk of default by counterparties under derivative instruments and hedging agreements;. •  diminished liquidity and credit availability resulting in higher short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms; and. •  restricted access to capital and increased cost of capital and financing sources.. 20"
