[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity could be adversely affected by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties we describe are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business or operations. Any adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or liquidity could result in a decline in the value of our common stock and other securities.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. Our business largely depends on the levels of exploration and development activity in the oil and natural gas industry, a historically cyclical industry. A decrease in this activity caused by low oil and natural gas prices, increased supply, and reduced demand, such as has occurred over the last several years, has had an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations.. 12. Demand for our services depends upon the level of spending by oil and natural gas companies for exploration, production, development and field management activities, which depend, in part, on oil and natural gas supplies and prices. The markets for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. In addition to the market prices of oil and natural gas, our customers' willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control. A decline in oil and natural gas exploration activities and commodity prices, as has occurred over the last several years, has adversely affected the demand for our services and our results of operations.. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas and our customers' desire to explore, develop and produce include:. • the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. • expectations about future prices for oil and natural gas;. • the worldwide political, military and economic conditions;. • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil;. • the rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves and the decline of existing oil and natural gas reserves;. • the cost of exploring for, developing and producing oil and natural gas;. • the ability of exploration and production companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain capital for exploration, development and production operations;. • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production and consumption;. • government policies, including environmental regulations and tax policies, regarding the exploration for, production and development of oil and natural gas reserves, the use of fossil fuels and alternative energy sources and climate change;. • weather conditions, including large-scale weather events such as hurricanes that affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area or affect prices; and. • changes in the Alaskan oil and gas tax credit system which may significantly affect the level of exploration spending within Alaska and has negatively affected our current liquidity position.. Since the third quarter of 2014, oil prices have declined significantly due in large part to increasing supplies, weakening demand growth, some oil and gas producing countries' position to not cut production and the lifting of sanctions against Iran. While the price of crude oil has recovered from its low, it still has not reached pre-2014 prices.. As a result of these decreases in crude oil prices, many E&P companies have reduced their capital expenditures, which has resulted in diminished demand for our services and products and downward pressure on the prices we charge or the level of work we do for our customers.. We cannot assure you that the exploration and development activities by our customers will be maintained at current levels. Any significant decline in exploration or production-related spending by our customers, whether due to a decrease in the market prices for oil and natural gas or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, increases in oil and natural gas prices may not increase demand for our products and services or otherwise have a positive effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our revenues are subject to fluctuations that are beyond our control, which may be significant and could adversely affect our results of operations in any financial period.. Our operating results may vary in material respects from quarter to quarter. Factors that cause variations include the timing of the receipt and commencement of contracts for seismic data acquisition, processing or interpretation and customers' budgetary cycles, all of which are beyond our control. In addition, in any given period, we could have idle crews which result in a significant portion of our revenues, cash flows and earnings coming from a relatively small number of crews. Lower crew utilization rates can be caused by land access permit and weather delays, seasonal factors such as holiday schedules, shorter winter days or agricultural or hunting seasons, and crew repositioning and crew utilization and productivity. Additionally, due to location, type of service or particular project, some of our individual crews may achieve results that constitute a significant percentage of our consolidated operating results. Should any of our crews experience changes in timing or delays due to one or more of these factors, our financial results could be subject to significant variations from period to period. Combined with our fixed costs, these revenue fluctuations could also produce unexpected adverse results of operations in any fiscal period.. 13. In addition to the above potential fluctuations in our revenue, we may also have significant third-party pass-through costs that are reflected in our revenues but correspond to a very small administrative margin charged to the customer. Therefore, our revenues for certain periods may include a large amount of these third-party charges and can cause our gross profit margin to be lower.. Revenues derived from our projects may not be sufficient to cover our costs of completing those projects or may not result in the profit we anticipated when we entered into the contract.. Our revenue is determined, in part, by the prices we receive for our services, the productivity of our crews and the accuracy of our cost estimates. The productivity of our crews is partly a function of external factors, such as weather and third-party delays, over which we have no control. In addition, cost estimates for our projects may be inadequate due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions, resulting in cost over-runs. If our crews encounter operational difficulties or delays, or if we have not correctly priced our services, our results of operation may vary and, in some cases, may be adversely affected.. Our projects are performed on both a turnkey basis where a defined amount and scope of work is provided by us for a fixed price and additional work, which is subject to customer approval, is billed separately, and is performed on a term basis where work is provided by us for a fixed hourly, daily or monthly fee. The relative mix of turnkey and term agreements, as related to our projects, can vary widely from time to time. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from our estimated amount because of changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, and the performance of subcontractors. In addition, if conditions exist on a particular project that were not anticipated in the customer contract such as excessive weather delays, community issues, governmental issues or equipment failure, then the revenue timing and amount from a project can be affected substantially. Turnkey contracts may also cause us to bear substantially all of the risks of business interruption caused by weather delays and other hazards. Those variations, delays and risks inherent in billing customers at a fixed price may result in us experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects.. The significant fixed costs of our operations could result in operating losses.. We are subject to significant fixed operating costs, which primarily consist of depreciation and maintenance expenses associated with our equipment, certain crew costs and interest expense on our outstanding indebtedness. Extended periods of significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures, permit delays or other causes could negatively affect our results and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we will not be able to reduce our fixed costs as fast as revenues decline.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by asset impairments.. We periodically review our portfolio of equipment for impairment. A prolonged downturn could affect the carrying value of our equipment or other assets and require us to recognize a loss. We may be required to write down the value of our equipment if the present value of future cash flows anticipated to be generated from the related equipment falls below net book value. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, can result in future impairments. Because the impairment of long-lived assets or goodwill would be recorded as an operating expense, such a write-down would negatively affect our net income and may result in a breach of certain of our financial covenants under the terms of the documents governing our indebtedness.. Our working capital needs are difficult to forecast and may vary significantly, which could cause liquidity issues and require us to seek additional financing that we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms, or at all.. Our working capital needs are difficult to predict with certainty. Our available cash varies in material respects as a result of, among other things, the timing of our projects, our customers' budgetary cycles and our receipt of payment. In particular, delays in receiving payments on our accounts receivable relating to our Alaskan tax credits discussed below may cause liquidity issues for us in the future.  Our working capital requirements may continue to increase, due to contraction in our business or expansion of infrastructure that may be required to keep pace with technological advances. Over time, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand our seismic data acquisition capabilities. In addition, some of our larger projects require significant upfront costs. We therefore may be subject to significant and rapid increases in our working capital needs that could require us to seek additional financing sources. While we currently have a senior loan facility and a credit facility, and we have reduced our outstanding indebtedness as a result of the Restructurings, we are at our borrowing limits under the senior loan facility and have to obtain lender approval to borrow additional funds under our credit facility.  Our current cash flow and liquidity difficulties may impair our ability to obtain other sources of financing, and access to additional sources of financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. 14. Developments in the State of Alaska and their consequences for the market for exploration tax credits and the impacts of those developments on our cash flow have intensified the negative impact on our current liquidity and cash flow.. At December 31, 2017, our largest accounts receivable from one customer was $78.1 million, representing 93% of total consolidated accounts receivable. This customer was relying on monetization of Alaskan exploration tax credits (\"Tax Credits\"), which monetization was historically accomplished by receipt of predictable payments from the State of Alaska or from third party financing sources.  Due to changed economic and political circumstances in the State of Alaska, however, substantial uncertainty regarding the timing of payments from the State of Alaska has developed, which has affected the availability of funding from other sources, which in turn has affected the timing of our receiving payments on this account receivable.  As a result, as of December 31, 2017, we classified the entire receivable from the customer as a long-term accounts receivable totaling $78.1 million, including an additional $42.1 million reclassification to long-term accounts receivable during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.. Due to our customer's inability to monetize the Tax Credits, our customer assigned $89.0 million of Tax Credits to us as security so that we could seek to monetize these Tax Credits and apply the resulting cash, as monetization occurs, toward our customer's overdue account receivable.  As of December 31, 2017, the State of Alaska has completed its audits of approximately $59.1 million of Tax Credit applications. These audits resulted in our receiving approximately $56.2 million of Tax Credit certificates from the State of Alaska in 2016 and 2017.  Subsequent to December 31, 2017, the State of Alaska completed its audit of $8.6 million of Tax Credit applications. This audit and the successful appeal of certain previously disallowed expenses resulted in our receiving an additional $8.3 million and $2.9 million of Tax Credit certificates, for a total of $64.5 million of Tax Credit certificates.  In 2018 we expect that the State of Alaska will complete its audit on the last Tax Credit application for approximately $21.3 million.. We recorded a reduction of the accounts receivable balance of $3.5 million and $10.9 million related to the monetization of Tax Credit certificates during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, from the sale of some of our Tax Credit certificates at a slight discount to an Alaskan producer of oil and gas that used the certificates to satisfy production taxes it owed to the State of Alaska.. We have identified a number of paths to payment of our account receivable.  These paths include receiving payment on the account receivable by the following means: (i) receiving cash in payment in full of the Tax Credit certificates from the State of Alaska, (ii) receiving proceeds from the possible issuance by the State of Alaska of bonds to pay its Tax Credit liabilities at a discount, (iii) selling Tax Credit certificates into the secondary market to producers at a discount, (iv) receiving cash from a third party to purchase Tax Credit certificates at what is likely to be a more substantial discount, (v) receiving license fees from additional licenses of the seismic data produced for the customer and (vi) selling some or all the seismic data produced for the customer.  There can be no assurance that we will receive payment in full of our accounts receivable from these paths, but we continue to diligently pursue them.. Historically, the State of Alaska annually appropriated the amounts needed to pay all Tax Credit certificates for the prior fiscal year.  Falling oil and gas prices have substantially reduced Alaska's revenue from production taxes resulting in significant Alaskan budget deficits.  While the Alaskan legislature has appropriated funds for the last two fiscal years to pay outstanding Tax Credit certificates, the Alaskan Governor has vetoed the line item in each year, and limited the appropriation in the last fiscal year to the statutorily established minimum amount of appropriations.  In February 2018 we were advised by the State of Alaska that, so long as the payment is limited to the statutorily established minimum amount, we should not expect to receive any payments until fiscal year 2021 and possibly should not expect to be fully paid until fiscal year 2024.  In addition, the Alaskan Department of Revenue has acted to limit the secondary market for Tax Credit certificates by not only slowing down the timing for auditing Tax Credit applications and for making payments, but also by issuing advisory opinions in the third quarter of 2016 and the first quarter of 2017 that, contrary to earlier advice, effectively cut-off the secondary market for Tax Credit certificates.  These advisory rulings cut -off using transferred Tax Credit certificates for prior years' tax obligations and not allowing them to be used to pay taxes owed below the four percent minimum production tax rate.  While in mid-2017, the Alaska legislature subsequently reversed the prohibition on using transferred Tax Credit certificates for prior years' obligations, to date transferred Tax Credit certificates cannot be used to go below the four percent floor, and the secondary market remains inactive.. One recent development may accelerate payment of the account receivable.  The Governor of Alaska has introduced legislation to allow Alaska to issue bonds to pay-off at a discount its approximately $1.2 billion liability for Tax Credits.  There can be no assurance, however, that this alternative will provide a viable means to monetize our Tax Credit certificates.. We continue to explore all the options described above to monetize the Tax Credit certificates.  We continue to believe that selling the certificates at a discount to producers that are able to apply the certificates to reduce their own Alaskan tax liabilities should yet again become a viable monetization option. We have a contract with a producer that provides that the producer will purchase our Tax Credit certificates to the extent that it can use them to satisfy its tax liabilities.   In December 2017 the active Alaskan. 15. producers agreed to a $786 million settlement regarding tariffs relating to the Trans Alaskan pipeline with FERC, which was approved by FERC in March 2018 that will result in significantly increased production taxes being owed by the producers to the State of Alaska.  Those taxes could be satisfied by purchase of Tax Credit certificates at a discount to the face value of the Tax Credit certificate. Alternatively we could sell our Tax Credit certificates to other third parties, at a discount.  We also believe that rising oil prices may increase the market for the Tax Credit certificates, but there can be no assurance that prices will increase sufficient to improve the market or when it might occur.. We have other possible ways to receive payments on its account receivable that do not involve monetization of the Tax Credits. We continue to assist the customer in actively marketing and licensing of the seismic data we collected on behalf of our customer.  Licensing revenues received must be paid to us in satisfaction of our account receivable.   In addition, subject to any licenses granted, our customer has the right to sell the data and apply the proceeds to our receivable.  We believe that the receipt of these licensing revenues and sales proceeds may be sufficient to cover the difference between the outstanding account receivable and the cash we are able to generate by monetization of the Tax Credits, but there can be no assurance that it will occur or when any such payments will be received.. A risk exists that any monetization of the Tax Credit certificates will require a selling at a discount, and that the discount may be substantial, resulting in proceeds insufficient to fully repay the customer's outstanding account receivable. Should this result, and we do not receive additional payments from our customer from either licensing or selling the seismic data, we may be required to record an impairment to the amount due from our customer, which may materially and adversely affect us.. As part of the 2016 Restructuring, we entered into a senior loan facility, which added up to $30.0 million in additional liquidity.  The senior loan facility is secured by a junior first lien on our accounts receivable, which includes the Tax Credits and certificates evidencing the Tax Credits. Those Tax Credits and certificates are also pledged on a senior first lien basis to the lender under our credit facility.   All proceeds from monetizing the Tax Credits or Tax Credit certificates are paid into an account at the lender under the credit facility and automatically reduce the amount we have borrowed under that line of credit.  The senior loan facility requires that once we have received $15 million in proceeds from the Tax Credits or Tax Credit certificates, unless waived by the lenders (or individual lenders) under the senior loan facility, mandatory repayments of the amount received for the Tax Credits or Tax Credit certificates must be made.   As a result, once we have received $15 million in proceeds from the Tax Credits or Tax Credit certificates, and until the outstanding balance on the senior loan facility is paid in full, the amount owed to the lender under the senior loan facility must come from cash or from a borrowing of the amount under our credit facility.  Currently, however, we have borrowed the full amount that is committed under the credit facility.. Until we are able to finally resolve the issue described above, we may continue to experience liquidity and cash flow issues. The Restructurings, provided significant levels of short term liquidity, which should mitigated the acuteness of this issue, but there can be no assurance that they will solve the issue of our need to monetize our Tax Credit certificates.. Our operations are subject to weather and seasonality, which may affect our ability to timely complete projects.. Our seismic data acquisition services are performed outdoors and often in difficult or harsh climate conditions, and are therefore subject to weather and seasonality. In Canada and Alaska, the primary season for seismic data acquisition is during the winter, from December to April, as many areas are only accessible when the ground is frozen. The weather conditions during this time of year can affect the timing and efficiency of operations. In addition, this prime season can be shortened by warmer weather conditions.. In South America and Southeast Asia, our operations are affected by the periods of heavy rain in the areas where seismic operations are conducted. In all areas in which we operate, the weather is an uncontrollable factor that affects our operations at various times of the year. Due to the unpredictability of weather conditions, there may be times when adverse conditions may cause our operations to be delayed and result in additional costs and may negatively affect our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to delays related to obtaining government permits and land access rights from third parties which could result in delays affecting our results of operations.. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by our inability to obtain timely right of way usage from both public and private land and/or mineral owners. We cannot begin surveys on property without obtaining any required permits from governmental entities as well as the permission of the private landowners who own the land being surveyed. In recent years, it has become more difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain access rights of way as drilling activities have expanded into more populated areas. Additionally, while landowners generally are cooperative in granting access rights, some have become more resistant to seismic and drilling activities occurring on their property. In addition, governmental entities do not always grant permits. 16. within the time periods expected. Delays associated with obtaining such permits and rights of way may negatively affect our results of operations.. Our backlog can vary significantly from time to time and our backlog estimates are based on certain assumptions and are subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and thus may not be timely converted to revenues in any particular fiscal period, if at all, or be indicative of our actual operating results for any future period.. Our backlog estimates represent those projects for which a customer has executed a contract or signed a binding letter of award. Our backlog can vary significantly from time to time, particularly if the backlog is made up of multi-year contracts with some of our more significant customers. Backlog estimates are based on a number of assumptions and estimates including assumptions related to foreign exchange rates and proportionate performance of contracts. The realization of our backlog estimates is further affected by our performance under term rate contracts, as the early or late completion of a project under term rate contracts will generally result in decreased or increased, as the case may be, revenues derived from those projects. Contracts for services are also occasionally modified by mutual consent and often can be terminated for convenience by the customer. Because of potential changes in the scope or schedule of our customers' projects, and the possibility of early termination of customer contracts, we cannot predict with certainty when or if our backlog will be realized. Material delays, payment defaults or cancellations on the underlying contracts could reduce the amount of backlog currently reported and, consequently, could inhibit the conversion of that backlog into revenues. In addition, worsening overall market conditions could result in further reductions of backlog which will impact our financial performance.. We face intense competition in our business that could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share.. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and likely will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, asset availability and capacity, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. We also face increasing competition from nationally owned companies in various international jurisdictions that operate under less significant financial constraints than those we experience. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, more customers, greater market recognition and more established relationships and alliances in the industry than we do. They and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production levels, as well as changes in government regulations. Additionally, the seismic data acquisition business is extremely price competitive and has a history of protracted periods of months or years where seismic contractors under financial duress bid jobs at unattractive pricing levels and therefore adversely affect industry pricing. Competition from those and other competitors could result in downward pricing pressure, which could adversely affect our margins, and could result in the loss of market share.. Capital requirements for the technology we use can be significant. If we are unable to finance these requirements, we may not be able to maintain our competitive advantage.. Seismic data acquisition technologies historically have steadily improved and progressed, and, over the long-term, we expect this trend to continue. Manufacturers of seismic equipment may develop new systems that have competitive advantages relative to systems now in use that either render the equipment we currently use obsolete or require us to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain our competitive position. In order to remain competitive, we may need to continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand our seismic data acquisition capabilities.. Our capital requirements, which are primarily the cost of equipment, historically have been significant. We attempt to minimize our capital expenditures by restricting our purchase of equipment to equipment that we believe will remain highly utilized, and we strategically rent equipment utilizing the most current technology to cover peak periods in equipment demands. We may not be able to finance all of our capital requirements, however, when and if needed, to acquire new equipment. If we are unable to do so, there may be a material negative impact on our operations and financial condition.  Under our current business model, however, capital expenditures will be kept at minimum levels, other than for maintenance expenditures, until we see improvement in the market for seismic services. While we own or can rent the equipment needed for our current levels of business, long-term limiting our capital expenditures may result in an increased competitive disadvantage.. Our revenues are generated by a concentrated number of customers.. We derive our revenues from a concentrated customer base in the international oil and natural gas industry. Although we historically have not been dependent on any one customer, recently we had one customer that has represented a significant portion of our accounts receivable. Our largest customers can and typically do change from year to year and our largest customers in any one year may not be indicative of our largest customers in the future. If any of our customers were to terminate their contract with us on a large project or fail to contract for our services in the future because they are acquired, alter their exploration or development. 17. strategy, experience financial difficulties, as a result of concerns over our current cash flow and liquidity difficulties or for any other reason, and we were not able to replace their business with business from other customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We operate under hazardous conditions that subject us and our employees to risk of damage to property or personal injury and limitations on our insurance coverage may expose us to potentially significant liability costs.. Our activities are often conducted in dangerous environments and include hazardous conditions, including operation of heavy equipment, the detonation of explosives, and operations in remote areas of developing countries. Operating in such environments, and under such conditions, carries with it inherent risks, such as loss of human life or equipment, as well as the risk of downtime or reduced productivity resulting from equipment failures caused by an adverse operating environment. Those risks could cause us to experience injuries to our personnel, equipment losses, and interruptions in our business.. Although we maintain insurance, our insurance contains certain coverage exclusions and policy limits. There can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or adequate to cover all losses or liabilities or that insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from insurers as such insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. A claim for which we are not fully insured, or which is excluded from coverage or exceeds the policy limits of our applicable insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We may be held liable for the actions of our subcontractors.. We often work as the general contractor on seismic data acquisition surveys and consequently engage a number of subcontractors to perform services and provide products. While we generally obtain contractual indemnification and insurance covering the acts of those subcontractors, and require the subcontractors to obtain insurance for our benefit, there can be no assurance we will not be held liable for the actions of those subcontractors. In addition, subcontractors may cause damage or injury to our personnel and property that is not fully covered by insurance or by claims against the subcontractors.. Our agreements with our customers may not adequately protect us from unforeseen events or address all issues that could arise with our customers. The occurrence of unforeseen events or disputes with customers could result in increased liability, costs and expenses for our projects.. We enter into master service agreements with many of our customers that allocate certain operational risks. Despite the inclusion of risk allocation provisions in our agreements, our operations may be affected by a number of events that are unforeseen or not within our control and our agreements may not adequately protect us from each possible event. If an event occurs which we have not contemplated or otherwise addressed in our agreement we, and not our customer, will likely bear the increased cost or liability.. To the extent our agreements do not adequately address those and other issues, or we are not able to successfully resolve resulting disputes, we may incur increased liability, costs and expenses. This may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We, along with our customers, are subject to compliance with governmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities and may adversely affect the demand for our services.. Our operations, and those of our customers, are subject to a variety of federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, including stringent laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, particularly those relating to emissions to air, discharges to water, treatment, storage and disposal of regulated materials and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. Those laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including:. • the acquisition of permits before commencing regulated activities; and. • the limitation or prohibition of seismic activities in environmentally sensitive or protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas.. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the \"EPA\") and analogous state agencies in the United States and governmental bodies with control over environmental matters in foreign jurisdictions, have the power to enforce compliance with those laws and regulations and any permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions, remediation costs and natural resource damage claims, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations or liabilities arising under these laws and regulations. Further, we may become liable for damages against which we cannot adequately insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of high costs or other reasons. Our customers are subject to similar environmental laws and regulations.. 18. We expend financial and managerial resources to comply with all the laws and regulations applicable to our operations. Any changes in environmental laws and regulations or re-interpretation of enforcement policies that result in more stringent and costly regulations, or that change waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or remediation requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The fact that such laws or regulations change frequently makes it impossible for us to predict the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on our future operations. The costs of complying with applicable environmental laws and regulations are likely to increase over time and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with respect to existing or new laws and regulations or that such compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or on the operations of our customers which could affect demand for our services. Although regulatory developments that may occur in subsequent years could have the effect of reducing industry activity, we cannot predict the nature of any new restrictions or regulations that may be imposed. We may be required to increase operating expenses or capital expenditures in order to comply with any new restrictions or regulations.. In addition, as a result of the mobility of our equipment, operations in foreign jurisdictions and the utilization of a multi-national work force, we and our customers are subject to various federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to the import or export of equipment and the immigration and employment of non-citizen employees or sub-contractors. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and analogous governmental bodies in foreign jurisdictions have laws and regulations which prohibit or restrict operations in certain jurisdictions and doing business with certain persons in such jurisdictions, and we and our customers may be required to obtain and maintain licenses, permits, visas and similar documentation for operations. We may incur substantial costs, including fines and damages, criminal or civil sanctions for violations or liabilities arising under these laws and regulations.. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to additional political, economic, and other risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, and our exposure to such risks will increase as we expand our international operations.. Our operations outside of North America accounted for a substantial portion of our consolidated revenue. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, and especially those operating in emerging markets. As we continue to increase our presence in those countries, our operations will continue to encounter the following risks, among others:. • government instability or armed conflict, which can cause our potential customers to withdraw or delay investment in capital projects, thereby reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services;. • potential expropriation, seizure, nationalization or detention of assets;. • risks relating to foreign currency, as described below;. • import/export quotas or unexpected changes in regulatory environments and trade barriers;. • civil uprisings, riots and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules and expose us to losses;. • availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crew members or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient, and legal restrictions or other limitations on our ability to dismiss employees;. • laws, regulations, decrees and court decisions under legal systems that are not always fully developed and that may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs, as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs; and. • terrorist attacks, including kidnappings of our personnel.. If any of those or other similar events should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to taxation in many foreign jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and those examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest.. 19. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. We may not succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, and we may experience project disruptions and losses, which could negatively affect our profitability.. Our results of operations can be significantly affected by foreign currency fluctuations and regulations.. A portion of our revenues is derived in the local currencies of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, we are subject to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In the future, and especially as we further expand our operations in international markets, our customers may increasingly make payments in non-U.S. currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our revenues, operating costs and operating margins. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency. Hedging foreign currencies can be difficult, especially if the currency is not actively traded. We cannot predict the effect of future exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results.. In addition, we are subject to risks relating to governmental regulation of foreign currency, which may limit our ability to:. • transfer funds from or convert currencies in certain countries;. • repatriate foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements; and. • repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the United States at favorable tax rates.. As we continue to develop our operations in foreign countries, there is an increased risk that foreign currency controls may create difficulty in repatriating profits from foreign countries in the form of taxes or other restrictions, which could restrict our cash flow.. Economic and political conditions in Latin America pose numerous risks to our operations.. Our business operations in the Latin American region constitute a material portion of our business. As events in the region have demonstrated, negative economic or political developments in one country in the region can lead to or exacerbate economic or political instability elsewhere in the region. Furthermore, events in recent years in other developing markets have placed pressures on the stability of the currencies of a number of countries in Latin America in which we operate, including Brazil, Colombia and Peru. While certain areas in the Latin American region have experienced economic growth, this recovery remains fragile.. Certain Latin American economies have experienced shortages in foreign currency reserves and have adopted restrictions on the use of certain mechanisms to expatriate local earnings and convert local currencies into U.S. Dollars. Any such shortages or restrictions may limit or impede our ability to transfer or to convert such currencies into U.S. Dollars and to expatriate such funds for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our indebtedness. In addition, currency devaluations in one country may have adverse effects in another country. Some Latin American countries have historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation and some measures implemented to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the economies of these countries. Governmental actions taken in an effort to curb inflation, coupled with speculation about possible future actions, have contributed to economic uncertainty at times in most Latin American countries. These countries may experience high levels of inflation in the future that could lead to further government intervention in the economy, including the introduction of government policies that could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of these countries experience high rates of inflation, we may not be able to adjust the price of our services sufficiently to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structures. A high inflation environment would also have negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Current and future legislation or regulation relating to climate change and hydraulic fracturing could negatively affect the exploration and production of oil and gas and adversely affect demand for our services.. In response to concerns suggesting that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as \"greenhouse gases\" (\"GHG\") (including carbon dioxide and methane), may be contributing to global climate change, legislative and regulatory measures to address the concerns are in various phases of discussion or implementation at the federal, state and international levels. Many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already taken legal measures intended to reduce GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or GHG cap and trade programs.. This increasing focus on global warming may result in new environmental laws or regulations that may negatively affect us and our customers. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers incurring additional compliance costs that get passed on to us. Moreover, passage of climate change legislation or other legislative or regulatory initiatives that regulate or restrict emissions of GHG may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and natural gas in areas where our customers operate and thus adversely. 20. affect future demand for our services. Reductions in our revenues or increases in our expenses as a result of climate control initiatives could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and natural gas wells. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemical additives under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and natural gas production. Due to public concerns raised regarding potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some states, have been initiated to require or make more stringent the permitting, reporting and compliance requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations. These legislative and regulatory initiatives imposing additional reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult or costly to complete oil and natural gas wells. Shale gas and shale oil cannot be economically produced without extensive fracturing. In the event such initiatives are successful, demand for our seismic acquisition services may be adversely affected.. As a company subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with U.S. laws could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to U.S. law. Any determination that we or our foreign agents have violated the FCPA may adversely affect our business, operations and reputation.. We operate in certain parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using.. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and which imposes stringent recordkeeping requirements. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to continue to work in those countries.. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws affecting the taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.. Changes to U.S. or foreign tax laws could impact the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. Due to the scope of our international business operations, any changes in the U.S. or foreign taxation of these operations may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure may expose us to potentially adverse tax consequences. We are subject to taxation in and to the tax laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. We are also subject to intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our companies. Adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation of these laws or regulations in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the United States, may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, including the tax treatment or characterization of our indebtedness, intercompany loans and guarantees. If any applicable tax authorities, including the U.S. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could result in the disallowance of deductions and the imposition of tax withholding.. We may be unable to attract and retain executive officers and skilled and technically knowledgeable employees, which could adversely affect our business.. Our continued success depends upon retaining and attracting executive officers and highly skilled employees. A number of our executive officers and employees possess many years of industry experience and are highly skilled, and members of our management team also have relationships with oil and gas companies and others in the industry that are integral to our ability to market and sell our services. Our inability to retain such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the seismic service industry. We may face significant competition for such skilled personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for seismic services. Although we utilize employment agreements and other incentives to retain certain of our key employees, there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain those personnel.. If we do not manage growth and contractions in our business effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 21. Historically, we have experienced significant growth but for the last several years we have contracted our business in response to the decline in oil and natural gas exploration activities. Both growth and contraction have placed significant demands on our personnel, management, infrastructure and support mechanisms and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal compliance and information systems to keep pace with the growth of or contractions in our business. We may also expand through the strategic acquisition of companies and assets. We must plan and manage any acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. If we fail to manage growth of or contractions in our business effectively, our ability to provide services could be adversely affected, which could negatively affect our operating results.. The requirements of being a public company increase our operating expenses and divert management's attention.. As a public company, we are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations require us to incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we would not incur if we were not a public company.. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the national securities exchanges, establish certain requirements for the corporate governance practices of public companies. For example, as a result of becoming a public company, we have additional board committees and are required to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight are required. As a result, management's attention has been and will continue to be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and operating results.. Because we are a smaller reporting company, to date our independent auditor has not been required to issue an attestation report regarding our internal control over financial reporting in the annual reports on Form 10-K that we file with the SEC, and we have been subject to scaled disclosure requirements. We will remain a smaller reporting company as long as the market value of our securities held by non-affiliates is below $75 million, as of the end of our second fiscal quarter each year. If we cease to be a smaller reporting company, our expenses will further increase and additional time will be required of our management to comply with those additional requirements.. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations.. While the Restructurings have caused our total debt outstanding to significantly decrease, our high level of indebtedness could still have significant effects on our business. For example, our level of indebtedness and the terms of our debt agreements may:. • increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations;. • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, or general corporate purposes particularly in light of the fact that a substantial portion of our assets have been pledged to secure our indebtedness, which may limit the ability to execute our business strategy;. • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. • limit management's discretion in operating our business;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate or the general economy; and. • result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase and we have outstanding floating rate borrowings.. Each of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments with respect to our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by a broad range of factors, including our ability to monetize our Tax Credits, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting us and our industry, many of which are beyond our control.. 22. Despite existing debt levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with our leverage.. Even with our existing debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional debt in the future, including debt under our credit facility.  Although the terms of our debt agreements limit our ability to incur additional debt, they do not prevent us from incurring amounts of additional debt.  If new debt is added to our current debt levels, however, the risks associated with our leverage may intensify.. Our debt agreements impose or may impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from pursuing certain business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business.. Our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to take various actions, such as:. • transferring or selling certain assets;. • paying dividends or distributions, repaying subordinated indebtedness (if any) or making certain investments or other restricted payments;. • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness or, with respect to our restricted subsidiaries, issuing preferred stock;. • creating or incurring liens securing indebtedness;. • incurring dividend or similar payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries;. • consummating a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our and our restricted subsidiaries' assets;. • entering into transactions with affiliates; and. • engaging in a business other than our current business and businesses related, ancillary or complementary, to our current businesses or immaterial businesses.. In addition, the security documents relating to our indebtedness restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from taking or omitting to take certain actions that would adversely affect or impair in any material respect the collateral securing those obligations. Any future debt may also require us to comply with a number of affirmative and negative covenants in addition to the covenants listed above.. We may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise if we fail to meet certain financial ratios or because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under these agreements. In addition, the restrictions contained in our debt agreements may also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs, or may otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions, execute our business strategy, effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. In the future, we may incur other debt obligations that might subject us to additional and different restrictive covenants that could also adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility.. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment and the sale of our assets to satisfy our obligations with our lenders. Failure to maintain existing financing or to secure new financing could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position.. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of those agreements. In the event of a default under those agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, may also be accelerated and become due and payable. In addition, substantially all of our debt obligations are secured by a lien on substantially all of our U.S. assets and certain of our foreign assets, including 65% of the equity interests in our first-tier foreign subsidiaries. In the event of foreclosure, liquidation, bankruptcy or other insolvency proceeding relating to us or to our subsidiaries that have guaranteed our debt, holders of our secured indebtedness and our other lenders will have prior claims on our assets. If any of those events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, it might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Additionally, we may not be able to amend our debt agreements or obtain needed waivers on satisfactory terms or without incurring substantial costs. Failure to maintain existing or secure new financing could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position.. 23. Risks Relating to Our Securities and the Restructurings. There are limited trading markets for our securities and the market prices of our securities are subject to volatility.. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other energy companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. In addition, the volatility and market price of our common stock has been negatively impacted by the significant cash flow and liquidity difficulties that we are currently experiencing.  Factors such as announcements concerning changes in prices of oil and natural gas, exploration and development activities, the availability of capital, our cash flow and liquidity situation and negotiations regarding potential restructuring transactions, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations and financial results, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock.  Because our preferred shares and warrants are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices for our common stock is likely to have a similar effect on the trading price of the preferred shares and warrants, which may make them difficult to resell.. From time to time, there has been limited trading volume in our common stock.  In addition, there can be no assurance that there will continue to be an active trading market for our common stock or that any securities research analysts will provide research coverage on our common stock.  It is possible that such factors will adversely affect the market for our common stock.  After completion of the 2017 Restructuring, we expect there will likely be even less trading in, and greater trading volatility with respect to, our common stock.  There is currently no market for, and we do not intend to list, the preferred shares or the warrants issued in the 2017 Restructuring on any securities exchange or any automated dealer quotation system.  Accordingly, there may not be development of, or liquidity in, any market for the preferred shares or warrants. If a market were to develop, these securities could trade at prices that may be higher or lower than their initial price depending upon many factors, including the price of our common stock, prevailing interest rates, our operating results and markets for similar securities. Our preferred shares rank junior to all of our indebtedness and other liabilities, have no public market, are subject to restrictions on transfer and have limited voting rights.. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding-up, our assets will be available to pay obligations on the preferred shares only after all of our indebtedness and other liabilities have been paid.  Consequently, if we are forced to liquidate our assets to pay our creditors, we may not have sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on the preferred shares then outstanding.. Neither the preferred shares nor the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the preferred shares have been registered under the Securities Act and we do not intend to file a registration statement for the resale of the preferred shares.  The restrictions on transfer applicable to the preferred shares may affect the ability to resell such securities or reduce the price that may be received in doing so.. The preferred shares do not have voting rights, except under limited circumstances such as under Delaware law or if the action involves the authorization or issuance of any class or series of senior stock or parity stock and for amendments to our certificate of incorporation by merger or otherwise that would affect adversely the rights of holders of the preferred shares including dividends thereon, the liquidation preference, redemption and conversion rights, ranking and certain other protections, including an anti-layering provision and certain consent rights with respect to the granting of liens on the Alaska Tax Credits (other than the liens granted to secure obligations under our credit facilities).. The Restructurings significantly altered our capital structure but may not solve our liquidity problems.. As a result of our Restructurings, our capital structure has been substantially improved but there can be no assurance that we will not have any additional capital structure or liquidity issues.  Moreover, our continued implementation of restructuring and cost saving initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the near future and, while the preferred stock pays dividends, we are not obligated to pay them unless our board declares them.. We do not anticipate that cash dividends or other distributions will be paid on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, restrictive covenants in certain debt agreements to which we are, or may be, a party, may limit our ability to pay dividends or for us to receive dividends from our operating companies, any of which may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.. 24. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our Series B Preferred Stock and no payment or adjustment will be made upon conversion for accumulated dividends. Dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock are only payable when, as and if declared by our board, but our board is not legally obligated to do so.  Further, our current indebtedness and any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into in the future may limit our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock, including the preferred stock, in which case we will be unable to pay dividends on the preferred stock unless we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements. For example, our credit facility and senior loan facility contain certain restrictions on our ability to make cash dividend payments.. Under Delaware law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from \"surplus\" or, if there is no \"surplus,\" from a company's net profits for the then-current or the preceding fiscal year. Unless we operate profitably, our ability to pay cash dividends on the preferred stock would require the availability of adequate \"surplus,\" which is defined as the excess, if any, of our net assets over our capital.  Further, even if adequate surplus is available to pay dividends on the preferred stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay such dividends.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that some stockholders may consider beneficial.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our board determines that such changes in control are not in our best interests and in the best interests of our stockholders. Those provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include, among other things, those that:. •limit the ability of stockholders to nominate or remove directors;. • authorize our board to issue preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms, including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without stockholder approval;. •establish advance notice procedures for nominating directors or presenting matters at stockholder meetings; and. •limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders.. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us to negotiate with our board, they could enable the board to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some stockholders may believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management.. 25"
