[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Saia stockholders should be aware of certain risks, including those described below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, which could adversely affect the value of their holdings and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements.. We are subject to general economic conditions that are largely out of our control, any of which could adversely affect our business.. Our business is subject to a number of general economic conditions that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, the results of operations, liquidity and cash flows, many of which are largely out of our control. These include recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customer business cycles, global uncertainty and instability, changes in U.S. social, political, and regulatory conditions and/or a disruption of financial markets. Economic conditions may adversely affect the business levels of our customers, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services.. 9. We operate in a highly competitive industry and our business will be adversely impacted if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors.. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include the following:. •  competition with many other transportation service providers of varying types including competitor LTL carriers and non-asset based logistics and freight brokerage companies, some of which have more equipment, a broader coverage network, a wider range of services and greater capital resources than we do or have other competitive advantages;     •  transportation companies periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during economic recessions or times of reduced growth rates in the economy which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices or achieve significant growth in our business;     •  many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting approved transportation service providers, periodically accepting bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, or by developing their own or using alternative delivery mechanisms, and these practices may depress prices or result in the loss of business;     •  the trend towards consolidation in the surface transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources than us and other competitive advantages due to their size;     •  disruptive technologies, including driverless trucks, electric vehicles, alternative fuels and software applications to monitor supply and demand may significantly alter historical business models of the trucking industry, potentially leading to increased capital expenditures and emergence of new competitors, some of whom may have greater financial resources than us and other advantages due to their size;     •  the trend toward increased sales in the e-commerce sector as opposed to the traditional brick and mortar store model could adversely impact our revenues and the demand for our services; and     •  technological advances require increased investments to remain competitive, and we may not utilize enough advanced technology, select the correct technology solutions or convince our customers to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments.. The transportation industry is affected by business risks that are largely out of our control.. Businesses operating in the transportation industry are affected by risks that are largely out of their control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. These risks include health of the economy, weather and other seasonal factors, excess capacity in the transportation industry, supply chain disruptions, acts of terrorism, interest rates, fuel costs, fuel taxes, license and registration fees, healthcare costs and insurance premiums. In particular, harsh weather or natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, fires and floods and acts of terrorism can affect our operations by increasing operational costs, reducing demand, introducing infrastructure instability and disrupting advance route and load planning.. We are dependent on cost and availability of qualified drivers and purchased transportation.. There is significant competition for qualified drivers within the trucking industry and attracting and retaining drivers has become more challenging. Regulatory requirements, including the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's (FMCSA) data-driven safety and compliance enforcement initiative, Compliance, Safety, Accountability (CSA), have contributed to the reduction in the number of eligible drivers and may continue to do so in the future. We may periodically experience shortages of qualified drivers that could result in us not meeting customer demands, upward pressure on driver wages and benefits, underutilization of our truck fleet and/or use of higher cost purchased transportation which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. There is also significant competition for quality purchased transportation within the trucking industry. We may periodically experience shortages of quality purchased transportation that could result in higher costs for these services or prevent us from meeting customer demands which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. 10. We are dependent on cost and availability of fuel.. Fuel is a significant operating expense and its availability is vital to daily operations. We do not hedge against the risk of fuel price increases. Global political events, acts of terrorism, federal, state and local laws and regulations, natural or man-made disasters, adverse weather conditions and other external factors could adversely affect the cost and availability of fuel. In the past, we have been able to obtain fuel from various sources and in the desired quantities, but there can be no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future and any shortage or interruption in the supply or distribution of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. To the extent not offset by fuel surcharges or other customer price changes, volatility in fuel prices or significant increases in fuel taxes resulting from these economic or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Historically, we have been able to offset significant fuel price volatility through fuel surcharges and other pricing adjustments but we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. In recent years, given the significance of fuel surcharges, the negotiation of customer price increases has become commingled with fuel surcharges. We have experienced increases in other operating costs as a result of volatility in fuel prices; however, the total impact of volatility in fuel prices on other non-fuel related expenses is difficult to determine. Fluctuations in our fuel surcharge recovery may result in fluctuations in our revenue. Rapid and significant fluctuations in diesel fuel prices would reduce our profitability until we make the appropriate adjustments to our pricing strategy.. We may face risks related to our expansion into the Northeastern United States.. We are expanding our service geography into the Northeastern United States. In 2017, we opened six terminals in major markets in Pennsylvania, Maryland and New Jersey.  We plan to add new markets at a similar pace in 2018 targeting additional markets in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, as well as other Northeastern states. There is no assurance that we will be successful at adding new markets as planned or that such markets will be profitable. This continued expansion will require investments in purchased or leased terminals, equipment (including the purchase of new tractors and trailers), technology, employees and other related start-up costs to facilitate our growth plans. Additionally, we plan to invest in certain areas of our existing network so that we will be able to handle the increased freight flows we anticipate to and from the new markets. The Northeastern market is extremely competitive and there is no assurance that we will generate revenues sufficient to cover our costs of expanding there. Expansion into the Northeast could cause disruptions in our existing geography or require management to devote excessive time and effort to manage the expansion, which could adversely affect our business operations and profitability. Operation in the Northeast may increase the possibility of one or more union organizing efforts. In addition, harsh winter weather in the Northeast may increase our risk of weather-related expenses and disruptions. A delay between the outlay of expenditures to expand our geographic footprint and generation of new revenue or higher than anticipated costs or lower than expected revenues from the expansion could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. We may experience decreased profitability until we are able to fully realize the benefits of the investment, if ever.. Ongoing insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce and cause volatility to our earnings.. We are regularly subject to claims resulting from cargo loss, personal injury, property damage, group healthcare and workers' compensation and we maintain insurance deductibles for these claims in amounts ranging from $250,000 to $2 million per claim. We also maintain insurance with licensed insurance companies above these self-insured retention limits. If the number or severity of future claims increases, claim expenses might exceed historical levels or could exceed the amounts of our insurance coverage or the amount of our reserves for self-insured claims, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Deterioration in safety experience could cause customers to switch business to competitors.. In recent years, several insurance companies have stopped offering coverage to trucking companies as a result of increases in the severity of automobile liability claims and higher costs of settlements and verdicts. This trend could adversely affect our ability to obtain suitable insurance coverage or could significantly increase our cost for obtaining such coverage, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Furthermore, insurance companies, as well as certain states, require collateral in the form of letters of credit or surety bonds for the estimated exposure of claims within our self-insured retentions. Their estimate of our future. 11. exposure as well as external market conditions could influence the amount and costs of additional letters of credit required under our insurance programs and thereby reduce capital available for future growth or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. In addition, insurance companies are increasingly encouraging or requiring trucking companies to increase the level of technology and safety measures used in their fleet, which could increase the costs of our fleet in order to obtain acceptable coverage or avoid rate hikes.. We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business.. We face litigation risks regarding a variety of issues, including without limitation, accidents involving our trucks and employees, alleged violations of federal and state labor and employment laws, securities laws, environmental liability and other matters. These proceedings may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. The defense of such lawsuits could result in significant expense and the diversion of our management's time and attention from the operation of our business. In recent years, several insurance companies have stopped offering coverage to trucking companies as a result of increases in the severity of automobile liability claims and higher costs of settlements and verdicts. This trend could adversely affect our ability to obtain suitable insurance coverage or could significantly increase our cost for obtaining such coverage, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Costs we incur to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of these claims may not be covered by insurance or could exceed the amount of that coverage or increase our insurance costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Employees of Saia are non-union. The ability of Saia to compete could be impaired if operations were to become unionized.. None of our employees are currently subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We have in the past been the subject of unionization efforts which have been defeated. However, the U.S. Congress could pass labor legislation, such as the formerly proposed Employee Free Choice Act, or the National Labor Relations Board or other federal agencies could issue regulations or administrative changes, which could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. If this bill or a variation of it is enacted in the future or if federal regulations regarding labor relations are changed, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Our expansion into portions of the Northeast could increase our overall risk of unionization. While Saia believes its current relationship with its employees is good, there can be no assurance that further unionization efforts will not occur in the future and that such efforts will be defeated. The non-union status of Saia is an important factor in our ability to compete in our markets, and if all or a portion of our workforce becomes unionized it could increase our costs and subject us to workplace rules, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. We must test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets and could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment assessments at least annually (or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred) by applying a fair-value based test. Our principal intangible assets are goodwill and other intangible assets. A loss of significant customers or a decrease in our market capitalization or profitability increases the risk of goodwill impairment. An impairment charge could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Demand for new and used revenue equipment and limited supply of suitable real estate may adversely affect our business.. Investment in new revenue equipment is a significant part of our annual capital expenditures. We may have difficulty in purchasing new trucks due to decreased supply, increased demand and restrictions on the availability of capital. The price of such equipment may increase as a result of regulations on newly manufactured tractors, such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and various state regulations requiring progressive reductions in. 12. exhaust emissions. These regulations have increased prices for tractors and increased maintenance costs. In addition, as we purchase new revenue equipment as part of our normal replacement cycle each year, we rely on the used equipment market to dispose of our older equipment. Oversupply in the transportation industry as well as adverse economic conditions can negatively impact the demand for used equipment and, therefore, reduce the value we can obtain for our used equipment. If we are unable to sell our older equipment at or above our salvage value, the resulting losses could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Our business model is also dependent on cost and availability of terminal facilities in key metropolitan areas. Shortages in the availability of suitable real estate or delays in construction due to difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals may result in significant additional investment in leasing, purchasing or building facilities, increase our operating expenses and/or prevent us from efficiently serving certain markets. In addition, we may not realize sufficient revenues or profits from our infrastructure investments.. The engines in our newer tractors are subject to new emissions-control regulations which could substantially increase operating expenses and future regulations concerning emissions or fuel-efficiency may have an adverse impact on our business.. Tractor engines that comply with the EPA emission-control design requirements have generally been less fuel-efficient and have increased maintenance costs compared to engines in tractors manufactured before these requirements became effective. If we are unable to offset resulting increases in fuel expenses or maintenance costs with higher freight rates or improved fuel economy, our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Future strengthening of EPA or other regulatory requirements regarding fuel-efficiency of tractors could also result in increases in the cost of capital equipment and maintenance. While savings on fuel costs resulting from the use of more fuel-efficient equipment could mitigate these additional expenses in part, the impact of future regulations cannot be projected at this time.. Our Company-specific performance improvement initiatives, including management of the cost structure to match shifts in customer volume levels, may not be effective.. Operating performance improvement at Saia is dependent on the implementation and/or the continuation of various performance improvement initiatives. There can be no assurance that Saia will be successful in implementing these performance improvement initiatives or that Saia's historical performance trend will be representative of future performance. In addition, we are capital intensive with a relatively high fixed-cost structure that is difficult to adjust to match shifting volume levels. Failure to achieve performance improvement initiatives could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. We operate in a highly regulated and highly taxed industry. Costs of compliance with or liability for violation of existing or future regulations may adversely affect our business.. The Department of Transportation (DOT) and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing such activities as authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and financial reporting. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations imposed by the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or other authorities relating to engine exhaust emissions, safety performance and measurements, driver hours of service, drug and alcohol testing, security, ergonomics, as well as other unforeseen matters. Compliance with such regulations could substantially impair equipment productivity and increase our costs. Various federal and state authorities impose significant operating taxes on the transportation industry, including fuel taxes, tolls, excise and other taxes. There can be no assurance such taxes will not substantially increase or that new forms of operating taxes will not be imposed on the industry.. The FMCSA rules on motor carrier driver hours of service limit the maximum number of hours a driver may be on duty between mandatory off-duty hours. Our operations were adjusted to comply with these rules, and while our base operations were not materially affected, we did experience deterioration in the cost, availability and. 13. reliability of purchased transportation. Revisions to these rules could further impact our operations, further tighten the market for qualified drivers and put additional pressure on driver wages and purchased transportation costs.. The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) continues to focus on trailer security, driver identification and security clearance and border crossing procedures. These and other safety and security measures, such as rules for transportation of hazardous materials could increase the cost of operations, reduce the number of qualified drivers and disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries for our customers.. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issues rules for carriers of foodstuffs like us to provide for the security of food and foodstuffs throughout the supply chain. The Sanitary Food Transportation Act (SFTA) shifted responsibility for the regulation of food transportation from the DOT to the FDA. Effective in 2016, the FDA issued a final rule to establish requirements under SFTA for vehicles and transportation equipment, transportation operations, training, recordkeeping and waivers. The rule is designed to continue the use of best practices in the industry concerning cleaning, inspection, maintenance, loading and unloading of, and operation of vehicles. Carriers are required to develop and implement written procedures subject to recordkeeping that specify its practices for cleaning, sanitizing, and inspecting vehicles and transportation equipment.  Although we already strive to adhere to such best practices, the impact of the final rule is uncertain and compliance may cause us to incur additional expenses and affect our operations.. Historically, the EPA has issued regulations that require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines. These regulations increased the cost of replacing and maintaining trucks and increased fuel costs by reducing miles per gallon. These regulations have the potential to reduce availability of fuel and reduce productivity which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. In 2015, the FMCSA issued a final rule related to mandatory use of Electronic Log Devices (ELD). The rule requires many in-state-only drivers and most interstate commercial motor vehicle drivers to be compliant by no later than December 18, 2017. Drivers who voluntarily used a compliant automatic on-board recording device by the December 18, 2017, deadline were \"grandfathered\" for two years to give providers time to update their systems to be compliant with the ELD standards. While such regulations could increase the cost of technology, capital equipment and maintenance expenses across our industry, we implemented ELDs company-wide in 2014 prior to the effective date of the ELD standard. Despite our current company-wide use of ELDs, there can be no guarantee that our understanding of the new regulations will be the same as that of the government in all aspects.. In 2016, the NHTSA and FMSCA proposed regulations that would require vehicles of a certain size to be equipped with a speed limiting device set to a specified speed. There can be no guarantee as to whether a final rule requiring speed limiting devices will be implemented, and if so the nature of any such rule and its impact on our fleet and operations.. Changes in the North American Free Trade Agreement could adversely affect our financial performance.. The United States, Mexico and Canada are currently re-negotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), from which the U.S. government has advised it will withdraw if an agreement on revised terms is not reached. The three countries are continuing discussions to achieve revised rules. We partner with carriers in Canada and Mexico to arrange for the movement of freight into and out of those jurisdictions. If the current U.S. administration takes action to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA, we may experience a significant decline in the demand for our services. It is unknown at this time whether and to what extent new legislation will be passed into law, international trade agreements will be negotiated, or the effect that any such action would have, either positively or negatively, on our industry, or on us. Any such regulatory changes affecting international trade may require us to adapt or modify our business operations, which may be time-consuming and expensive for us. Action by the U.S. government may result in retaliatory actions by the governments of Mexico and Canada. Any change to international rules governing the passage of freight between Canada, the U.S. and Mexico could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. 14. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Costs of compliance with or liabilities for violations of existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are also subject to increasing customer sensitivity to sustainability issues.. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination may have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Although we have programs in place designed to monitor and control environmental risks and to promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, violations of applicable environmental laws or regulations or spills or other accidents involving hazardous substances can still occur and may subject us to cleanup costs, liabilities not covered by insurance, substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. In addition, as climate change concerns become more prevalent, federal, state and local governments and our customers are increasingly sensitive to these issues. This increased focus on sustainability may result in new regulations and customer requirements that could negatively affect us. This could cause us to incur additional direct costs or to make changes to our operations in order to comply with any new regulations and customer requirements. We could also lose revenue if our customers divert business from us because we have not complied with their sustainability requirements. These costs, changes and loss of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. CSA could adversely affect our results of operations and ability to maintain or grow our business.. CSA is an enforcement and compliance model required by the FMCSA that involves assessments of a motor carrier's on-road performance and investigation results for a 24-month period using roadside stops and inspections, resulting in safety and performance ratings in the following categories: unsafe driving; hours-of-service compliance; driver fitness; controlled substances/alcohol; vehicle maintenance; hazardous material compliance; and crash indicators.. In addition, the safety standards prescribed in CSA could change and our ability to maintain an acceptable score could be adversely impacted.. The CSA evaluations are used to rank carriers and individual drivers and to select carriers for audit and other interventions. Public disclosure of certain CSA scores was restricted through the enactment of the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act of 2015 (the FAST Act) in 2015; however, the FAST Act does not restrict public disclosure of all data collected by the FMSCA. If we receive unacceptable CSA scores, and this data is made available to the public, our relationships with our customers could be damaged, which could result in decreased demand for our services. The requirements of CSA could also shrink the industry's pool of drivers as those with unfavorable scores could leave the industry. While the ultimate impact of CSA is not fully known, it is possible that future CSA rulemaking could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain drivers which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. We may face risks related to the geographic concentration of our customers.. We have operations throughout the South, Southwest, Midwest, Pacific Northwest, West and portions of the Northeast, in which we plan to further expand our footprint into 2019. As a result, changes in the economic climate, consumer trends, market fluctuations or supply shortages in these regions could decrease demand for our services in these regions and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. For example, the energy sector is important to local economies in several of these regions. If oil and gas market conditions change materially, the demand for our services in these regions could be impacted significantly, which could also adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. 15. Anti-terrorism measures and terrorist events may disrupt our business.. Federal, state and municipal authorities have implemented and are continuing to implement various anti-terrorism measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. If additional security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet requirements of our customers or incur increased expenses to do so. There can be no assurance that new anti-terrorism measures will not be implemented and that such measures will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Terrorism events that disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers could also materially impact our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Our logistics and non-asset truckload business faces risk from customer concentration and the loss of certain primary customers may have a material adverse effect on those operations.. Our non-asset operations are subject to the risk of customer concentration because of the relative importance of their largest customers and the ability of those customers to negotiate aggressive pricing and other customer-favorable terms, including termination for convenience. Although we aim to broaden and diversify the customer base of our logistics and non-asset truckload business, a significant portion of our revenue from these subsidiaries is derived from a small number of large and sophisticated customers and a loss of business from, the bankruptcy or insolvency of, or adverse performance by, these major customers may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Similarly, the renegotiation of these customer contracts may also have an adverse effect on us.. We have significant ongoing cash requirements that could limit our growth and affect profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms.. Our business is highly capital intensive. Our net capital expenditures for 2017 were approximately $217 million inclusive of equipment acquired with capital leases. Additionally, we anticipate net capital expenditures in 2018 of approximately $265 million. We depend on cash flows from operations, borrowings under our credit facilities and operating and capital leases. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our growth, enter into less favorable financing arrangements or operate our trucks and trailers for longer periods. The amount and timing of capital investments depend on various factors, including anticipated volume levels and the price and availability of appropriate-use property for service facilities and newly manufactured tractors. If anticipated service facilities and/or fleet requirements differ materially from actual usage, we may have too much or too little capacity. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Under our current credit facilities, we are subject to certain debt covenants, which prohibit the payment of dividends, provide limits on our ability to repurchase our capital stock, and require maintenance of certain maximum leverage and minimum fixed charge coverage ratios, among other restrictions, that could limit availability of capital to meet our future growth.. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.. Our credit and debt agreements contain financial and other restrictive covenants and we may be unable to comply with these covenants. A default could cause a material adverse effect on our business.. We must maintain certain financial and other restrictive covenants under our credit agreement, including among others, covenants requiring maintenance of minimum fixed charge coverage and maximum leverage ratios. If we fail to comply with any of the covenants under our credit agreement, we will be in default under the agreement which could cause cross-defaults under other financial arrangements. In the event of any such default, if we fail to obtain replacement financing, amendments to or waivers under the financing arrangement, our financing sources could cease making further advances, cease issuing letters of credit required under our insurance programs or declare our debt to be immediately due and payable. If acceleration occurs, we may have difficulty in borrowing sufficient additional funds to refinance the accelerated debt or obtain required letters of credit, or we may have to. 16. issue securities which would dilute stock ownership. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be available on acceptable terms. A default under our credit agreement could cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. If we are unable to retain our key employees, our business could be adversely impacted.. We depend on the efforts and abilities of our senior management. The future success of our business will continue to depend in part on our ability to retain our current management team and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management is intense, and, with the exception of Mr. O'Dell, members of our senior management do not have employment agreements. Certain members of senior management are subject to non-compete and non-solicitation agreements; however, there is no assurance that such agreements will be enforced as written or that they will be effective to prevent members of senior management from working for a competitor or soliciting our customers. The loss of the services of any of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Inadequate succession planning or the unexpected departure of a member of senior management would require our remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to fulfilling the duties of the departing executive and to seeking a replacement. The inability to adequately fill vacancies in our senior management positions on a timely basis could negatively affect our ability to implement our business strategy and thus impact our results of operations.. Changes to our compensation and benefits could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees.. The compensation we offer our employees is subject to market conditions that may require increases in employee compensation, which becomes more likely as economic conditions improve. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of employees, we could be required to increase our compensation packages, or reduce our operations and face difficulty meeting customer demands, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. An increase in the cost of healthcare benefits administration could have a negative impact on our business.. We maintain and sponsor health insurance for our employees and their dependents and offer a competitive healthcare program to attract and retain our employees. It is possible that healthcare benefits and administration costs could become increasingly cost prohibitive, either forcing us to reduce our benefits program (making it more difficult to retain qualified employees) or require us to pay the higher costs.  Either outcome could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. The legislation on healthcare and related regulations could affect the healthcare benefits required to be provided by the Company and cause our compensation costs to increase.. Under the comprehensive U.S. healthcare reform law enacted in 2010, the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and changes that became effective in 2014, and especially the employer mandate and employer penalties that became effective in 2015, our labor costs could significantly increase in future years. In any event, implementing the requirements of the ACA has imposed additional administrative costs on us, and those costs may increase over time. The costs and other effects of these new healthcare requirements cannot be determined with certainty, particularly in light of the potential amendment or repeal of all or parts of the ACA, but they may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Our business may adversely be impacted by potential future changes in accounting practices.. Future changes in accounting standards or practices, and related legal and regulatory interpretations of those changes, may adversely impact public companies in general, the transportation industry or our operations specifically. New accounting standards or requirements, such as a conversion from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to International Financial Reporting Standards, could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and/or liabilities or could be costly to implement. These types of regulations could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. 17. Weakness or a loss of confidence in financial markets could adversely impact demand for our services.. Weakness or a loss of confidence in the financial markets could cause broader economic downturns and impact the ability of our customers to access the capital or credit markets which may lead to lower demand for our services, increased incidence of customers' inability to pay their accounts, or insolvency of our customers, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Disruptions in the credit markets, including in the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity and letter of credit requirements may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet long-term commitments.. If internal funds are not available from our operations, we may be required to rely on the capital and credit markets to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our bank revolving credit facility and obtain letters of credit required for our insurance programs. Our access to funds and letters of credit under that credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time.. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.. We rely heavily on technology to operate our business and cyber-security threats or other disruptions to our technology infrastructure could harm our business.. Our ability to attract and retain customers and compete effectively depends in part upon reliability of our technology network including our ability to provide services that are important to our customers. Any disruption to our technology infrastructure (including services provided to us for use in our business by outside providers), including those impacting our computer systems and website, could adversely impact our customer service and revenues and result in increased risk of litigation or costs. While we have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully protect us from technology disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. Our dependence on electronic data storage, automated systems and technology gives rise to cyber-security risks. Although we and our third-party providers have preventive systems and processes in place designed to protect against the risk of system failure and cyber-attacks, a security breach of our systems or those of our third-party providers may cause a disruption of our business or expose us to a loss of information or litigation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, reputation and results of operations.. Our business depends in part on our strong reputation.. We believe that Saia's corporate reputation is a valuable asset. As use of social media becomes more prevalent, our susceptibility to risks related to adverse publicity, whether or not justified, increases. While we have implemented a social media policy to provide our employees with guidance for sharing information in a way that is beneficial to us, the immediacy of certain social media outlets precludes us from having real-time control over postings related to Saia, whether matters of fact or opinion. Information distributed via social media could result in immediate unfavorable publicity for which we, like our competitors, do not have the ability to reverse. This unfavorable publicity could result in damage to our reputation and therefore negatively impact our operations and profitability.. Certain provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law could have anti-takeover effects.. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock. 18. unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the Board of Directors has approved the transaction. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us.. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Company. Such provisions include, for example, provisions classifying our Board of Directors, a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, authorization of the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock in series with the terms of each series to be fixed by the Board of Directors and an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals and nominations to the Board of Directors. These provisions may inhibit fluctuations in the market price of our common stock that could result from takeover attempts.. We may not make future acquisitions or, if we do, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management.. We may acquire additional businesses and operations in the future. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating, consummating or integrating any future acquisitions. Additionally, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions. Each acquisition has numerous risks including:. •  difficulty in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company or unanticipated costs to support new business lines or separate legal entities;     •  disruption of our ongoing business, distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges due to integration issues;     •  additional indebtedness or the issuance of additional equity to finance future acquisitions, which could be dilutive to our stockholders;     •  potential loss of key customers or employees of acquired companies along with the risk of unionization of employees;     •  temporary depression in prices we charge certain customers in order to match existing customer pricing in the acquired company's markets;     •  inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses;     •  potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill acquired as a result of acquisitions; and     •  potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with legal and financial contingencies, among other things.. In the event that we do not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition or if the acquired business is not successfully integrated, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. If we raise additional capital in the future, stockholders' ownership in us could be diluted.. Any issuance of equity we may undertake in the future to raise additional capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those newly issued shares being dilutive. If we obtain funds through a credit facility or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these obligations and securities would likely have rights senior to those of common stockholders, which could impair the value of our common stock.. We face risks related to the creditworthiness of our customers or other business partners and their ability to pay for services.. If one or more of our customers experiences financial difficulties, including filing for bankruptcy, it may negatively affect our business due to the decreased demand for our services from these customers, or the potential inability of these companies to make full payment on amounts owed to us. Customer bankruptcies also. 19. entail the risk of potential recovery by the bankruptcy estate of amounts previously paid to us that are deemed a preference under bankruptcy laws. We do not carry insurance against the risk of customer default on their payment obligations to us or against bankruptcy preference claims. The risks associated with these matters will likely increase in the event of an economic downturn. The loss of revenue from these customers or payment of preference claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could affect our results.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted on December 22, 2017. At December 31, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act; however, in certain cases, as described below, reasonable estimates have been made of the effects on existing deferred tax balances. In other cases, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and continue to account for those items based on the existing accounting under ASC 740, Income Taxes, and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to enactment. For the items for which we were able to make a reasonable estimate, we recognized a provisional tax benefit amount of $34 million, which is included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations. In all cases, we will continue to make and refine our calculations as additional analysis is completed. In addition, the estimates made may also be affected as we gain a more thorough understanding of the tax law. As a consequence, it is possible that the estimate included within our 2017 fiscal results is revised in a manner that negatively effects future earnings.. The market value of our common stock may fluctuate and could be substantially affected by various factors.. The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate and the fluctuations may be unrelated to our financial performance. Our share price may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors that could cause fluctuation of our stock price include, but are not limited to, the following:. •  Actual or anticipated variations in our earnings, financial or operating performance or liquidity, or those of other companies in our industry;     •  Changes in recommendations or projections of research analysts who follow our stock or the stock of other companies in our industry;     •  Failure to meet the earnings projections of research analysts who follow our stock;     •  Changes in general economic and capital market conditions, including general market price declines or market volatility;     •  Reactions to our regulatory filings and announcements related to our business;     •  Operating and stock performance of other companies in our industry;     •  Actions by government regulators;     •  Litigation involving our company, our general industry or both;     •  News reports or trends, concerns and other issues related to us or our industry, including changes in regulations; and     •  Other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. Our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome resulting from these risks and uncertainties."
