[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Factors That Could Affect Future Results. Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business. We are highly dependent on the commercial success of EXONDYS 51 in the U.S.; we may not be able to meet expectations with respect to EXONDYS 51 sales or attain profitability and positive cash-flow from operations.. On September 19, 2016, the FDA granted accelerated approval for EXONDYS 51 as a therapeutic treatment for DMD in patients who have a confirmed mutation in the DMD gene that is amenable to exon 51 skipping. EXONDYS 51 is currently commercially available in the U.S. only, although it is available in certain countries outside of the U.S. on a named patient basis and through our MAP. The commercial success of EXONDYS 51 continues to depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. •  the effectiveness of our sales, managed markets, marketing efforts and support for EXONDYS 51;. •  the consistency of any new data we collect and analyses we conduct with prior results, whether they support a favorable safety and efficacy profile of EXONDYS 51 and any potential impact on our FDA accelerated approval status and/or FDA package insert for EXONDYS 51;. -27-. •  the effectiveness of our ongoing EXONDYS 51 commercialization activities, including negotiating and entering into any additional commercial, supply and distribution contracts, scaling up manufacturing and hiring any additional personnel as needed to support commercial efforts;. •  our ability to comply with FDA post-marketing requirements and commitments, including through successfully conducting additional studies that confirm clinical efficacy and safety of EXONDYS 51 and acceptance of the same by the FDA and medical community since continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of a clinical benefit in confirmatory trials;. •  the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse, or any unfavorable publicity in these areas;. •  the cost-effectiveness of EXONDYS 51 and whether we can consistently manufacture it in commercial quantities and at acceptable costs;. •  the rate and consistency with which EXONDYS 51 is prescribed by physicians, which depends on physicians' views on the safety and efficacy of EXONDYS 51;. •  our ability to secure and maintain adequate reimbursement for EXONDYS 51, including during re-authorizations processes that may be required for patients who initially obtained coverage by third parties, including government payors, managed care organizations and private health insurers;. •  our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for EXONDYS 51, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties;. •  the development or commercialization of competing products or therapies for the treatment of DMD, or its symptoms, and the existence of competing clinical trials;. •  our ability to increase awareness of the importance of  genetic testing and knowing/understanding DMD mutations, and identifying and addressing procedural barriers to obtaining therapy;. •  our ability to remain compliant with laws and regulations that apply to us and our commercial activities;. •  the actual market-size, ability to identify patients and the demographics of patients eligible for EXONDYS 51, which may be different than expected;. •  the sufficiency of our drug supply to meet commercial and clinical demands which could be negatively impacted if our projections on the potential number of amenable patients and their average weight are inaccurate, we are subject to unanticipated regulatory requirements that increase our drug supply needs, our current drug supply is destroyed or negatively impacted at our manufacturing sites, storage sites or in transit, or it takes longer than we project for the number of patients we anticipate to get on EXONDYS 51 and any significant portion of our EXONDYS 51 supply expires before we are able to sell it;. •  our ability to obtain regulatory approvals to commercialize EXONDYS 51 in markets outside of the U.S.; and. •  the awareness of patients with DMD of their mutation and whether the mutation is amenable to EXONDYS 51.. In addition, the process leading to a patient's first infusion of EXONDYS 51 may be slower for certain patients. For example, the time to first infusion may take longer if a patient chooses to put in an intravenous port, which eases access to the vein. As the launch of EXONDYS 51 continues to progress, we expect the variation among patients to decline, leading to a faster time to infusion. However, delays in the process prior to first infusion could negatively impact the sales of EXONDYS 51.. We may experience significant fluctuations in sales of EXONDYS 51 from period to period and, ultimately, we may never generate sufficient revenues from EXONDYS 51 to reach or maintain profitability or sustain our anticipated levels of operations.. -28-. We may not be able to expand the global footprint of, or obtain any significant revenues, from sales of eteplirsen outside of the U.S.. Although we contracted with third party distributors to distribute eteplirsen in certain countries outside the U.S. on a named patient basis, and initiated a limited launch of an ex-U.S. eteplirsen MAP, which we plan to expand to other jurisdictions in the future, and although we continue to pursue regulatory approval of eteplirsen in certain targeted jurisdictions, such as the EU and Israel, we may not be successful in expanding access to eteplirsen nor produce any significant revenues from eteplirsen sales outside of the U.S. For example, healthcare providers in MAP jurisdictions may not be convinced that their patients can benefit from eteplirsen or may prefer to wait until such time as eteplirsen is approved by a regulatory authority in their country before prescribing eteplirsen. Even if a healthcare provider is interested in obtaining access to eteplirsen for its patient through the MAP, the patient will not be able to obtain access to eteplirsen if payment for the drug is not secured. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval in the jurisdictions we have targeted, such as the EU, if our product approval applications, data packages submitted to regulatory authorities, and any additional data and analyses we submit in response to requests and concerns from regulatory authorities, do not support or convince regulatory authorities of the safety and efficacy of eteplirsen. If we fail to obtain regulatory approvals, particularly for our eteplirsen MAA in the EU, our ability to make revenues from eteplirsen sales outside of the U.S. will be limited. Even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval of eteplirsen outside of the U.S., our revenue earning capacity will depend on commercial and medical infrastructure, pricing and reimbursement negotiations and decisions with third party payors, including government payors. See \" -  Even though EXONDYS 51 has been approved for marketing in the U.S., we may not receive approval to commercialize EXONDYS 51 outside of the U.S.\". EXONDYS 51 may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could negatively impact its U.S. approval status and/or limit its commercial potential outside of the U.S.. If we or others identify previously unknown side effects, in particular if they are severe, or if known side effects are more frequent or severe than in the past, then:. •  sales of EXONDYS 51 may decrease;. •  regulatory approvals for EXONDYS 51 may be restricted, withdrawn or pending applications for approvals may be rejected;. •  we may decide to, or be required to, send product warning letters or field alerts to physicians, pharmacists and hospitals;. •  additional non-clinical or clinical trials, changes in labeling or changes to manufacturing processes, specifications and/or facilities may be required;. •  our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and. •  government investigations or lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us.. Any of the above occurrences would harm or prevent sales of EXONDYS 51, increase our expenses and impair our ability to successfully commercialize EXONDYS 51. Furthermore, as EXONDYS 51 is used in wider populations and in a less rigorously controlled environment than in clinical trials, regulatory authorities, healthcare practitioners, third party payors or patients may perceive or conclude that the use of EXONDYS 51 is associated with previously unknown serious adverse effects, undermining our commercialization efforts.. -29-. We currently rely on third parties to manufacture EXONDYS 51 and to produce our product candidates; our dependence on these parties, including any inability on our part to accurately anticipate product demand and timely secure manufacturing capacity to meet commercial, MAP, clinical and pre-clinical product demand may impair the availability of product to successfully support various programs, including research and development and the potential commercialization of our product candidates.. We currently do not have the internal ability to undertake the manufacturing process for EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates in the quantities needed to meet commercial, clinical or MAP demand for EXONDYS 51, or to conduct our research and development programs and conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, including PPMO. Therefore, we rely on, and expect to continue relying on for the foreseeable future, a limited number of third parties to manufacture and supply materials (including raw materials and subunits), API and drug product, as well as to perform additional steps in the manufacturing process, such as labeling and packaging of vials and storage of EXONDYS 51 and our product candidates. There are a limited number of third parties with facilities and capabilities suited for the manufacturing process of EXONDYS 51 and our product candidates, which creates a heightened risk that we may not be able to obtain materials and APIs in the quantity and purity that we require. In addition, the process for adding new manufacturing capacity can be lengthy and could cause delays in our development efforts. Any interruption of the development or operation of those facilities due to, among other reasons, events such as order delays for equipment or materials, equipment malfunction, quality control and quality assurance issues, regulatory delays and possible negative effects of such delays on supply chains and expected timelines for product availability, production yield issues, shortages of qualified personnel, discontinuation of a facility or business or failure or damage to a facility by natural disasters such as earthquake or fire, could result in the cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the manufacturing process or a shortfall in available EXONDYS 51, product candidates or materials.. If these third parties were to cease providing quality manufacturing and related services to us, and we are not able to engage appropriate replacements in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates in sufficient quality and quantity required for our planned commercial, pre-clinical and clinical or MAP use of EXONDYS 51 would adversely affect our various product research, development and commercialization efforts.. We have, through our third party manufacturers, produced or are in the process of producing supply of our product candidates and EXONDYS 51, respectively, based on our current understanding of market demands and our anticipated needs for our research and development efforts, clinical trials, MAPs and commercial sales. In light of the limited number of third parties with the expertise to produce EXONDYS 51 and our product candidates, the lead time needed to manufacture them, and the availability of underlying materials, we may not be able to, in a timely manner or at all, establish or maintain sufficient commercial and other manufacturing arrangements on the commercially reasonable terms necessary to provide adequate supply of EXONDYS 51 and our other product candidates to meet demands that meet or exceed our projected needs. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain the significant financial capital that may be required in connection with such arrangements. Even after successfully engaging third parties to execute the manufacturing process for EXONDYS 51 and our product candidates, such parties may not comply with the terms and timelines they have agreed to for various reasons, some of which may be out of their or our control, which could impact our ability to execute our business plans on expected or required timelines in connection with the commercialization of EXONDYS 51 and the continued development of our product candidates, including our follow-on exon-skipping product candidates and PPMO. We may also be required to enter into long-term manufacturing agreements that contain exclusivity provisions and /or substantial termination penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business prior to and after commercialization.. The third parties we use in the manufacturing process for EXONDYS 51 and our product candidates may fail to comply with cGMP regulations.. Our contract manufacturers are required to produce our materials, APIs and drug products under cGMP. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA, EMA and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations. While we work diligently with all contract manufacturers to maintain full compliance, we do not have direct control over a third party manufacturer's compliance with these regulations and requirements. In addition, changes in cGMP could negatively impact the ability of our contract manufacturers to complete the manufacturing process of EXONDYS 51 and our product candidates in a compliant manner on the schedule we require for commercial and clinical trial use, respectively. The failure to achieve and maintain compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations, including failure to detect or control anticipated or unanticipated manufacturing errors, could result in product recalls, clinical holds, delayed or withheld approvals, patient injury or death. This risk is particularly heightened as we optimize manufacturing for follow-on exon skipping products and next-generation technologies such as PPMO. If our contract manufacturers fail to adhere to applicable cGMP and other applicable government regulations, or experience manufacturing problems, we will suffer significant consequences, including product seizures or recalls, postponement or. -30-. cancellation of clinical trials, loss or delay of product approval, fines and sanctions, loss of revenue, termination of the development of a product candidate, reputational damage, shipment delays, inventory shortages, inventory write-offs and other product-related charges and increased manufacturing costs. If we experience any of these results, the success of our commercialization of EXONDYS 51 and/or our development efforts for our product candidates, including golodirsen, casimersen and SRP-5051, could be significantly delayed, fail or otherwise be negatively impacted.. We may not be able to successfully scale up manufacturing of EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates in sufficient quality and quantity or within sufficient timelines, or be able to secure ownership of intellectual property rights developed in this process, which could negatively impact the commercial success of EXONDYS 51 and/or the development of our product candidates and next generation chemistries like PPMO.. We are working to increase manufacturing capacity and scale up production of some of the components of our drug products. During the remainder of 2017, our focus remains on (i) achieving larger-scale manufacturing capacity for EXONDYS 51 throughout the manufacturing supply chain (ii) continuing to increase material and API production capacity to provide the anticipated amounts of drug product needed for our planned studies for our product candidates and (iii) optimizing manufacturing for our follow-on exon skipping product candidates, including PPMO. We may not be able to successfully increase manufacturing capacity or scale up the production of materials, APIs and drug products, whether in collaboration with third party manufacturers or on our own, in a manner that is safe, compliant with cGMP conditions or other applicable legal or regulatory requirements, in a cost-effective manner, in a time frame required to meet our timeline for commercialization, clinical trials and other business plans, or at all. Compliance with cGMP requirements and other quality issues may arise during our efforts to increase manufacturing capacity and scale up production with our current or any new contract manufacturers. These issues may arise in connection with the underlying materials, the inherent properties of EXONDYS 51 or a product candidate, EXONDYS 51 or a product candidate in combination with other components added during the manufacturing and packaging process or during shipping and storage of the APIs or finished drug product. In addition, in order to release EXONDYS 51 for commercial use and demonstrate stability of product candidates for use in clinical trials (and any subsequent drug products for commercial use), our manufacturing processes and analytical methods must be validated in accordance with regulatory guidelines. We may not be able to successfully validate, or maintain validation of, our manufacturing processes and analytical methods or demonstrate adequate purity, stability or comparability of EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all. If we are unable to successfully validate our manufacturing processes and analytical methods or to demonstrate adequate purity, stability or comparability, the commercial availability of EXONDYS 51 and the continued development and/or regulatory approval of our product candidates, including PPMO, may be delayed or otherwise negatively impacted, which could significantly harm our business.. During work with our third party manufacturers to increase and optimize manufacturing capacity and scale up production, it is possible that they could make proprietary improvements in the manufacturing and scale-up processes for EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates, including PPMO. We may not own or be able to secure ownership of such improvements or may have to share the intellectual property rights to those improvements. Additionally, it is possible that we will need additional processes, technologies and validation studies, which could be costly and which we may not be able to develop or acquire from third parties. Any failure to secure the intellectual rights required for the manufacturing process needed for large-scale clinical trials or commercialization of EXONDYS 51 or the continued development of our product candidates, including PPMO, could cause significant delays in our business plans or otherwise negatively impact the commercialization of EXONDYS 51 or the continued development of our product candidates, including PPMO.. If we are unable to maintain our agreements with third parties to distribute EXONDYS 51 to patients, our results of operations and business could be adversely affected.. We rely on third parties to commercially distribute EXONDYS 51 to patients in the U.S. We have contracted with a third party logistics company to warehouse EXONDYS 51 and with distributors and specialty pharmacies to sell and distribute it to patients. A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that require a high level of patient education and ongoing management.. This distribution network requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing and finance organizations. In addition, failure to coordinate financial systems could negatively impact our ability to accurately report product revenue from EXONDYS 51. If we are unable to effectively manage the distribution process, the sales of EXONDYS 51, as well as any future products we may commercialize, could be delayed or severely compromised and our results of operations may be harmed.. -31-. In addition, the use of third parties involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these organizations will:. •  not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using EXONDYS 51 or serious adverse events and/or product complaints regarding EXONDYS 51;. •  not effectively sell or support EXONDYS 51;. •  reduce or discontinue their efforts to sell or support EXONDYS 51;. •  not devote the resources necessary to sell EXONDYS 51 in the volumes and within the time frame we expect;. •  be unable to satisfy financial obligations to us or others; or. •  cease operations.. Any such events may result in decreased product sales, lower product revenue, loss of revenue, and/or reputational damage, which would harm our results of operations and business.. With respect to the pre-commercial distribution of eteplirsen to patients outside of the U.S., we have contracted with third party distributors and service providers to distribute eteplirsen in certain countries on a named patient basis and through our ex-U.S. MAP. We will need to continue building out our network for commercial distribution in jurisdictions in which eteplirsen is approved, which will also require third party contracts. The use of distributors and service providers involves certain risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these organizations will not comply with applicable laws and regulations, or not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding serious adverse events and/or product complaints regarding eteplirsen. Any such events may result in regulatory actions that may include suspension or termination of the distribution and sale of eteplirsen in a certain country, loss of revenue, and/or reputational damage, which could harm our results of operations and business.. If we are unable to successfully maintain and further develop internal commercialization capabilities, sales of EXONDYS 51 may be negatively impacted.. We have hired and trained a commercial team and put in the organizational infrastructure we believe we need to support the commercial success of EXONDYS 51 in the U.S. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to maintain and further develop commercial capabilities include:. •  an inability to retain an adequate number of effective commercial personnel;. •  an inability to train sales personnel, who may have limited experience with our company or EXONDYS 51, to deliver a consistent message regarding EXONDYS 51 and be effective in convincing physicians to prescribe EXONDYS 51;. •  an inability to equip sales personnel with compliant and effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them educate physicians and our healthcare providers regarding EXONDYS 51 and its proper administration and educate payors on the safety and efficacy profile of EXONDYS 51 to support favorable coverage decisions; and. •  unforeseen costs and expenses associated with maintaining and further developing an independent sales and marketing organization.. If we are not successful in maintaining an effective commercial, sales and marketing infrastructure, we will encounter difficulty in achieving, maintaining or increasing projected sales of EXONDYS 51 in the U.S., which would adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We are subject to uncertainty relating to reimbursement policies which, if not favorable for EXONDYS 51, could hinder or prevent EXONDYS 51's commercial success.. Our ability to successfully maintain and/or increase EXONDYS 51 sales in the U.S. depends in part on the coverage and reimbursement levels set by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the effectiveness of and prices charged for medical products and services. We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate third party coverage or reimbursement for EXONDYS 51, or we may be required to sell EXONDYS 51 at an unsatisfactory price.. -32-. We expect that private insurers will continue to consider the efficacy, cost-effectiveness and safety of EXONDYS 51, including any new data and analyses that we are able to collect and make available in a compliant manner, in determining whether to approve reimbursement for EXONDYS 51 and at what levels. If any new data and information we collect is not favorable, third party insurers may make coverage decisions that negatively impact sales of EXONDYS 51. We continue to have discussions with payors, some of which may eventually deny coverage. We may not receive approval for reimbursement of EXONDYS 51 from additional insurers on a satisfactory rate or basis, in which case our business would be materially adversely affected. In addition, obtaining these approvals can be a time consuming and expensive process. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we are not able to maintain favorable coverage decisions and/or fail to receive additional favorable coverage decisions from third party insurers, in particular during re-authorization processes for patients that have already initiated therapy. Our business could also be adversely affected if insurers, including managed care organizations, the Medicare or Medicaid programs or other reimbursing bodies or payors limit the indications for which EXONDYS 51 will be reimbursed or fail to recognize accelerated approval and surrogate endpoints as clinically meaningful.. Additionally, in the wake of government and public scrutiny of pharmaceutical pricing practices, there have been efforts at the federal and state levels to implement legislation or regulations to promote transparency in drug pricing or limit drug prices. Such initiatives are likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs.. In some foreign countries, particularly Canada and the countries of Europe, Latin America and Asia Pacific, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to strict governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take 12 to 24 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. In order to obtain favorable reimbursement for the indications sought or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to collect additional data, including conducting additional studies. Furthermore, several European countries have implemented government measures to either freeze or reduce pricing of pharmaceutical products. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable in any country in which reimbursement is sought, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed.. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of EXONDYS 51 and our future products due to a number of factors, including current and future healthcare reforms and initiatives by government health programs and private insurers (including managed care plans) to reduce healthcare costs.. Healthcare reform and other governmental and private payor initiatives may have an adverse effect upon, and could prevent commercial success of EXONDYS 51 and our other product candidates.. The U.S. government and individual states have aggressively pursued healthcare reform, as evidenced by the passing of the Healthcare Reform Act and the ongoing efforts to modify or repeal that legislation. The Healthcare Reform Act substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and contains a number of provisions that affect coverage and reimbursement of drug products and/or that could potentially reduce the demand for pharmaceutical products such as increasing drug rebates under state Medicaid programs for brand name prescription drugs and extending those rebates to Medicaid managed care and assessing a fee on manufacturers and importers of brand name prescription drugs reimbursed under certain government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Other aspects of healthcare reform, such as expanded government enforcement authority and heightened standards that could increase compliance-related costs, could also affect our business. Modifications have been implemented under the Trump Administration and additional modifications or repeal may occur.  See \"GOVERNMENT REGULATION- Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement- Third Party Reimbursement and Pricing in the U.S.-Healthcare and Other Reform.\" We cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any changes to the Healthcare Reform Act or other federal and state reform efforts. There is no assurance that federal or state health care reform will not adversely affect our future business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative, judicial or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business.. -33-. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid healthcare costs, including price controls, waiver from Medicaid drug rebate law requirements, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs.  We anticipate that the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and the private sector will continue to consider and may adopt healthcare policies intended to curb rising healthcare costs. These cost containment measures may include:. •  controls on government funded reimbursement for drugs;. •  caps or mandatory discounts under certain government sponsored programs;. •  controls on healthcare providers;. •  challenges to the pricing of drugs or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific products through other means;. •  reform of drug importation laws;. •  delegation of decision making to state Medicaid agencies and waiver of reimbursement requirements;. •  expansion of use of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person; and. •  prohibition on direct-to-consumer advertising or drug marketing practices.. We are unable to predict what additional legislation, regulations or policies, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation, regulations or policies would have on our business. Any cost containment measures, including those listed above, or other healthcare system reforms that are adopted, could significantly decrease the available coverage and the price we might establish for EXONDYS 51 and our other potential products, which would have an adverse effect on our net revenues and operating results.. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 also provides the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA's exercise of this authority could result in increased development-related costs following the commercial launch of EXONDYS 51, and could result in potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of EXONDYS 51, even in its approved indications and patient populations.. Even though EXONDYS 51 received accelerated approval by the FDA as a treatment for DMD in patients who have a confirmed mutation in the DMD gene that is amenable to exon 51 skipping, it faces future post-approval development and regulatory requirements, which will present additional challenges we will need to successfully navigate.. On September 19, 2016, the FDA granted accelerated approval for EXONDYS 51 as a therapeutic treatment for patients with DMD who have a confirmed mutation in the DMD gene that is amenable to exon 51 skipping. This indication is based on an increase in dystrophin in skeletal muscles observed in some patients treated with EXONDYS 51. EXONDYS 51 will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping, and we are required to submit additional safety, efficacy and other post-marketing information.. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of a clinical benefit in confirmatory trials. These post-approval requirements and commitments may not be feasible and/or could impose significant burdens and costs on us; could negatively impact our development, manufacturing and supply of EXONDYS 51; and could negatively impact our financial results. Failure to meet post-approval commitments and requirements, including completion of enrollment and in particular, any failure to obtain positive safety and efficacy data from our ongoing and planned EXONDYS 51 studies, would lead to negative regulatory action from the FDA and/or withdrawal of regulatory approval of EXONDYS 51, and could also negatively impact a decision from EMA on our MAA. In addition, if additional data we collect on eteplirsen in connection with our MAA does not support the safety and efficacy or EXONDYS 51, our approval status in the U.S. could be negatively impacted.. -34-. Manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP regulations. Drug product manufacturers are required to continuously monitor and report adverse events from clinical trials and commercial use of the product. If we or a regulatory agency discover previously unknown adverse events or events of unanticipated severity or frequency, a regulatory agency may require labeling changes implementation of risk evaluation and mitigation strategy program, or additional post-marketing studies or clinical trials.  If we or a regulatory agency discover previously unknown problems with a product, such as problems with a facility where the API or drug product is manufactured or tested, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product and/or the manufacturer, including removal of specific product lots from the market, withdrawal of the product from the market, or suspension of manufacturing. Sponsors of drugs approved under FDA accelerated approval provisions also are required to submit to FDA, at least 30 days before initial use, all promotional materials intended for use after the first 120 days following marketing approval. If we or the manufacturing facilities for EXONDYS 51 fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:. •  issue warning letters or untitled letters;. •  seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines;. •  suspend or withdraw or alter the conditions of our marketing approval;. •  mandate modifications to promotional materials or require us to provide corrective information to healthcare practitioners;. •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. •  require us to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance;. •  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications submitted by us;. •  suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;. •  seize or detain products, refuse to permit the import or export of products or require us to initiate a product recall; or. •  refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts.. Even though EXONDYS 51 has been approved for marketing in the U.S., we may not receive approval to commercialize EXONDYS 51 outside of the U.S.. We are not permitted to market or sell EXONDYS 51 in the EU or in any other foreign countries on a commercial basis until we receive the requisite approval from such country's regulatory authorities. In order to market any product in a foreign country, we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements for approval in those countries regarding demonstration of evidence of the product's safety and efficacy and governing, among other things, labeling, distribution, advertising, and promotion, as well as pricing and reimbursement of the product. Approval procedures vary among countries, and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ significantly from that required to obtain approval in the U.S. In particular, in many foreign countries, it is required that a product receives pricing and reimbursement approval before the product can be distributed commercially. This can result in substantial delays, and the price that is ultimately approved in some countries may be lower than the price for which we expect to offer EXONDYS 51.. Marketing approval in one country does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one country may have a negative effect on the approval process in others. Failure to obtain marketing approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to develop foreign markets for eteplirsen and could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Any such complications may reduce our target market and delay or limit the full commercial potential of eteplirsen. Many foreign countries are undertaking cost-containment measures that could affect pricing or reimbursement of eteplirsen.. -35-. In November 2016, we submitted an MAA for eteplirsen to the EMA. The application was validated in December 2016 and is currently under review. We believe that we submitted a robust package of clinical, dystrophin and safety data to support the review of eteplirsen; however, EMA may or could take a different view. We also believe that, in contrast to the FDA approval, the clinical data will be central in evaluating the application, while dystrophin will be supportive of the drug's mechanism of action. Obtaining approval of an MAA or any other application for approval in a foreign country is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the regulatory authority may reject an application or delay, limit or deny approval of eteplirsen for many reasons, including:. •  we may not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of foreign regulatory authorities that eteplirsen is safe and effective for the treatment of patients with DMD who have a confirmed mutation in the DMD gene that is amenable to exon 51 skipping;. •  the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required for approval by foreign regulatory authorities;. •  foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the adequacy (number, design, size, controls, conduct or implementation) of our clinical trials prior to granting approval, and we may not be able to generate the required data on a timely basis, or at all;. •  regulatory authorities may conclude that data we submit to them, including data from clinical trials or any other additional data and analyses we submit in support of an approval or in response to requests from regulatory authorities, fail to demonstrate an appropriate level of safety or efficacy of eteplirsen or that eteplirsen's clinical benefits outweigh its safety risks; or such regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical trials or clinical trials and require that we conduct one or more additional trials;. •  regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites or require us to generate additional data or information;. •  regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may impose limitations or restrictions on the approved labeling of eteplirsen, thus limiting intended users or providing an additional hurdle for market acceptance of the product;. •  regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes, or may require us to change our manufacturing process or specifications;. •  we may not be able to validate our manufacturing process to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities outside the U.S. or demonstrate adequate cGMP compliance; or. •  regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may adopt new or revised approval policies and regulations.. If we are unable to execute effectively our sales and marketing activities outside the U.S., we may be unable to generate sufficient product revenue.. EXONDYS 51 is our first commercial product. As a result, our sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities are relatively new in the U.S. and we are currently in the process of building a commercial sales force in Europe. We plan to continue to build commercial infrastructure in the EU and in other key countries in order to be ready to launch eteplirsen with a relatively small specialty sales force in the event eteplirsen is ultimately approved in those jurisdictions. The establishment and development of our commercial infrastructure will continue to be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to successfully fully develop this capability in a timely manner or at all. We anticipate building sales, medical, marketing, managerial, distribution and other capabilities across multiple jurisdictions to prepare for potential approvals ex-U.S. Doing so will require a high degree of coordination and compliance with laws and regulations in such jurisdictions. If we are unable to effectively coordinate such activities or comply with such laws and regulations, our ability to commercialize eteplirsen in such jurisdictions will be adversely affected. Even if we are able to effectively hire a sales force and develop a marketing and sales capabilities, our sales force may not be successful in commercializing eteplirsen or any other product candidate that we develop. If we are unable to establish adequate manufacturing, sales, marketing, supply and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable outside of the U.S.. -36-. EXONDYS 51 may not be widely adopted by patients, payors or healthcare providers, which would adversely impact our potential profitability and future business prospects.. EXONDYS 51's commercial success, particularly in the near term in the U.S., depends upon its level of market adoption by patients, payors and healthcare providers. If EXONDYS 51 does not achieve an adequate level of market adoption for any reason, our potential profitability and our future business prospects will be severely adversely impacted. The degree of market acceptance of EXONDYS 51 depends on a number of factors, including:. •  our ability to demonstrate to the medical community, including specialists who may purchase or prescribe EXONDYS 51, the clinical efficacy and safety of EXONDYS 51 as the prescription product of choice DMD amenable to exon-51 skipping in the U.S.;. •  the effectiveness of our sales and marketing organizations and distribution networks;. •  the ability of patients or providers to be adequately reimbursed for EXONDYS 51 in a timely manner from government and private payors;. •  the actual and perceived efficacy and safety profile of EXONDYS 51, particularly if unanticipated adverse events related to EXONDYS 51 treatment arise and create safety concerns among potential patients or prescribers or if new data and analyses we obtain for eteplirsen do not support, or are interpreted by some parties to not support, the efficacy of EXONDYS 51; and. •  the efficacy and safety of our other exon-skipping product candidates, including our exon 45 and exon 53 product candidates, and third parties' competitive therapies.. The patient population suffering from DMD, and in particular those with mutations amenable to exon-51 skipping, is small and has not been established with precision. If the actual number of patients is smaller than we estimate, our revenue and ability to achieve profitability may be adversely affected.. DMD is a fatal genetic neuromuscular disorder affecting an estimated one in approximately every 3,500 to 5,000 males born worldwide, of which up to 13% are estimated to be amenable to exon-51 skipping. Our estimate of the size of the patient population is based on published studies as well as internal analyses. If the results of these studies or our analysis of them do not accurately reflect the number of patients with DMD, our assessment of the market may be inaccurate, making it difficult or impossible for us to meet our revenue goals, or to obtain and maintain profitability. The small population of DMD patients may also delay patients' recruitment for our clinical trials, especially in light of competing clinical trials.. Since EXONDYS 51 targets a small patient population, the per-patient drug pricing must be high in order to recover our development and manufacturing costs, fund adequate patient support programs, fund additional research and achieve profitability. We may be unable to maintain or obtain sufficient sales volumes at a price high enough to justify our product development efforts and our sales, marketing and manufacturing expenses.. We have been granted orphan drug exclusivity for EXONDYS 51 in the U.S. and an orphan drug designation for eteplirsen in the EU, however, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to maintain orphan exclusivity for such product and product candidates nor that we will receive orphan drug approval or exclusivity and prevent third parties from developing and commercializing products that are competitive to EXONDYS 51 or our other product candidates.. To date, we have been granted orphan drug exclusivity for EXONDYS 51 in the U.S and an orphan drug designation in the EU for eteplirsen. Product candidates granted orphan status in Europe can be provided with up to ten years of marketing exclusivity, meaning that another application for marketing authorization of a later, similar medicinal product for the same therapeutic indication will generally not be approved in Europe during that time period. Although we may have product candidates that obtain orphan drug exclusivity in Europe, the orphan status and associated exclusivity period may be modified for several reasons, including a significant change to the orphan medicinal product designations or status criteria after-market authorization of the orphan product ( e.g., product profitability exceeds the criteria for orphan drug designation), problems with the production or supply of the orphan drug, or a competitor drug, although similar, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior than the initial orphan drug.. As discussed above, we are not guaranteed to receive or maintain orphan status for our current or future product candidates, and if our product candidates that are granted orphan status were to lose their status as orphan drugs or the marketing exclusivity provided for them in the U.S. or the EU, our business and operations could be adversely affected. While orphan status for any of our products, if granted or maintained, would provide market exclusivity in the U.S. and. -37-. the EU for the time periods specified above upon approval, we would not be able to exclude other companies from obtaining regulatory approval of products using the same active ingredient for the same indication beyond the exclusivity period applicable to our product on the basis of orphan drug status. In addition, we cannot guarantee that another company will not receive approval to market a product candidate that is granted orphan drug status in the U.S. or the EU for the same drug and orphan indication as any of our product candidates for which we plan to file an NDA or MAA. If that were to happen, any pending NDA or MAA for our product candidate for that indication may not be approved until the competing company's period of exclusivity has expired in the U.S. or the EU, as applicable.. If we are unable to maintain or obtain orphan drug exclusivity for EXONDYS 51 or other products in the U.S., we may face increased competition.. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition affecting fewer than 200,000 people in the U.S. A company that first obtains FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for the specified rare disease or condition generally receives orphan drug marketing exclusivity for that drug for a period of seven years from the date of its approval. This orphan drug exclusivity prevents the approval of another drug containing the same active moiety used for the same orphan indication, except in circumstances where, based on the FDA's determination, a subsequent drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care, or if the orphan drug manufacturer is unable to assure that a sufficient quantity of the orphan drug is available to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. Orphan drug exclusivity may also be lost if the FDA later determines that the initial request for designation was materially defective. EXONDYS 51 was granted orphan drug exclusivity in the U.S. through September 19, 2023 for the treatment of DMD in patients who have a confirmed mutation of the DMD gene that is amenable to exon 51 skipping. However, such exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition if the FDA determines that a subsequent drug containing the same active moiety for the same indication is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care, or if we are unable to assure the FDA that sufficient quantities of EXONDYS 51 are available to meet patient demand. In addition, orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving competing drugs for the same or similar indication containing a different active moiety or from approving a drug containing the same active moiety for a different indication. If a subsequent drug is approved for marketing for the same or similar indication, we may face increased competition, and our revenues from the sale of EXONDYS 51 will be adversely affected.. We could incur significant liability if it is determined that we are promoting any \"off-label\" use of EXONDYS 51.. Physicians are permitted to prescribe drug products for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and that differ from those approved by applicable regulatory agencies. Off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Although the FDA and other regulatory agencies do not regulate a physician's choice of treatments, the FDA and other regulatory agencies do generally prohibit advertising and promotion of off-label uses of approved drug products or promotion of an approved drug on information that is not in the final, FDA-approved label for a product and restrict communications on off-label use. Accordingly, we may not promote EXONDYS 51 in the U.S. for use in any indications other than for the treatment of DMD in patients who have a confirmed mutation in the DMD gene that is amenable to exon 51 skipping. Additionally, we face limitations on our ability to promote EXONDYS 51 based on any information that is not included in the final FDA-approved label, including previously published clinical data. The FDA and other regulatory authorities actively enforce laws and regulations prohibiting promotion of a product for off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing approval has not been obtained. A company that is found to have improperly promoted its drug product will be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions.. Notwithstanding the regulatory restrictions on off-label promotion, the FDA and other regulatory authorities allow companies to engage in truthful, non-misleading and non-promotional scientific exchange concerning their products and recent FDA guidance suggests that there are circumstances in which the FDA would not object to the promotion of certain information that is not included in the approved labeling but that is consistent with the approved labeling. We intend to engage in medical education activities and communicate with healthcare providers in compliance with all applicable laws, regulatory guidance and industry best practices. Although we have established a compliance program and continue to enhance it to ensure that all such activities are performed in a legal and compliant manner, EXONDYS 51 is our first commercial product which could increase risk of non-compliance with our internal compliance policies and applicable rules and regulations, which could negatively impact our business.. -38-. Most of our product candidates are at an early stage of development and may never receive regulatory approval.. Other than EXONDYS 51, which the FDA approved for use in the U.S. in September 2016 and for which we filed an MAA in November 2016 with the EMA, our most advanced product candidates are exon 45- and 53-skipping products (casimersen and golodirsen, respectively), PPMO DMD exon 51 skipping product (SRP-5051), and Nationwide Children's Hospital's micro-dystrophin gene therapy program and Galgt2 gene therapy program.. We are in the process of conducting, starting or planning various EXONDYS 51 clinical trials, including trials that are required to comply with regulatory NDA and/or MAA filing requirements as well as studies we need to conduct to comply with our post-marketing FDA requirements/commitments to verify and describe clinical benefit. The exon 53-skipping product candidate, which we are working on with the SKIP-NMD consortium, is currently in the clinic. The Part I dose-titration portion of this Phase 1/2a study has been completed and Part II open label portion of the study is ongoing. We have also completed the dose titration portion and are conducting the open-label portion of a study for our exon 45-skipping product candidate. Additionally, we are enrolling patients for a clinical trial using exon 45- and 53-skipping product candidates, which we refer to as the ESSENCE study. We have also initiated a first in human study for PPMO DMD exon 51 (SRP-5051). In addition, Nationwide Children's Hospital, with whom we are collaborating, initiated Phase 1/2a clinical trials for their micro-dystrophin gene therapy program and their Galgt2 gene therapy program.. The remainder of our product candidates are in discovery or early stages of development. These product candidates will require significant further development, financial resources and personnel to develop into commercially viable products and obtain regulatory approval, if at all. Currently, our exon 45-skipping product candidate, the exon 53-skipping product candidate we are developing with the SKIP-NMD consortium, and the PPMO exon 51 product candidate, each for DMD, are in active clinical development. In addition, both the micro-dystrophin gene therapy program and the Galgt2 gene therapy program of Nationwide Children's Hospital, with whom we are collaborating, have entered into the clinic. Our other product candidates are in discovery, pre-clinical development or inactive. Given the FDA approval of EXONDYS 51, we expect that much of our effort and many of our expenditures over the next several years will be devoted to clinical development and regulatory activities associated with EXONDYS 51 and other exon-skipping candidates as part of our larger follow-on exon strategy in DMD, our other disease candidates, our proprietary chemistry, and other potential therapeutic areas that provide long-term market opportunities. We may be delayed, restricted, or unable to further develop our active and other product candidates or successfully obtain approvals needed to market them. Although EXONDYS 51 was approved under accelerated approval by the FDA in the U.S., we may not be able to obtain an approval of EXONDYS 51 in the EU.. Our RNA-targeted antisense technologies have only been incorporated into one therapeutic commercial product and additional studies may not demonstrate safety or efficacy of our technologies in other product candidates.. Our RNA-targeted platform, utilizing proprietary PMO-based technology has only been incorporated into one therapeutic commercial product to date, EXONDYS 51, however, our confirmatory trials for EXONDYS 51 must verify and describe the clinical benefits in order for EXONDYS 51 to remain approved in the U.S. Although we have conducted and are in the process of conducting clinical trials with EXONDYS 51, an exon 45-skipping product candidate and an exon 53-skipping product candidate and pre-clinical trials with our other product candidates that use our PMO-based antisense technology, additional studies may be needed to determine the safety and efficacy of our PMO-based antisense technology, including our novel PPMO technology. In addition, nonclinical models used to evaluate the activity and toxicity of product candidate compounds are not necessarily predictive of toxicity or efficacy of these compounds in the treatment of human disease. As such, there may be substantially different results observed in clinical trials from those observed in pre-clinical trials. Any failures or setbacks in developing or utilizing our PMO-based technologies, including adverse effects in humans, could have a detrimental impact on our product candidate pipeline and our ability to maintain and/or enter into new corporate collaborations regarding these technologies, which would negatively affect our business and financial condition.. Our pre-clinical and clinical trials may fail to demonstrate acceptable levels of safety, efficacy, and quality of our product candidates, including those based on our PMO-based technologies, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval.. To obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market and sell any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate, through extensive pre-clinical and clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective in humans. Ongoing and future pre-clinical and clinical trials of our product candidates may not show sufficient safety, efficacy or adequate quality to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals. For example, although the pre-clinical data for PPMO. -39-. collected to date is promising, the additional data we collect, including in the clinic, may not be consistent with the pre-clinical data or show a safe benefit that warrants further development or pursuit of a regulatory approval for PPMO product candidates. Furthermore, success in pre-clinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that the subsequent trials will be successful, nor does it predict final results of a confirmatory trial. For example, we cannot provide assurances that data from our EXONDYS 51 ongoing studies will be positive and consistent through the study periods or that the interpretation by regulators, such as the FDA or EMA, of the data we collect for our product candidates will be consistent with our interpretations. If our study data do not consistently or sufficiently demonstrate the safety or efficacy of any of our product candidates, including for those that are based on our PMO-based technologies, then the regulatory approvals for such product candidates could be significantly delayed as we work to meet approval requirements, or, if we are not able to meet these requirements, such approvals could be withheld or withdrawn. The completion of pre-clinical and clinical trials and regulatory approvals may be delayed for other reasons, such as delays related to patients enrollment for reasons including small patient population, competing clinical trials and patients' concerns regarding trial design; manufacturing of product candidates; and clinical holds. For example, the U.K. Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency has recently required that dosing stop at all U.K. sites of our Study 4045-301 (ESSENCE) due to one serious adverse event that could possibly be related to the product candidate.. If there are significant delays in obtaining or we are unable to obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner or at all, which could impair our ability to generate sufficient revenue and have a successful business.. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, commercialization, marketing, selling and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by applicable local, regional and national regulatory authorities and regulations may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In the U.S., approvals and oversight from federal (e.g., FDA), state and other regulatory authorities are required for these activities. Sale and marketing of our product candidates in the U.S. or other countries is not permitted until we obtain the required approvals from the applicable regulatory authorities. Our ability to obtain the government or regulatory approvals required to commercialize any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction, including in the U.S. or the EU, cannot be assured, may be significantly delayed or may never be achieved for various reasons including the following:. •  Our non-clinical, clinical, Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls and other data and analyses from past, current and future studies for any of our product candidates may not be sufficient to meet regulatory requirements for marketing application approvals. The regulatory authorities could disagree with our interpretations and conclusions regarding data we provide in connection with NDA or MAA submissions for one or more of our product candidates, and may delay, reject or refuse to accept for review, or approve any NDA or MAA submission we make or identify additional requirements for product approval to be submitted upon completion, if ever. In addition, in the U.S., an FDA advisory committee could determine that our data are insufficient to provide a positive recommendation for approval of any NDA we submit to the FDA. Even if we meet FDA requirements and an advisory committee votes to recommend approval of an NDA submission, the FDA could still disagree with the advisory committee's recommendation and deny approval of a product candidate based on their review.. •  The regulatory approval process for product candidates targeting orphan diseases, such as DMD, that use new technologies and processes, such as antisense oligonucleotide therapies, and alternative approaches or endpoints for the determination of efficacy is uncertain due to, among other factors, evolving interpretations of a new therapeutic class, the broad discretion of regulatory authorities, lack of precedent, small safety databases, varying levels of applicable expertise of regulators or their advisory committees, scientific developments, changes in the competitor landscape, shifting political priorities and changes in applicable laws, rules or regulations and interpretations of the same. We cannot be sure that any of our product candidates will qualify for accelerated approval or any other expedited development, review and approval programs, or that, if a drug does qualify, that the product candidates will be approved, will be accepted as part of any such program or that the review time will be shorter than a standard review. As a result of uncertainty in the approval process for products intended to treat serious rare diseases, we may not be able to anticipate, prepare for or satisfy requests or requirements from regulatory authorities, including completing and submitting planned  NDAs and MAAs for our product candidates, in a timely manner, or at all. Examples of such requests or requirements could include, but are not limited to, conducting additional or redesigned trials and procedures (e.g., additional safety data, patient muscle biopsies and dystrophin analyses), repeating or completing additional analysis of our data, or providing additional supportive data. In addition, in the U.S., an FDA advisory committee or regulators may disagree with our data analysis, interpretations and conclusions at any point in the approval process, which could negatively impact the approval of our NDA or result in a decision by the Company not to proceed with an NDA submission for a product candidate based on feedback from regulators.. -40-. •  We may not have the resources required to meet regulatory requirements and successfully navigate what is generally a lengthy, expensive and extensive approval process for commercialization of drug product candidates. Any failure on our part to respond to these requirements in a timely and satisfactory manner could significantly delay or negatively impact confirmatory study timelines and/or the development plans we have for the exon 53-, exon 45- and PPMO exon 51-skipping or other product candidates. Responding to requests from regulators and meeting requirements for clinical trials, submissions and approvals may require substantial personnel, financial or other resources, which, as a small biopharmaceutical company, we may not be able to obtain in a timely manner or at all. In addition, our ability to respond to requests from regulatory authorities that involve our agents, third party vendors and associates may be complicated by our own limitations and those of the parties we work with. It may be difficult or impossible for us to conform to regulatory guidance or successfully execute our product development plans in response to regulatory guidance, including guidance related to clinical trial design with respect to any NDA or MAA submissions.. Due to the above factors, among others, our product candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect, or may never gain regulatory approval, which would delay or eliminate any potential commercialization or product revenue for us and result in a material adverse effect on the Company that could involve changes, delays in or terminations of programs in our pipeline, delays or terminations of pre-clinical and clinical trials, and termination of contracts related to the development of our product candidates which can include significant termination costs, workforce reductions and limited ability to raise additional funds to execute company plans.. Even if we are able to comply with all regulatory requests and requirements, the delays resulting from satisfying such requests and requirements, the cost of compliance, or the effect of regulatory decisions (e.g., decisions limiting labeling and indications requested by us for a product candidate) may no longer make commercialization of a product candidate desirable for us from a business perspective, which could lead us to decide not to commercialize a product candidate.. Even after approval and commercialization of a product candidate, we remain subject to ongoing regulatory compliance and oversight to maintain our approval. Conducting our confirmatory studies could take years to complete, could yield negative or uninterpretable results or could result in an FDA determination that the studies do not provide the safety and efficacy requirements to maintain regulatory approval. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties or we may not be permitted to continue marketing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and harm our competitive position in the market place.. If we fail to comply with healthcare and other regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. As a manufacturer of pharmaceuticals, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations will apply to or affect our business. The regulations include:. •  federal healthcare program anti-kickback laws, which prohibit, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid;. •  federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, information or claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payors that are false or fraudulent;. •  the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which among other things, strictly regulates drug product and medical device marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing such products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of samples;. •  federal laws that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report certain calculated product prices to the government or provide certain discounts or rebates to government authorities or private entities, often as a condition of reimbursement under government healthcare programs;. -41-. •  the so-called \"federal sunshine\" law, which requires pharmaceutical and medical device companies to monitor and report certain financial interactions with physicians and teaching hospitals to the federal government for re-disclosure to the public; and. •  state law equivalents of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third party payor, including commercial insurers, state laws regulating interactions between pharmaceutical manufactures and health care providers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Responding to government investigations, defending any claims raised, and any resulting fines, restitution, damages and penalties, settlement payments or administrative actions, as well as any related actions brought by stockholders or other third parties, could have a material impact on our reputation, business and financial condition and divert the attention of our management from operating our business.. The number and complexity of both federal and state laws continues to increase, and additional governmental resources are being used to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. In particular, the Healthcare Reform Act includes a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government's ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers, and amendments to the False Claims Act that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue cases for alleged kickback and false claim violations. While it is too early to predict what effect these changes will have on our business, we anticipate that government scrutiny of pharmaceutical sales and marketing practices will continue for the foreseeable future and subject us to the risk of government investigations and enforcement actions. For example, federal enforcement agencies recently have shown interest in pharmaceutical companies' product and patient assistance programs for private patients, including manufacturer reimbursement support services and relationships with specialty pharmacies. Some of these investigations have resulted in significant civil and criminal settlements.  Responding to a government investigation or enforcement action would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and growth prospects.. In connection with the commercial launch of EXONDYS 51, we have initiated our compliance program and are in the process of expanding our experienced compliance team that will continue to work towards developing a program based on industry best practices that is designed to ensure that our commercialization of EXONDYS 51 complies with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards. As this program has not yet been tested and the requirements in this area are constantly evolving, we cannot be certain that our program will eliminate all areas of potential exposure. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against such action, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, fraud and reporting laws may prove costly.. We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with our pre-clinical and clinical development programs. The inadequate performance by or loss of any of these service providers could affect our product candidate development.. Several third parties provide services in connection with our pre-clinical and clinical development programs, including in vitro and in vivo studies, assay and reagent development, immunohistochemistry, toxicology, pharmacokinetics, clinical assessments, data monitoring and management, statistical analysis and other outsourced activities. If these service providers do not adequately perform the services for which we have contracted or cease to continue operations and we are not able to quickly find a replacement provider or we lose information or items associated with our product candidates, our development programs may be delayed.. -42-. We are winding down our expired U.S. government contract, and thus further development of our Ebola and Marburg product candidates may be limited by our ability to obtain additional funding for these programs and by the intellectual property and other rights retained by the U.S. government.. We have historically relied on U.S. government contracts and awards to fund and support certain development programs. The July 2010 U.S. DoD contract providing funds for our Marburg program expired in July 2014, and the Ebola portion of the contract was previously terminated by the DoD in 2012 for convenience of the DoD. We are currently involved in contract wind-down activities and may be subject to additional government audits prior to collecting final cost reimbursements and fees owed by the government. If we are not able to complete such audits or other government requirements successfully, then the government may withhold some or all of the currently outstanding amounts owed to us. In addition, the U.S. government may have the right to develop all or some parts of product candidates that we have developed under a U.S. government contract after such contract has terminated or expired.. We may not be able to successfully conduct clinical trials due to various process-related factors which could negatively impact our business plans.. The successful start and completion of any of our clinical trials within time frames consistent with our business plans is dependent on regulatory authorities and various factors, which include, but are not limited to, our ability to:. •  recruit and retain employees, consultants or contractors with the required level of expertise;. •  recruit and retain sufficient patients needed to conduct a clinical trial;. •  enroll and retain participants, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the relevant population, the proximity of participants to clinical sites, activities of patient advocacy groups, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials, the availability of alternative or new treatments, side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy, personal issues and ease of participation;. •  timely and effectively contract with (under reasonable terms), manage and work with investigators, institutions, hospitals and the contract research organizations (\"CROs\") involved in the clinical trial;. •  negotiate contracts and other related documents with clinical trial parties and institutional review boards, such as informed consents, CRO agreements and site agreements, which can be subject to extensive negotiations that could cause significant delays in the clinical trial process, with terms possibly varying significantly among different trial sites and CROs and possibly subjecting the Company to various risks;. •  ensure adherence to trial designs and protocols agreed upon and approved by regulatory authorities and applicable legal and regulatory guidelines;. •  manage or resolve unforeseen adverse side effects during a clinical trial;. •  conduct the clinical trials in a cost-effective manner, including managing foreign currency risk in clinical trials conducted in foreign jurisdictions and cost increases due to unforeseen or unexpected complications such as enrollment delays, or needing to outsource certain Company functions during the clinical trial; and. •  execute clinical trial designs and protocols approved by regulatory authorities without deficiencies.. If we are not able to manage the clinical trial process successfully, our business plans could be delayed or be rendered unfeasible for us to execute within our planned or required time frames, or at all.. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and we may not achieve or sustain profitability.. We incurred an operating loss of $23.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017. Our accumulated deficit was $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2017. Although we launched EXONDYS 51 in the U.S. in September 2016, we believe that it will take us some time to attain profitability and positive cash flow from operations. We have generally incurred expenses related to research and development of our technologies and product candidates, from general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while building our business infrastructure. We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially if and/or as we:. •  continue our launch and commercialization of EXONDYS 51 in the U.S.;. •  expand the global footprint of EXONDYS 51 outside of the U.S.;. •  establish our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities;. -43-. •  continue our research, pre-clinical and clinical development of our product candidates;. •  respond to and satisfy requests and requirements from regulatory authorities in connection with development and potential approval of our product candidates;. •  initiate additional clinical trials for our product candidates;. •  seek marketing approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials;. •  acquire or in-license other product candidates;. •  maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio;. •  increase manufacturing capabilities including capital expenditures related to our real estate facilities and entering into manufacturing agreements;. •  hire additional clinical, quality control and scientific personnel; and. •  add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our product development and planned future commercialization efforts.. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant operating losses at least through 2018. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, or if, we will become profitable.. We will need additional funds to conduct our planned research, development, manufacturing and business development efforts. If we fail to attract and manage significant capital on acceptable terms or fail to enter into strategic relationships, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. We will likely require additional capital from time to time in the future in order to meet FDA post-marketing approval requirements and market and sell EXONDYS 51 as well as continue the development of product candidates in our pipeline, to expand our product portfolio and to continue or enhance our business development efforts. The actual amount of funds that we may need and the sufficiency of the capital we have or are able to raise will be determined by many factors, some of which are in our control and others that are beyond our control. The Company and our board of directors continue to assess optimization in the size and structure of the Company as well as in its strategic plans. For example, in March 2016, we announced a long-term plan to consolidate facilities within Massachusetts and closing our Corvallis, Oregon offices by end of that year. In June 2017, we announced the opening of our research and manufacturing center in Andover, Massachusetts. In addition, we recently established our European headquarters in Zug, Switzerland. Any failure on our part to strategically and successfully manage the funds we raise, with respect to factors within our control, could impact our ability to successfully commercialize EXONDYS 51 and continue developing our product candidates. Some of the factors partially or entirely outside of our control that could impact our ability to raise funds, as well as the sufficiency of funds the Company has to execute its business plans successfully, include the success of our research and development efforts, the status of our pre-clinical and clinical testing, costs and timing relating to securing regulatory approvals and obtaining patent rights, regulatory changes, competitive and technological developments in the market, regulatory decisions, and any commercialization expenses related to any product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution. An unforeseen change in these factors, or others, might increase our need for additional capital.. While we are currently well capitalized, we could seek additional financing from the sale and issuance of equity or equity-linked or debt securities in the future, and we cannot predict that financing will be available when and as we need financing or that, if available, the financing terms will be commercially reasonable. If we are unable to obtain additional financing when and if we require it, or on commercially reasonable terms, this would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If we are able to consummate such financings, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected and/or the terms of such financings may adversely affect the interests of our existing stockholders. To the extent we issue additional equity securities or convertible securities, our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution in their economic and voting rights. Additional financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. We could also be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or otherwise at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable and we may be required to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates, or otherwise agree to terms unfavorable to us, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects.. -44-. Further, we may also enter into relationships with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to perform research and development with respect to our technologies, research programs, conduct clinical trials or market our product candidates. Other than pre-clinical collaborations with academic or research institutions and government entities for the development of additional exon-skipping product candidates for the treatment of DMD, we currently do not have a strategic relationship with a third party to perform research or development using our technologies or assist us in funding the continued development and commercialization of any of our programs or product candidates. If we were to have such a strategic relationship, such third party may require us to issue equity to such third party, relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates, or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us.. Our indebtedness resulting from our Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement and new Revolving Credit Agreement and security agreement with MidCap could adversely affect our financial condition or restrict our future operations.. On July 18, 2017, we entered into (i) an the Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement with MidCap that provides a term loan of $60.0 million, (ii) the Revolving Credit Agreement that provides a revolving loan commitment of $40.0 million (which may be increased by an additional tranche of $20.0 million), (iii) an amendment to the pledge agreement related to the Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement and (iv) a pledge agreement related to the Revolving Credit Agreement.  Our agreements with MidCap create limitations on us, including:. •  requiring us to maintain pledge cash and certain other assets in favor of MidCap during the term of the agreements;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry;. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates;. •  limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy and other purposes; and. •  resulting in an acceleration of the maturity of such term loans upon the occurrence of a material adverse change or another default under the agreements with MidCap.. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The estimates and judgments we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements could prove inaccurate.. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Such estimates and judgments include revenue recognition, inventory, valuation of stock-based awards, research and development expenses and income tax. We base our estimates on historical experience, facts and circumstances known to us and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We cannot provide assurances, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will not change over time or otherwise prove inaccurate. If this is the case, we may be required to restate our consolidated financial statements, which could, in turn, subject us to securities class action litigation. Defending against such potential litigation relating to a restatement of our consolidated financial statements would be expensive and would require significant attention and resources of our management. Moreover, our insurance to cover our obligations with respect to the ultimate resolution of any such litigation may be inadequate. As a result of these factors, any such potential litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cause our stock price to decline, which could in turn subject us to securities class action litigation.. -45-. Comprehensive tax reform in the United States could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TJCA\") was enacted on December 22, 2017 in the United States. The TJCA contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the TJCA is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are still in the process of evaluating the TJCA and do not know the full effect it will have on our business, including our consolidated financial statements. The TJCA is complex and far-reaching and we cannot predict with certainty the impact its enactment will have on us. Moreover, that effect, whether adverse or favorable, may not become evident for some period of time. Further, we urge stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to the Tax Reform Act and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of future transactions involving our common stock.. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an ''ownership change'' is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses and certain other tax assets to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders' lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally three years. An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for taxable years including or following such \"ownership change.\" Limitations imposed on the ability to use net operating losses and tax credits to offset future taxable income could require us to pay U.S. federal income taxes earlier than we estimated or than would have otherwise been required if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such net operating losses and tax credits to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such net operating losses and tax credits and potentially adversely affecting our financial position. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.. If we fail to retain our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our future growth and our ability to compete would suffer.. We are highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management. Additionally, we have scientific personnel with significant and unique expertise in RNA-targeted therapeutics and related technologies. The loss of the services of any one of the principal members of our managerial team or staff may prevent us from achieving our business objectives.. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate such personnel. In order to develop and commercialize our products successfully, we will be required to retain key management and scientific employees. In certain instances, we may also need to expand or replace our workforce and our management ranks. In addition, we rely on certain consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in the formulation and advancement of our research and development programs. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by other entities or have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with third parties that limit their availability to us, or both. If we are unable to attract, assimilate or retain such key personnel, our ability to advance our programs would be adversely affected.. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, execute our business strategy and implement compliance controls and systems, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Any failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect investor confidence in our reported financial information.. We anticipate continued growth in our business operations due, in part, to the commercialization of EXONDYS 51. This future growth could create a strain on our organizational, administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our growth properly and maintain compliance with all applicable rules and regulations will require us to continue to improve our operational, legal, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to build or maintain the management and human resources and infrastructure necessary. -46-. to support the growth of our business. The time and resources required to implement systems and infrastructure that may be needed to support our growth is uncertain, and failure to complete implementation in a timely and efficient manner could adversely affect our operations.. We may engage in future acquisitions or collaborations with other entities that increase our capital requirements, dilute our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities and subject us to other risks.. We actively evaluate various strategic transactions on an ongoing basis, including licensing or acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses. Potential acquisitions or collaborations with other entities may entail numerous risks, including increased operating expenses and cash requirements, assimilation of operations and products, retention of key employees, diversion of our management's attention and uncertainties in our ability to maintain key business relationships of the acquired entities. In addition, if we undertake acquisitions, we may issue dilutive securities, assume or incur debt obligations, incur large one-time expenses and acquire intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense.. Our success, competitive position and future revenue depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technologies, product and product candidates, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties.. We currently hold various issued patents and exclusive rights to issued patents and own and have licenses to various patent applications, in each case in the U.S. as well as other countries. We anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the U.S. and in other countries. The patent process, however, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining and defending patents or in avoiding infringement of the rights of others. Even when our patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us or our collaborators. Even if our patents and patent applications do provide our product, product candidates and platform technology with a basis for exclusivity, we and our collaborators may not be able to develop or commercialize such product and product candidates or platform technology due to patent positions held by one or more third parties.. We may not be able to obtain and maintain patent protection for our product or product candidates necessary to prevent competitors from commercializing competing product candidates. Our patent rights might be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or otherwise not provide any competitive advantage, and we might not be successful in challenging the patent rights of our competitors through litigation or administrative proceedings. Additionally, in order to maintain or obtain freedom to operate for our products and product candidates, we may incur significant expenses, including those associated with entering into agreements with third parties that require milestone and royalty payments. For example, in July 2017, we and The University of Western Australia on the one hand, and the BioMarin Parties and AZL on the other hand, executed a Settlement Agreement pursuant to which all existing efforts pursuing ongoing litigation, opposition and other administrative proceedings would be stopped as between the Settlement Parties and the Settlement Parties would cooperate to withdraw the Actions before the European Patent Office (except for actions involving third parties), the United States Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\"), the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and the High Court of Justice of England and Wales, except for the cross-appeal of the Interlocutory Decision of the Opposition Division dated April 15, 2013 of the European Patent Office of EP 1619249B1 in which we withdrew our appeal and the BioMarin Parties and AZL will continue with its appeal, with us having the right to provide input on the appeal. Any adverse rulings on the appeal, or any of the Actions that continue irrespective of the settlement, could come at any time and, if negative, could adversely affect our business and result in a decline in our stock price. Defending our patent positions may continue to require significant financial resources and could negatively impact other Company objectives. In addition, the expected benefits and opportunities related to the Settlement Agreement and the License Agreement may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected due to challenges and uncertainties regarding the sales of EXONDYS 51, the research and development of future exon-skipping products, BioMarin's retained rights to convert the exclusive patent license under the Settlement Agreement to a co-exclusive license, BioMarin continuing certain oppositions and appeals, and patent oppositions that have been filed by other third parties, and patent oppositions and other patent challenges that may be filed by third parties in the future.. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date in the U.S. and tests used for determining the patentability of patent claims in all technologies are in flux. In addition, there is no. -47-. assurance as to the degree and range of protections any of our patents, if issued, may afford us or whether patents will be issued. Patents which may be issued to us may be subjected to further governmental review that may ultimately result in the reduction of their scope of protection, and pending patent applications may have their requested breadth of protection significantly limited before being issued, if issued at all. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences patent situation outside the U.S. can be even more uncertain.. The DMD patent landscape is continually evolving, and we may be able to assert that certain activities engaged in by third parties infringe on our current or future patent rights. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. As such, the patents and patent applications that we own or license and rely on for exclusivity for our product candidates may be challenged.  In the U.S., our patents may be challenged in an Inter Partes Review proceeding or other related proceeding.  In other countries, other procedures are available for a third party to challenge the validity of our patent rights.  For instance, we have rights to European Patent No. 2206781, which protects golodirsen. This patent was opposed at the European Patent Office. On December 19, 2017, the Opposition Division issued a Decision ordering the revocation of this patent.  We have appealed this Decision.  Other patents we have rights to from BioMarin are involved in third party opposition proceedings in Europe, as described above in the section \"Patents and Proprietary Rights.\"  In addition, a patent in Japan that we have rights to from BioMarin and protects golodirsen is in the preliminary stage of an opposition proceeding. These patents that we are defending in third party opposition proceedings, however, are not expected to be the sole basis for exclusivity for our product candidates, if at all, in view of their standard expiration dates.. As a matter of public policy, there might be significant pressure on governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection or impose compulsory licenses for disease treatments that prove successful. Additionally, jurisdictions other than the U.S. might have less restrictive patent laws than the U.S., giving foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop and market competing products. The USPTO and patent offices in other jurisdictions have often required that patent applications concerning pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology-related inventions be limited or narrowed substantially to cover only the specific innovations exemplified in the patent application, thereby limiting the scope of protection against competitive challenges. Accordingly, even if we or our licensors are able to obtain patents, the patents might be substantially narrower than anticipated.. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (the \"Leahy-Smith Act\"), was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law, including provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted, and may also affect patent litigation. The USPTO has issued regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, but many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act have only recently become effective. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For instance, a third party may petition the PTAB seeking to challenge the validity of some or all of the claims in any of our patents through an  Inter Partes Review  (\"IPR\") or other post-grant proceeding. Should the PTAB institute an IPR (or other) proceeding and decide that some or all of the claims in the challenged patent are invalid, such a decision, if upheld on appeal, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. The full impact of several recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions relating to patent law is not yet known. For example, on March 20, 2012, in  Mayo Collaborative Services, DBA Mayo Medical Laboratories, et al. v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc ., the Court held that several claims drawn to measuring drug metabolite levels from patient samples and correlating them to drug doses were not patentable subject matter. The decision appears to impact diagnostics patents that merely apply a law of nature via a series of routine steps and it has created uncertainty around the ability to patent certain biomarker-related method claims. Additionally, on June 13, 2013, in Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc., the Court held that claims to isolated genomic DNA are not patentable, but claims to complementary DNA molecules were held to be valid. The effect of the decision on patents for other isolated natural products is uncertain and, as with the Leahy-Smith Act, these decisions could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. -48-. Our business prospects will be impaired if third parties successfully assert that EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates or technologies infringe proprietary rights of such third parties.. Our competitors may make significant investments in competing technologies, and might have or obtain patents that limit, interfere with or eliminate our ability to make, use and sell EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates in important commercial markets.. If EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates or technologies infringe enforceable proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial costs and may have to:. •  obtain rights or licenses from others, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all;. •  abandon development of an infringing product candidate;. •  redesign EXONDYS 51, product candidates or processes to avoid infringement;. •  pay damages; and/or. •  defend litigation or administrative proceedings which might be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of financial and management resources.. Any of these events could substantially harm our potential earnings, financial condition and operations. The DMD patent landscape is continually evolving and multiple parties, including both commercial entities and academic institutions, may have rights to claims or may be pursuing additional claims that could provide these parties a basis to assert that EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates infringe on the intellectual property rights of such parties. Similarly, we may be able to assert that certain activities engaged in by these parties infringe on our current or future patent rights. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We also cannot be certain that other third parties will not assert patent infringement in the future with respect to any of our development programs.. We face intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in other companies discovering, developing or commercializing competitive products.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We are aware of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are actively engaged in research and development in areas related to antisense technology and other technologies, or that are developing alternative approaches to or therapeutics for the disease indications on which we are focused. Some of these competitors are developing or testing product candidates that now, or may in the future, compete directly with EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates. For example, we believe that companies including Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (formerly Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.), Roche Innovation Center Copenhagen (formerly Santaris Pharma A/S), Wave Life Sciences, Daiichi Sankyo and Nippon share a focus on RNA-targeted drug discovery and development. Competitors with respect to EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates include Nippon Shinyaku, Daiichi Sankyo, Wave, Solid Shire plc; and other companies such as PTC have also been working on DMD programs. Additionally, several companies and institutions have entered into collaborations or other agreements for the development of product candidates, including mRNA, gene (CRIPSR and AAV, among others) and small molecule therapies that are potential competitors for therapies being developed in the muscular dystrophy, neuromuscular and rare disease space, including, but not limited to, Biogen Inc., Ionis, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sanofi, Shire, Eli Lilly, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Moderna Therapeutics, Inc., Summit, Akashi, Catabasis, Capricor Therapeutics, Oxford University, Exonics Therapeutics, and Editas Medicine. Although BioMarin announced on May 31, 2016 its intent to discontinue clinical and regulatory development of drisapersen as well as its other clinical stage candidates, BMN 044, BMN 045 and BMN 053, then-currently in Phase 2 studies for distinct forms of DMD, it further announced its intent to continue to explore the development of next generation oligonucleotides for the treatment of DMD.. If any of our competitors are successful in obtaining regulatory approval for any of their product candidates, it may limit our ability to gain or keep market share in the DMD space or other diseases targeted by our exon-skipping platform and product candidate pipeline.. -49-. It is possible that our competitors will succeed in developing technologies that limit the market size for EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates, impact the regulatory approval process for our product candidates that are more effective than our product candidates or that would render our technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may, among other things:. •  develop safer or more effective products;. •  implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing;. •  develop less costly products;. •  obtain regulatory approval more quickly;. •  have access to more manufacturing capacity;. •  develop products that are more convenient and easier to administer;. •  form more advantageous strategic alliances; or. •  establish superior intellectual property positions.. We may be subject to product liability claims and our insurance may not be adequate to cover damages.. The current and future use of our product candidates by us and our collaborators in clinical trials, expanded access programs, the sale of EXONDYS 51 and future products, or the use of our products under emergency use vehicles may expose us to liability claims inherent to the manufacture, clinical testing, marketing and sale of medical products. These claims might be made directly by consumers or healthcare providers or indirectly by pharmaceutical companies, our collaborators or others selling such products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, we may experience financial losses in the future due to such product liability claims. We have obtained limited general commercial liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products in connection with the FDA's approval of EXONDYS 51. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against all losses. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired.. Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws, which can be expensive, and may affect our business and operating results.. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including organic and inorganic solvents and reagents. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, manufacturing, exposure to and disposal of these hazardous materials. In addition, we are subject to environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of bio-hazardous materials. Although we believe that our activities conform in all material respects with such environmental laws, there can be no assurance that violations of these laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. Liability under environmental, health and safety laws can be joint and several and without regard to fault or negligence. The failure to comply with past, present or future laws could result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties, remediation costs, property damage and personal injury claims, loss of permits or a cessation of operations, and any of these events could harm our business and financial condition. We expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental, health and workplace safety laws on an ongoing basis, and although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws, they may impose greater compliance costs or result in increased risks or penalties, which could harm our business.. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cyber security incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of EXONDYS 51 patients, clinical trial participants and employees. Similarly, our third party providers possess certain of our sensitive data. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information. -50-. stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information, including our data being breached at third party providers, could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business.. We may incur substantial costs in connection with litigation and other disputes.. In the ordinary course of business we may, and in some cases have, become involved in lawsuits and other disputes such as securities claims, intellectual property challenges, including interferences declared by the USPTO, and employee matters. It is possible that we may not prevail in claims made against us in such disputes even after expending significant amounts of money and company resources in defending our positions in such lawsuits and disputes. The outcome of such lawsuits and disputes is inherently uncertain and may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price is volatile and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control.. The market prices for and trading volumes of securities of biotechnology companies, including our securities, has historically been volatile. Our stock has had significant swings in trading prices, in particular in connection with our public communications regarding feedback received from regulatory authorities. For example, over the last twenty four months, our stock has increased as much as 74% in a single day or decreased as much as 55% in a single day. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to:. •  the commercial performance of EXONDYS 51 in the U.S.;. •  the timing of our submissions to regulatory authorities and regulatory decisions and developments;. •  positive or negative clinical trial results or regulatory interpretations of data collected in clinical trials conducted by us, our strategic partners, our competitors or other companies with investigational drugs targeting the same, similar or related diseases to those targeted by us;. •  delays in beginning and completing pre-clinical and clinical trials for potential product candidates;. •  delays in entering or failing to enter into strategic relationships with respect to development and/or commercialization of EXONDYS 51 or our product candidates or entry into strategic relationships on terms that are not deemed to be favorable to our Company;. •  technological innovations, product development or additional commercial product introductions by ourselves or competitors;. •  changes in applicable government regulations or regulatory requirements in the approval process;. •  developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and patent litigation matters, such as developments in the interferences declared by the USPTO, including in the near term any outcomes of ongoing interference proceedings and over the longer term the outcomes from any related appeals;. •  public concern relating to the commercial value, efficacy or safety of any of our products;. •  our ability to obtain funds, through the issuance of equity or equity linked securities or incurrence of debt, or other corporate transactions;. •  comments by securities analysts;. •  developments in litigation such as the stockholder lawsuits against us;. •  changes in senior management; or. •  general market conditions in our industry or in the economy as a whole.. -51-. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of a company's stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law might deter acquisition bids for us that might be considered favorable and prevent or frustrate any attempt to replace or remove the then-current management and board of directors.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our board of directors and management. These provisions include:. •  when the board is comprised of six or more directors, classification of our board of directors into two classes, with one class elected each year;. •  directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of voting stock;. •  prohibition of cumulative voting of shares in the election of directors;. •  right of the board of directors to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, disqualification or removal of a director;. •  express authorization of the board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws;. •  prohibition on stockholder action by written consent;. •  advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. •  the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms and rights of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, including rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; and. •  a super-majority (66 2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of capital stock are required to amend, rescind, alter or repeal our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors.. Our revenues and operating results could fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our stock price.. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter as well as in comparison to the corresponding quarter of the preceding year. Variations my result from one or more factors, including, without limitation:. •  timing of purchase orders;. •  changes in coverage and reimbursement policies of health plans and other health insurers, especially in relation to those products that are currently manufactured, under development or identified for future development by us;. •  re-authorizations processes that may be required for patients who initially obtained coverage by third parties, including government payors, managed care organizations and private health insurers;. •  transition from temporary billing codes established by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to permanent medical codes;. -52-. •  timing of approval of applications filed with the FDA;. •  timing of product launches and market acceptance of products launched;. •  changes in the amounts spent to research, develop, acquire, license or promote new and existing products;. •  results of clinical trial programs;. •  serious or unexpected health or safety concerns with our product or product candidates;. •  introduction of new products by others that render our product obsolete or noncompetitive;. •  the ability to maintain selling prices and gross margin on our product;. •  increases in the cost of raw materials contained within our product;. •  manufacturing and supply interruptions, including product rejections or recalls due to failure to comply with manufacturing specifications;. •  timing of revenue recognition relating to our distribution agreements;. •  the ability to protect our intellectual property from being acquired by other entities;. •  the ability to avoid infringing the intellectual property of others; and. •  the addition or loss of customers.. In addition, in one or more future periods, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline.. A significant number of shares of our common stock are issuable pursuant to outstanding stock awards, and we expect to issue additional stock awards and shares of common stock in the future. Exercise of these awards and sales of shares will dilute the interests of existing security holders and may depress the price of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 64.8 million shares of common stock outstanding and outstanding awards to purchase 9.4 million shares of common stock under various incentive stock plans. Additionally, as of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 2.3 million shares of common stock available for future issuance under our Amended and Restated 2011 Equity Incentive Plan, approximately 0.2 million shares of common stock available for issuance under our 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and approximately 0.6 million shares of common stock available for issuance under our 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan. We may issue additional common stock and warrants from time to time to finance our operations. We may also issue additional shares to fund potential acquisitions or in connection with additional stock options or other equity awards granted to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our Amended and Restated 2011 Equity Incentive Plan, our 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan or our 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or warrants to purchase common stock and the perception that such issuances may occur or exercise of outstanding warrants or options may have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock.. Risks Related to Our Convertible Senior Notes. Servicing our 1.50% notes due 2024 (the \"Notes\") requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow to pay our debt.. In 2017, we issued $570 million aggregate principal amount of Notes. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to many factors, including, economic, financial, competitive and other, beyond our control. We do not expect our business to be able to generate cash flow from operations, in the foreseeable future, sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures and may therefore be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our Notes, which are non-callable and mature in 2024, will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations, and limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business.. -53-. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repurchase the Notes as required upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to repurchase the Notes.. Holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. A fundamental change may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the fundamental change repurchase price in cash with respect to any Notes surrendered by holders for repurchase upon a fundamental change. In addition, restrictions under our then existing credit facilities or other indebtedness, if any, may not allow us to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change. Our failure to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change when required would result in an event of default with respect to the Notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes.. Capped call transactions entered into in connection with our Notes may impact the value of our common stock.. In connection with the Notes, we entered into capped call transactions (the \"capped call transactions\") with certain financial institutions. The capped call transactions are expected to generally reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock.. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the capped call transactions, these financial institutions or their respective affiliates entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or to purchase our common stock. The financial institutions, or their respective affiliates, may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Notes. This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Notes, which could affect the value of our common stock."
