[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS. Carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. If any of the events or developments described below were actually to occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. In this section, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms \"Company,\" \"we,\" \"us\" and \"our\" refer to Saul Centers, Inc., and its subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership.. Financial and economic conditions may have an adverse impact on us, our tenants' businesses and our results of operations.. Our business may be affected by market and economic challenges experienced by the U.S. economy or real estate industry as a whole, by the local economic conditions in the markets in which our properties are located, including the impact of high unemployment, volatility in the public equity and debt markets, and international economic conditions. A prolonged deterioration of economic and other market conditions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or real estate values, as well as the financial condition of our tenants and lenders, which may expose us to increased risks of default by these parties.. Potential consequences of a prolonged deterioration of economic and other market conditions include:. • the financial condition of our tenants, many of which operate in the retail industry, may be adversely affected, which may result in tenant defaults under their leases due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failures or for other reasons;. • the ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and. 14. Table of Contents. refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense;. • reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices and may reduce the ability to refinance loans; and. • one or more lenders under our credit facility could fail and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all.. Revenue from our properties may be reduced or limited if the retail operations of our tenants are not successful.. Adverse changes in consumer spending or consumer preferences for particular goods, services or store based retailing could severely impact our tenants' ability to pay rent.  Revenue from our properties depends primarily on the ability of our tenants to pay the full amount of rent due under their leases on a timely basis. The amount of rent we receive from our tenants generally will depend in part on the success of our tenants' retail operations, making us vulnerable to general economic downturns and other conditions affecting the retail industry. Some tenants may terminate their occupancy due to an inability to operate profitably for an extended period of time, impacting the Company's ability to maintain occupancy levels.. Any reduction in our tenants' ability to pay base rent or percentage rent may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Small business tenants and anchor retailers which lease space in the Company's properties may experience a deterioration in their sales or other revenue, or experience a constraint on the availability of credit necessary to fund operations, which in turn may adversely impact those tenants' ability to pay contractual base rents and operating expense recoveries. Some of our leases provide for the payment, in addition to base rent, of additional rent above the base amount according to a specified percentage of the gross sales generated by the tenants. Decreasing sales revenue by retail tenants could adversely impact the Company's receipt of percentage rents required to be paid by tenants under certain leases.. Our ability to increase our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our shopping center \"anchor\" tenants and other significant tenants.. Our net income could be adversely affected in the event of a downturn in the business, or the bankruptcy or insolvency, of any anchor store or anchor tenant. Our largest shopping center anchor tenant is Giant Food, which accounted for 4.7% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. The closing of one or more anchor stores prior to the expiration of the lease of that store or the termination of a lease by one or more of a property's anchor tenants could adversely affect that property and result in lease terminations by, or reductions in rent from, other tenants whose leases may permit termination or rent reduction in those circumstances or whose own operations may suffer as a result. This could reduce our net income.. We may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or leasing vacant space.. We derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, the space and other vacant space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than previous lease terms. Constraints on the availability of credit to office and retail tenants, necessary to purchase and install improvements, fixtures and equipment, and fund start-up business expenses, could impact the Company's ability to procure new tenants for spaces currently vacant in existing operating properties or properties under development. As a result, our results of operations and our net income could be reduced.. 15. Table of Contents. We have substantial relationships with members of the Saul Organization whose interests could conflict with the interests of other stockholders.. Influence of Officers, Directors and Significant Stockholders.. Three of our executive officers, Mr. B. F. Saul II, our President and Chief Operating Officer, J. Page Lansdale, and our Executive Vice President-Chief Legal and Administrative Officer, Christine Nicolaides Kearns, are members of the Saul Organization, and persons associated with the Saul Organization constitute five of the. 11 members of our Board of Directors. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, Mr. B. F. Saul II had the potential to exercise control over 9,481,682 shares of our common stock representing 43.2% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Mr. B. F. Saul II also beneficially owned, as of December 31, 2017, 7,541,867 units of the Operating Partnership.  In general, these units are convertible into shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis.  The ownership limitation set forth in our articles of incorporation is 39.9% in value of our issued and outstanding equity securities (which includes both common and preferred stock).  As of December 31, 2017,. Mr. B. F. Saul II and members of the Saul Organization owned common stock representing approximately 38.1% in value of all our issued and outstanding equity securities. Members of the Saul Organization are permitted under our articles of incorporation to convert Operating Partnership units into shares of common stock or acquire additional shares of common stock until the Saul Organization's actual ownership of common stock reaches 39.9% in value of our equity securities. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 740,000 of the 7,541,867 units of the Operating Partnership would have been permitted to convert into additional shares of common stock, and would have resulted in Mr. B. F. Saul II and members of the Saul Organization owning common stock representing approximately 39.9% in value of all our issued and outstanding equity securities.. As a result of these relationships, members of the Saul Organization will be in a position to exercise significant influence over our affairs, which influence might not be consistent with the interests of some, or a majority, of our stockholders. Except as discussed below, we do not have any written policies or procedures for the review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons.. Management Time.. Our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President-Chief Legal and Administrative Officer and Senior Vice President-Chief Accounting Officer are also officers of various entities of the Saul Organization. Although we believe that these officers spend sufficient management time to meet their responsibilities as our officers, the amount of management time devoted to us will depend on our specific circumstances at any given point in time. As a result, in a given period, these officers may spend less than a majority of their management time on our matters. Over extended periods of time, we believe that our Chief Executive Officer will spend less than a majority of his management time on Company matters, while our President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President-Chief Legal and Administrative Officer and Senior Vice President-Chief Accounting Officer may or may not spend less than a majority of their time on our matters.. Exclusivity and Right of First Refusal Agreements.. We will acquire, develop, own and manage shopping center properties and will own and manage other commercial properties, and, subject to certain exclusivity agreements and rights of first refusal to which we are a party, the Saul Organization will continue to develop, acquire, own and manage commercial properties and own land suitable for development as, among other things, shopping centers and other commercial properties.  Therefore, conflicts could develop in the allocation of acquisition and development opportunities with respect to commercial properties other than shopping centers and with respect to development sites, as well as potential tenants and other matters, between us and the Saul Organization.  The agreement relating to exclusivity and the right of first refusal between us and the Saul Organization generally requires the Saul Organization to conduct its shopping center business exclusively through us and to grant us a right of first refusal to purchase commercial properties and development sites in certain market areas that become available to the Saul Organization. The Saul Organization has granted the right of first refusal to us, acting through our independent directors, in order to minimize potential conflicts with respect to commercial properties and development sites.  We and the Saul Organization have entered. 16. Table of Contents. into this agreement in order to minimize conflicts with respect to shopping centers and certain of our commercial properties.. We own real estate assets in the Twinbrook area of Rockville, Maryland, which are adjacent to real estate assets owned by the B. F. Saul Real Estate Investment Trust (the \"Trust\"), a member of the Saul Organization.  We have entered into an agreement with the Saul Trust, which originally expired on December 31, 2015, and which was extended to December 31, 2016, to share, on a pro rata basis, third-party predevelopment costs related to the planning of the future development of the adjacent sites.  On December 8, 2016, we entered into a replacement agreement with the Saul Trust which extended the expiration date to December 31, 2017 and provides for automatic twelve month renewals unless either party provides notice of termination.  Conflicts with respect to payments and allocations of costs may arise under the agreement.. Shared Services.. We share with the Saul Organization certain ancillary functions, such as computer and payroll services, benefits administration and in-house legal services.  The terms of all sharing arrangements, including payments related thereto, are reviewed periodically by our Audit Committee, which is comprised solely of independent directors.  Included in our general and administrative expenses or capitalized to specific development projects, for the year ended December 31, 2017, are charges totaling $8.1 million, related to such shared services, which included rental payments for the Company's headquarters lease, which were billed by the Saul Organization. Although we believe that the amounts allocated to us for such shared services represent a fair allocation between us and the Saul Organization, we have not obtained a third party appraisal of the value of these services.. The B. F. Saul Insurance Agency of Maryland, Inc., a subsidiary of the B. F. Saul Company and a member of the Saul Organization, is a general insurance agency that receives commissions and counter-signature fees in connection with our insurance program. Such commissions and fees amounted to approximately $288,400 for the year ended December 31, 2017.. Related Party Rents.. We sublease space for our corporate headquarters from a member of the Saul Organization, the building of which is owned by another member of the Saul Organization.  The lease commenced in March 2002 and expires in February 2022.  The Company and the Saul Organization entered into a Shared Services Agreement whereby each party pays a portion of the total rental payments based on a percentage proportionate to the number of employees employed by each party. The Company's rent expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $774,700.  Although the Company believes that this lease has terms comparable to what would have been obtained from a third party landlord, it did not seek bid proposals from any independent third parties when entering into its new corporate headquarters lease.. Conflicts Based on Individual Tax Considerations.. The tax basis of members of the Saul Organization in our portfolio properties which were contributed to certain partnerships at the time of our initial public offering in 1993 was substantially less than the fair market value thereof at the time of their contribution. In the event of our disposition of such properties, a disproportionately large share of the gain for federal income tax purposes would be allocated to members of the Saul Organization. In addition, future reductions of the level of our debt, or future releases of the guarantees or indemnities with respect thereto by members of the Saul Organization, would cause members of the Saul Organization to be considered, for federal income tax purposes, to have received constructive distributions. Depending on the overall level of debt and other factors, these distributions could be in excess of the Saul Organization's bases in their Partnership units, in which case such excess constructive distributions would be taxable.. Consequently, it is in the interests of the Saul Organization that we continue to hold the contributed portfolio properties, that a portion of our debt remains outstanding or is refinanced and that the Saul Organization guarantees and indemnities remain in place, in order to defer the taxable gain to members of the Saul Organization. Therefore, the Saul Organization may seek to cause us to retain the contributed portfolio properties, and to refrain from reducing our debt or releasing the Saul Organization guarantees and indemnities, even when such action may. 17. Table of Contents. not be in the interests of some, or a majority, of our stockholders. In order to minimize these conflicts, decisions as to sales of the portfolio properties, or any refinancing, repayment or release of guarantees and indemnities with respect to our debt, will be made by the independent directors.. Ability to Block Certain Actions.. Under applicable law and the limited partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, consent of the limited partners is required to permit certain actions, including the sale of all or substantially all of the Operating Partnership's assets. Therefore, members of the Saul Organization, through their status as limited partners in the Operating Partnership, could prevent the taking of any such actions, even if they were in the interests of some, or a majority, of our stockholders.. The amount of debt we have and the restrictions imposed by that debt could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $965.5 million of debt outstanding, $890.4 million of which was long-term fixed-rate debt secured by 37 of our properties and $75.1 million of which was variable-rate debt due under one secured bank loan and our revolving credit facility.. We currently have a general policy of limiting our borrowings to 50 percent of asset value, i.e., the value of our portfolio, as determined by our Board of Directors by reference to the aggregate annualized cash flow from our portfolio. Our organizational documents contain no limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness which we may incur. Therefore, the Board of Directors could alter or eliminate the current limitation on borrowing at any time. If our debt capitalization policy were changed, we could increase our leverage, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our operating cash flow and our ability to make expected distributions to stockholders, and in an increased risk of default on our obligations.. We have established our debt capitalization policy relative to asset value, which is computed by reference to the aggregate annualized cash flow from the properties in our portfolio rather than relative to book value. We have used a measure tied to cash flow because we believe that the book value of our portfolio properties, which is the depreciated historical cost of the properties, does not accurately reflect our ability to borrow. Asset value, however, is somewhat more variable than book value, and may not at all times reflect the fair market value of the underlying properties.. The amount of our debt outstanding from time to time could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could:. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, property acquisitions and other appropriate business opportunities that may arise in the future;. • limit our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes;. • make it difficult to satisfy our debt service requirements;. • limit our ability to make distributions on our outstanding common and preferred stock;. • require us to dedicate increased amounts of our cash flow from operations to payments on our variable rate, unhedged debt if interest rates rise;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the factors that affect the profitability of our business, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms; and. • limit our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes.. 18. Table of Contents. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors described in this section. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from our business in the future to service our debt or meet our other cash needs, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, sell assets or obtain additional financing to meet our debt obligations and other cash needs. Our ability to refinance, sell assets or obtain additional financing may not be possible on terms that we would find acceptable.. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply could result in defaults that accelerate the payment under our debt.. Our secured debt generally contains customary covenants, including, among others, provisions:. • relating to the maintenance of the property securing the debt;. • restricting our ability to assign or further encumber the properties securing the debt; and. • restricting our ability to enter into certain new leases or to amend or modify certain existing leases without obtaining consent of the lenders.. Our unsecured debt generally contains various restrictive covenants. The covenants in our unsecured debt include, among others, provisions restricting our ability to:. • incur additional unsecured debt;. • guarantee additional debt;. • make certain distributions, investments and other restricted payments, including distribution payments on our outstanding stock;. • create certain liens;. • increase our overall secured and unsecured borrowing beyond certain levels; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. Our ability to meet some of the covenants in our debt, including covenants related to the condition of the property or payment of real estate taxes, may be dependent on the performance by our tenants under their leases.. In addition, our line of credit requires us and our subsidiaries to satisfy financial covenants. The material financial covenants require us, on a consolidated basis, to:. • maintain tangible net worth, as defined in the loan agreement, of at least $542.1 million plus 80% of the Company's net equity proceeds received after March 2014;. • limit the amount of debt as a percentage of gross asset value, as defined in the loan agreement, to less than 60% (leverage ratio);. • limit the amount of debt so that interest coverage will exceed 2.0x on a trailing four-quarter basis (interest expense coverage); and. • limit the amount of debt so that interest, scheduled principal amortization and preferred dividend coverage exceeds 1.3x on a trailing four-quarter basis (fixed charge coverage).. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all such covenants. If we were to breach any of our debt covenants and did not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, and, if the debt is secured, could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of the property securing the loan. Some of our debt arrangements are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a covenant under certain of our other debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations and the market value of our shares.. 19. Table of Contents. Our development activities are inherently risky.. The ground-up development of improvements on real property, which is different from the renovation and redevelopment of existing improvements, presents substantial risks. In addition to the risks associated with real estate investment in general as described elsewhere, the risks associated with our remaining development activities include:. • significant time lag between commencement and completion subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuation in the general economy;. • failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms;. • expenditure of money and time on projects that may never be completed;. • inability to achieve projected rental rates or anticipated pace of lease-up;. • higher-than-estimated construction costs, including labor and material costs; and. • possible delay in completion of the project because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or acts of God (such as fires, earthquakes or floods).. Redevelopments and acquisitions may fail to perform as expected.. Our investment strategy includes the redevelopment and acquisition of community and neighborhood shopping centers that are anchored by supermarkets, drugstores or high volume, value-oriented retailers that provide consumer necessities. The redevelopment and acquisition of properties entails risks that include the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations:. • our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, and, as a result, the property may fail to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer time;. • we may not be able to identify suitable properties to acquire or may be unable to complete the acquisition of the properties we identify;. • we may not be able to integrate new developments or acquisitions into our existing operations successfully;. • properties we redevelop or acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project at the time we make the decision to invest, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected;. • our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs; and. • our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost.. Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital.. Our growth strategy includes the redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition of additional properties. Because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for federal income tax purposes, in addition to our undistributed operating cash flow, we rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund our growth, which financing may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. The debt could include mortgage loans from third parties or the sale of debt securities. Equity capital could include our common stock or preferred stock. Additional financing, refinancing or other capital may not be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital depends on a number of factors, including the general state of the capital markets, the market's perception of our growth potential, our ability to pay dividends, and our current and potential future earnings. Depending on the outcome of these factors, we could experience delay or difficulty in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or be unable to implement this strategy.. 20. Table of Contents. Our performance and value are subject to general risks associated with the real estate industry.. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and, consequently, the value of our investments, are subject to the risk that if our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected. As a real estate company, we are susceptible to the following real estate industry risks:. • economic downturns in the areas where our properties are located;. • adverse changes in local real estate market conditions, such as oversupply or reduction in demand;. • changes in tenant preferences that reduce the attractiveness of our properties to tenants;. • zoning or regulatory restrictions;. • decreases in market rental rates;. • weather conditions that may increase energy costs and other operating expenses;. • costs associated with the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; and. • increases in the cost of adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, associated with one or more properties, which may occur even when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in revenue from one or more properties, although real estate taxes typically do not increase upon a reduction in such revenue.. Geographic concentration of our portfolio may make us particularly susceptible to adverse economic developments in the real estate markets of those areas.. Approximately 85% of our property operating income is generated by properties in the metropolitan Washington, DC/Baltimore area.  As a result, our financial condition, operating results and ability to make distributions could be materially and adversely impacted by significant adverse economic changes affecting the real estate markets in that area.  In turn, our common stock is subject to greater risk vis-a-vis other enterprises whose portfolio contains greater geographic diversity.. Adverse trends in the retail and office real estate sectors.. Tenants at our retail properties face continual competition in attracting customers from Internet shopping, retailers at other shopping centers, catalogue companies, online merchants, television shopping networks, warehouse stores, large discounters, outlet malls, wholesale clubs, direct mail and telemarketers.  Such competition could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space in our retail properties and on the rents we can charge or the concessions we can grant.  This in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows, and could affect the realizable value of our assets upon sale.  Further, as new technologies emerge, the relationships among customers, retailers, and shopping centers are evolving rapidly and it is critical we adapt to such new technologies and relationships on a timely basis.  We may be unable to adapt quickly and effectively, which could adversely impact our financial performance.. Some businesses are rapidly evolving to make employee telecommuting, flexible work schedules, open workplaces and teleconferencing increasingly common.  These practices enable businesses to reduce their space requirements.  A continuation of the movement towards these practices could over time erode the overall demand for office space and, in turn, place downward pressure on occupancy, rental rates and property valuations, each of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases.. Our financial results depend primarily on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction. 21. Table of Contents. in income from the investment. As a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to rent our properties on favorable terms. Under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays, and may incur substantial legal costs. Additionally, new properties that we may acquire or develop may not produce any significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property until the property is fully leased.. Competition may limit our ability to purchase new properties and generate sufficient income from tenants.. Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us in seeking tenants for properties and properties for acquisition. This competition may:. • reduce properties available for acquisition;. • increase the cost of properties available for acquisition;. • reduce rents payable to us;. • interfere with our ability to attract and retain tenants;. • lead to increased vacancy rates at our properties; and. • adversely affect our ability to minimize expenses of operation.. Retailers at our shopping center properties also face increasing competition from outlet stores, discount shopping clubs, and other forms of marketing of goods, such as direct mail, internet marketing and telemarketing. This competition may reduce percentage rents payable to us and may contribute to lease defaults and insolvency of tenants. If we are unable to continue to attract appropriate retail tenants to our properties, or to purchase new properties in our geographic markets, it could materially affect our ability to generate net income, service our debt and make distributions to our stockholders.. We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid.. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, there are some limitations under federal income tax laws applicable to real estate and to REITs in particular that may limit our ability to sell our assets. We may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stockholders.. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate.. We carry comprehensive insurance on all of our properties, including insurance for liability, earthquake, fire, flood, terrorism and rental loss. These policies contain coverage limitations. We believe this coverage is of the type and amount customarily obtained for or by an owner of real property assets. We intend to obtain similar insurance coverage on subsequently acquired properties.. As a consequence of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and other significant losses incurred by the insurance industry, the availability of insurance coverage has decreased and the prices for insurance have increased. As a result, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts and toxic mold, or, if offered, the expense of obtaining these types of insurance may not be justified. We therefore may cease to have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the limits of insurance available. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, but still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Material losses in excess of insurance proceeds may occur in the future. Also, due to inflation, changes in codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, it may not be feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a building after it has been damaged or destroyed. Events such as these could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations, including distributions to our stockholders.. 22. Table of Contents. Environmental laws and regulations could reduce the value or profitability of our properties.. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to hazardous materials, environmental protection and human health and safety. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we and our tenants may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances released on or in properties we own or operate, and also may be required to pay other costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances. This liability may be imposed without regard to whether we or our tenants knew about the release of these types of substances or were responsible for their release. The presence of contamination or the failure to properly remediate contamination at any of our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease those properties or to borrow using those properties as collateral. The costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate. We are not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of our properties that management believes would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations taken as a whole. The uses of any of our properties prior to our acquisition of the property and the building materials used at the property are among the property-specific factors that will affect how the environmental laws are applied to our properties. If we are subject to any material environmental liabilities, the liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations.. We cannot predict what other environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist on the properties in the future. Compliance with existing and new laws and regulations may require us or our tenants to spend funds to remedy environmental problems. Our tenants, like many of their competitors, have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs associated with complying with these laws and regulations, which will adversely affect their potential profitability. Generally, our tenants must comply with environmental laws and meet remediation requirements. Our leases typically impose obligations on our tenants to indemnify us from any compliance costs we may incur as a result of the environmental conditions on the property caused by the tenant. If a tenant fails to or cannot comply, we could be forced to pay these costs. If not addressed, environmental conditions could impair our ability to sell or re-lease the affected properties in the future or result in lower sales prices or rent payments.. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the \"ADA\") could require us to take remedial steps with respect to newly acquired properties.. The properties, as commercial facilities, are required to comply with Title III of the ADA. Investigation of a property may reveal non-compliance with the ADA. The requirements of the ADA, or of other federal, state or local laws, also may change in the future and restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to access for disabled persons. Future compliance with the ADA may require expensive changes to the properties.. The revenue generated by our tenants could be negatively affected by various federal, state and local laws to which they are subject.. We and our tenants are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, consumer protection laws and state and local fire, life-safety and similar requirements that affect the use of the properties.  The leases typically require that each tenant comply with all regulations.  Failure to comply could result in fines by governmental authorities, awards of damages to private litigants, or restrictions on the ability to conduct business on such properties.  Non-compliance of this sort could reduce our revenue from a tenant, could require us to pay penalties or fines relating to any non-compliance, and could adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a property.. Failure to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of distributions.. We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT, and currently intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code.  However, the IRS could successfully assert that we are not qualified as such. In addition, we may not remain qualified as a REIT in the future. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions. The. 23. Table of Contents. complexity of these provisions and of the applicable income tax regulations that have been issued under the Code by the United States Department of Treasury is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets in partnership form. Certain facts and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying rents and other income. Satisfying this requirement could be difficult, for example, if defaults by tenants were to reduce the amount of income from qualifying rents. Also, we must make annual distributions to stockholders of at least 90% of our net taxable income (excluding capital gains). In addition, new legislation, new regulations, new administrative interpretations or new court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we fail to qualify as a REIT:. • we would not be allowed a deduction for dividend distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income;. • we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;. • we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax;. • unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified;. • we could be required to pay significant income taxes, which would substantially reduce the funds available for investment and for distribution to our stockholders for each year in which we failed to qualify; and. • we would no longer be required by law to make any distributions to our stockholders.. We believe that the Operating Partnership is treated as a partnership, and not as a corporation, for federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to challenge successfully the status of the Operating Partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes:. • the Operating Partnership would be taxed as a corporation;. • we would cease to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes; and. • the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be substantially reduced.. We may be required to incur additional debt to qualify as a REIT.. As a REIT, we must make annual distributions to stockholders of at least 90% of our REIT taxable income. We are subject to income tax on amounts of undistributed REIT taxable income and net capital gain. In addition, we would be subject to a 4% excise tax if we fail to distribute sufficient income to meet a minimum distribution test based on our ordinary income, capital gain and aggregate undistributed income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to stockholders to comply with the Code's distribution provisions and to avoid federal income and excise tax. We may need to borrow funds to meet our distribution requirements because:. • our income may not be matched by our related expenses at the time the income is considered received for purposes of determining taxable income; and. • non-deductible capital expenditures or debt service requirements may reduce available cash but not taxable income.. In these circumstances, we might have to borrow funds on unfavorable terms and even if our management believes the market conditions make borrowing financially unattractive.. U.S. federal tax reform legislation now and in the future could affect REITs, both positively and negatively, in ways that are difficult to anticipate.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"2017 Tax Act\"), signed into law on December 22, 2017, represents sweeping tax reform legislation that makes significant changes to corporate and individual tax rates and the calculation of taxes.  While we currently do not expect the 2017 Tax Act will have a significant direct impact on us, it may impact us indirectly as our tenants and the jurisdictions in which we do business, as well as the overall investment thesis for REITs, may be impacted both positively and negatively in ways that are difficult to predict. Additionally, the overall impact of the 2017 Tax Act depends on future interpretations and regulations that may be. 24. Table of Contents. issued by federal tax authorities, as well as changes in state and local taxation in response to the 2017 Tax Act, and it is possible that such future interpretations, regulations and other changes could adversely impact us.. The structure of our leases may jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT.. If the IRS were to challenge successfully the characterization of one or more of our leases of properties as leases for federal income tax purposes, the Operating Partnership would not be treated as the owner of the related property or properties for federal income tax purposes. As a result, the Operating Partnership would lose tax depreciation and cost recovery deductions with respect to one or more of our properties, which in turn could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Although we will use our best efforts to structure any leasing transaction for properties acquired in the future so the lease will be characterized as a lease and the Operating Partnership will be treated as the owner of the property for federal income tax purposes, we will not seek an advance ruling from the IRS and do not intend to seek an opinion of counsel that the Operating Partnership will be treated as the owner of any leased properties for federal income tax purposes. Thus, the IRS could successfully assert that future leases will not be treated as leases for federal income tax purposes, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. To maintain our status as a REIT, we limit the amount of shares any one stockholder can own.. The Code imposes certain limitations on the ownership of the stock of a REIT. For example, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code). To protect our REIT status, our articles of incorporation restrict beneficial and constructive ownership (defined by reference to various Code provisions) to no more than 2.5% in value of our issued and outstanding equity securities by any single stockholder with the exception of members of the Saul Organization, who are restricted to beneficial and constructive ownership of no more than 39.9% in value of our issued and outstanding equity securities.. The constructive ownership rules are complex. Shares of our capital stock owned, actually or constructively, by a group of related individuals and/or entities may be treated as constructively owned by one of those individuals or entities. As a result, the acquisition of less than 2.5% or 39.9% in value of our issued and outstanding equity securities, by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity (or another) to own constructively more than 2.5% or 39.9% in value of the outstanding stock. If that happened, either the transfer or ownership would be void or the shares would be transferred to a charitable trust and then sold to someone who can own those shares without violating the respective ownership limit.. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. B. F. Saul II and members of the Saul Organization owned common stock representing approximately 38.1% in value of all our issued and outstanding equity securities. In addition, members of the Saul Organization beneficially owned Operating Partnership units that are, in general, convertible into our common stock on a one-for-one basis. Members of the Saul Organization are permitted under our articles of incorporation to convert Operating Partnership units into shares of common stock or acquire additional shares of common stock until the Saul Organization's actual ownership of common stock reaches 39.9% in value of our equity securities.. The Board of Directors may waive these restrictions on a case-by-case basis. The Board has authorized the Company to grant waivers to look-through entities, such as mutual funds, in which shares of equity stock owned by the entity are treated as owned proportionally by individuals who are the beneficial owners of the entity. Even though these entities may own stock in excess of the 2.5% ownership limit, no individual beneficially or constructively would own more than 2.5%. The Board of Directors has agreed to waive the ownership limit with respect to certain mutual funds and similar investors. In addition, the Board of Directors has agreed to waive the ownership limit with respect to certain bank pledgees of shares of our common stock and units issued by the Operating Partnership and held by members of the Saul Organization.. The ownership restrictions may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of our control that might involve a premium price for our equity stock or otherwise be in the stockholders' best interest.. 25. Table of Contents. We cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates.. Our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common stock at historical rates or to increase our common stock dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following:. • our financial condition and results of future operations;. • the performance of lease terms by tenants;. • the terms of our loan covenants; and. • our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates.. If we do not maintain or increase the dividend rate on our common stock, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. Payment of dividends on our common stock may be subject to payment in full of the dividends on any preferred stock or depositary shares and payment of interest on any debt securities we may offer.. Certain tax and anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a change of our control.. Certain provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law may discourage a third party from making a tender offer or acquisition proposal to us. If this were to happen, it could delay, deter or prevent a change in control or the removal of existing management. These provisions also may delay or prevent the stockholders from receiving a premium for their stock over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include:. • the REIT ownership limit described above;. • authorization of the issuance of our preferred stock with powers, preferences or rights to be determined by the Board of Directors;. • a staggered, fixed-size Board of Directors consisting of three classes of directors;. • special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the president, by a majority of the directors or by stockholders possessing no less than 25% of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting;. • the Board of Directors, without a stockholder vote, can classify or reclassify unissued shares of preferred stock;. • a member of the Board of Directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of 75% of the Board of Directors or 75% of the then-outstanding capital stock;. • advance notice requirements for proposals to be presented at stockholder meetings; and. • the terms of our articles of incorporation regarding business combinations and control share acquisitions.. We face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions.. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business, and our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks.  These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems.  Attacks can be both individual and/or highly organized attempts organized by very sophisticated hacking organizations.  We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats; however, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cybersecurity attack.  A cybersecurity attack could compromise the confidential information of our employees, tenants and vendors.  A successful attack could disrupt and otherwise adversely affect our business operations.. We may amend or revise our business policies without your approval.. Our Board of Directors may amend or revise our operating policies without stockholder approval. Our investment, financing and borrowing policies and policies with respect to all other activities, such as growth, debt,. 26. Table of Contents. capitalization and operations, are determined by the Board of Directors or those committees or officers to whom the Board of Directors has delegated that authority. The Board of Directors may amend or revise these policies at any time and from time to time at its discretion. A change in these policies could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the market price of our securities."
