[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. Our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control, that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. We urge investors to consider carefully the risks described below, together with all of the information in this report and our other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our securities. Each of these risk factors, as well as additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could adversely affect our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition, as well as the trading price of our common stock, in which case you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Capital Requirements and Financial Condition. We have a limited operating history and have incurred significant losses since inception, and expect that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, which makes it difficult to assess our future viability.. We are a clinical development-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our business and prospects. We have not been profitable since we commenced operations, and may not ever achieve profitability. In addition, we have limited history as an organization and have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biopharmaceutical industry. Drug development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. To date, we have not obtained any regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates, commercialized any of our product candidates or generated any product revenue. We have devoted significant resources to research and development and other expenses related to our ongoing clinical trials and operations, in addition to acquiring product candidates.. For the year ended December 31, 20 17, we incurred a net loss of $29.8 million, and net cash used in operating activities was $28.2 million. At December 31, 2017, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment securities were $94.3 million, and working capital was $91.8 million. At December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $68.2 million.  We expect to continue to incur substantial operating losses for the next several years as we seek to advance our product candidates through clinical development, global regulatory approvals, and commercialization. No revenue from operations will likely be available until, and unless, one of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or another regulatory agency and successfully marketed, or we enter into an arrangement that provides for licensing revenue or other partnering-related funding, outcomes which we may not achieve.. We will require additional financing to obtain regulatory approval for Molgradex and AeroVanc, and a failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed on acceptable terms, or at all, could force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development efforts or other operations.. Since our Aravas subsidiary was formed in 2007, most of our resources have been dedicated to the development and acquisition of our product candidates, Molgradex and AeroVanc.  Under our current operating plan we believe that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to fund our planned operations into 2020. However, we may raise additional capital, including through our \"at the market\" (ATM) offering program, to fund new studies, programs, acquisitions, or to address changes in our existing development programs. We cannot estimate with reasonable certainty the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates and there is no certainty that we will be able to raise the necessary capital on reasonable terms or at all.. Our capital requirements for the foreseeable future will depend in large part on, and could increase significantly as a result of, our expenditures on our development programs. Future expenditures on our development programs are subject to many uncertainties, and will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including:. •  the number, size, complexity, results and timing of our drug development programs;. •  the timing and terms of any collaborative or other strategic arrangement that we may establish;. •  the number of clinical and nonclinical studies necessary to demonstrate acceptable evidence of the safety and efficacy of our product candidates;. •  changes in standards of care which could increase the size and complexity of our clinical studies;. •  the number of patients who participate, the rate of enrollment, and the ratio of randomized to evaluable patients in each clinical study;. •  the ability to locate patients to participate in a study given the limited number of patients available for orphan or ultra-orphan indications;. 32. •  the number and location of sites and the rate of site initiation in each study;. •  the duration of patient treatment and follow-up;. •  the potential for additional safety monitoring or other post-marketing studies that may be requested by regulatory agencies;. •  the time and cost to manufacture clinical trial material and commercial product, including process development and scale-up activities, and to conduct stability studies, which can last several years;. •  the degree of difficulty and cost involved in securing alternate manufacturers or suppliers of drug product, components or delivery devices, as necessary to meet FDA requirements and/or commercial demand;. •  the costs, requirements, timing of, and the ability to, secure regulatory approvals;. •  the extent to which we increase our workforce and the costs involved in recruiting, training and incentivizing new employees;. •  the costs related to developing, acquiring and/or contracting for sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, supply chain management capabilities, and regulatory compliance capabilities, if we obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate and commercialize it without a partner;. •  the costs involved in evaluating competing technologies and market developments or the loss in sales in case of such competition; and. •  the costs involved in establishing, enforcing or defending patent claims and other proprietary rights.. Additional capital may not be available when we need it, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we will be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our establishment of sales and marketing, manufacturing or distribution capabilities, development activities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our product candidates, conduct preclinical or clinical studies, or other development activities.. If we raise additional capital through marketing and distribution arrangements or other collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish certain valuable rights to our product candidates, technologies, future revenue streams or research programs or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted and the terms of any new equity securities may have preferential rights over our common stock. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, it may be subject to covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt or making capital expenditures, or subject to specified financial ratios, any of which could restrict our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates or operate as a business.. Our loan agreement contains covenants which may adversely impact our business; the failure to comply with such covenants could cause our outstanding debt to become immediately payable.. On April 28, 2017, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement between us and Aravas, as co-borrowers, and Silicon Valley Bank, which we refer to as the Loan Agreement.  The Loan Agreement includes a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments, granting liens, disposing of assets, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock, subject to certain exceptions. Collectively, these covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisitions or engage in other transactions. In addition, the Loan Agreement includes covenants requiring, among other things, that we provide financial statements, comply with all laws, pay all taxes and maintain insurance. If we are not able to comply with these covenants, the loans under the Loan Agreement could become immediately due and payable and would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, operating results, business, and prospects and cause the price of our common stock to decline.. We have significant goodwill and IPR&D and impairment of goodwill and IPR&D may have a significant adverse impact on our future financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and IPR&D of approximately $60.7 million.  These intangible assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates the carrying amount of such an asset may not be recoverable. We test our goodwill and IPR&D for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the asset may be impaired. If an impairment is identified, we would be required to record an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset to our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. A significant impairment charge could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  Refer to note 20 of the consolidated financial statements for further detail.. 33. We will continue to evaluate our intangible assets for potential impairment in accordance with our accounting policies. If additional impairments are identified, we would be required to record an impairment charge with respect to the impaired asset to our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. A significant impairment charge could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Events giving rise to impairment are difficult to predict and are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry. Some of the potential risks that could result in impairment of our goodwill and IPR&D include negative clinical study results, adverse regulatory developments, delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval, additional development costs, changes in the manner of our use or development of our product candidates, competition, earlier than expected loss of exclusivity, pricing pressures, higher operating costs, changes in tax laws, prices that third parties are willing to pay for our IPR&D or similar assets in an arm's-length transaction being less than the carrying value of our IPR&D, and other market and economic environment changes or trends. Events or changes in circumstances may lead to significant impairment charges on our goodwill and/or IPR&D in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business Strategy and Operations. We are substantially dependent upon the clinical, regulatory and commercial success of our product candidates, Molgradex and AeroVanc. Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results, and our clinical trials may fail to adequately demonstrate to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities the safety and efficacy of our product candidates.. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to advance the clinical development of Molgradex for the treatment of patients with pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP), including its expansion into NTM, and AeroVanc for the treatment of persistent methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections in the lungs CF patients. The Molgradex Phase 3 clinical study (IMPALA) is ongoing in Europe, Japan, and the US. We expect to announce top-line results from the Phase 3 study of Molgradex in the second quarter of 2019. The AeroVanc Phase 3 study started in the United States and Canada in the third quarter of 2017.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. There is a high failure rate for drugs proceeding through clinical trials, and product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the required safety and efficacy despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier clinical trials, and we cannot be certain that we will not face similar setbacks. Even if our clinical trials are completed, the results may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.. Given the developmental nature of our product candidates, we are subject to risks associated with initiating, completing and achieving positive outcomes from our current and future clinical trials, including:. •  slow implementation, enrollment and completion of the clinical trials;. •  inability to enroll enough patients in the clinical trials;. •  low patient compliance and adherence to dosing and reporting requirements, for example incomplete reporting of patient reported outcomes in the clinical trials or missed doses;. •  lack of safety and efficacy in the clinical trials;. •  delays in manufacture of supplies for both drug and device components due to delays in formulation, process development, or manufacturing activities;. •  requirements for additional nonclinical or clinical studies based on changes to formulation and/or changes to regulatory requirements; and. •  requirements for additional clinical studies based on inconclusive clinical results or changes in market, standard of care, and/or regulatory requirements.. If we successfully complete the necessary clinical trials for our product candidates, our success will be subject to the risks associated with obtaining regulatory approvals, product launch, and commercialization, including:. •  FDA rejection of our NDA submissions for our product candidates;. •  regulatory rejection in the EU, Japan, and other markets;. 34. •  delays during regulatory review and/or requirements for additional CMC, nonclinical, or clinical studies, resulting in increased costs and/or delays in marketing approval and subsequent commercialization of the product candidates in the United States and other markets;. •  inability to consistently manufacture commercial supplies of drug and delivery devices resulting in slowed market development and lower revenue;. •  poor commercial sales due to:. •  the ability of our future sales organization or our potential commercialization partners to effectively sell the product candidates;. •  our lack of success in educating physicians and patients about the benefits, administration and use of our product candidates;. •  the availability, perceived advantages, relative cost, relative safety and relative efficacy of other products or treatments for the targeted indications of the product candidates;. •  low patient demand for the product candidates; and. •  poor prescription coverage and inadequate reimbursement for our product candidates;. •  our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in our product candidates; and. •  reduction in the safety profile of our product candidates following approval.. Many of these clinical, regulatory and commercial matters are beyond our control and are subject to other risks described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be able to advance our product candidates further through final clinical development, or obtain regulatory approval of, commercialize or generate significant revenue from them. If we cannot do so, or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.. If we fail to attract and retain senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates.. We have historically operated with a limited number of employees that manage third-parties for most development activities. Institutional knowledge is concentrated within a small number of employees. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel. Our future success is highly dependent upon the contributions of our senior management, as well as our senior scientists and other members of our senior management team. The loss of services of any of these individuals, who all have at-will employment arrangements with us, could delay or prevent the successful development of our product pipeline, completion of our planned clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates.. Replacing key employees may be a difficult, costly and protracted process, and we may not have other personnel with the capacity to assume all the responsibilities of a key employee upon his/her departure. Transition periods can be difficult to manage and may cause disruption to our business. In addition, there may be intense competition from other companies and organizations for qualified personnel. Other companies and organizations with which we compete for personnel may have greater financial and other resources and different risk profiles than us, and a history of successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. If we cannot attract and retain skilled personnel, as needed, we may not achieve our development and other goals.. In addition, the success of our business will depend on our ability to develop and maintain relationships with respected service providers and industry-leading consultants and advisers. If we cannot develop and maintain such relationships, as needed, the rate and success at which we can develop and commercialize product candidates may be limited. In addition, our outsourcing strategy, which has included engaging consultants that spend considerable time to manage key functional areas, may subject us to scrutiny under labor laws and regulations, which may divert management time and attention and have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We do not have, and do not have plans to establish manufacturing facilities. We completely rely on third parties for the manufacture and supply of our clinical trial drug and delivery device supplies and, if approved, commercial product materials. The loss of any of these vendors or a vendor's failure to provide us with an adequate supply of clinical trial or commercial product material in a timely manner and on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, could harm our business.. We outsource the manufacture of our product candidates and do not plan to establish our own manufacturing facilities. To manufacture our product candidates, we have made numerous custom modifications at CMOs, making us highly dependent on these. 35. CMOs. For clinical and commercial supplies, if approved, we have supply agreements with third party CMOs for drug substance, finished drug product, drug delivery devices and other necessary components of our product candidates. While we have secured long-term commercial supply agreements with many of the third party CMOs, we would need to negotiate agreements for commercial supply with several important CMOs, and we may not be able to reach agreement on acceptable terms. In addition, we rely on these third parties to conduct or assist us in key manufacturing development activities, including qualification of equipment, developing and validating methods, defining critical process parameters, releasing component materials and conducting stability testing, among other things. If these third parties are unable to perform their tasks successfully in a timely manner, whether for technical, financial or other reasons, we may be unable to secure clinical trial material, or commercial supply material if approved, which likely would delay the initiation, conduct or completion of our clinical studies or prevent us from having enough commercial supply material for sale, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business.. All manufacturers of our clinical trial material and, if approved, commercial product, including drug substance manufacturers, must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program and applicable requirements of foreign regulatory authorities. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our clinical trial material may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. While we and our representatives generally monitor and audit our manufacturers' systems, we do not have full control over their ongoing compliance with these regulations. And while the responsibility to maintain cGMP compliance is shared between us and the third-party manufacturer, we bear ultimately responsibility for our supply chain and compliance with regulatory standards. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay or failure to obtain product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval.. Currently, we do not have alternative vendors to back up our primary vendors of clinical trial material or, if approved, commercial supply material. Identification of and discussions with other vendors may be protracted and/or unsuccessful, or these new vendors may be unsuccessful in producing the same results as the current primary vendors producing the material. Therefore, if our primary vendors become unable or unwilling to perform their required activities, we could experience protracted delays or interruptions in the supply of clinical trial material and, ultimately, product for commercial sale, which would materially and adversely affect our development programs, commercial activities, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the FDA or regulatory authorities outside of the United States may require that we have an alternate manufacturer of a drug product before approving it for marketing and sale in the United States or abroad and securing such alternate manufacturer before approval of an NDA could result in considerable additional time and cost prior to NDA approval.. Any new manufacturer or supplier of finished drug product or its component materials, including drug substance and delivery devices, would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing of such product or ingredients required by us. The FDA or foreign regulatory agency may require us to conduct additional clinical studies, collect stability data and provide additional information concerning any new supplier, or change in a validated manufacturing process, including scaling-up production, before we could distribute products from that manufacturer or supplier or revised process. For example, if we were to engage a third party other than our current CMOs to supply the drug substance or drug product for future clinical trial, or commercial product, the FDA or regulatory authorities outside of the United States may require us to conduct additional clinical and nonclinical studies to ensure comparability of the drug substance or drug product manufactured by our current CMOs to that manufactured by the new supplier. Changing of suppliers or equipment is particularly challenging for companies like us, with inhalation products, because any change could alter the drug product of its performance. The manufacturing of the drug substance of Molgradex, molgramostim, a biological drug substance, as well as the drug product, Molgradex, is currently being transferred to a new manufacturing site. Producing Molgradex, a biological product, is challenging, and therefore, may require more time and resources than previously anticipated. The transfer of the manufacturing to the new site may also cause regulatory agencies, including the FDA, to require additional nonclinical or clinical studies, which may cause delay or failure to obtain regulatory approval, and incur substantial additional cost.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling-up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, and shortages of qualified personnel. Some of our product candidates have not been manufactured at the scale we believe will be necessary to maximize its commercial value and, accordingly, we may encounter difficulties in attempting to scale-up production and may not succeed in that effort on a timely basis or at all. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may impose additional requirements as we scale up initial production capabilities, which may delay our scale-up activities and/or add expense.. If our manufacturers encounter any of the aforementioned difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations or there are delays entering commercial supply agreements due to capital constraints, we may have insufficient quantities of material to support ongoing and/or planned clinical studies or to meet commercial demand, if approved. In addition, any delay or interruption in. 36. the supply of materials necessary or useful to manufacture our product candidates could delay the completion of our clinical studies, increase the costs associated with our development programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new clinical studies at significant additional expense or terminate the studies completely. Delays or interruptions in the supply of commercial product could result in increased cost of goods sold and lost sales. We cannot provide assurance that manufacturing or quality control problems will not arise in connection with the manufacture of our clinical trial material or commercial product, if approved, or that third-party manufacturers will be able to maintain the necessary governmental licenses and approvals to continue manufacturing such clinical trial material or commercial product, as applicable. In addition, Molgradex and AeroVanc are currently manufactured entirely or partially outside the United States and, as a result, we may experience interruptions in supply due to shipping or customs difficulties or regional instability. Furthermore, changes in currency fluctuations, shipping costs, or import tariffs could adversely affect cost of goods sold. Any of the above factors could cause us to delay or suspend anticipated or ongoing trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs or result in being unable to effectively commercialize our products. Our dependence upon third parties for the manufacture of our clinical trial material may adversely affect our future costs and our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates on a timely and competitive basis.. We rely significantly on third parties to conduct our nonclinical testing and clinical studies and other aspects of our development programs and if those third parties do not satisfactorily perform their contractual obligations or meet anticipated deadlines, the development of our product candidates could be adversely affected.. We do not employ personnel or possess the facilities necessary to conduct many of the activities associated with our programs. We engage consultants, advisors, CROs, CMOs and others to assist in the design and conduct of nonclinical and clinical studies of our product candidates, with interpretation of the results of those studies and with regulatory activities, and we expect to continue to outsource all or a significant amount of such activities. As a result, many important aspects of our development programs are and will continue to be outside our direct control, and our third-party service providers may not perform their activities as required or expected including the maintenance of GCP, GLP and GMP compliance, which are ultimately our responsibility to ensure. Further, such third parties may not be as committed to the success of our programs as our own employees and, therefore, may not devote the same time, thoughtfulness or creativity to completing projects or problem-solving as our own employees would. To the extent we are unable to successfully manage the performance of third-party service providers, our business may be adversely affected.. The CROs that we engage to execute our clinical studies play a significant role in the conduct of the studies, including the collection and analysis of study data, and we likely will depend on CROs and clinical investigators to conduct future clinical studies and to assist in analyzing data from completed studies and developing regulatory strategies for our product candidates. Individuals working at the CROs with which we contract, as well as investigators at the sites at which our studies are conducted, are not our employees, and we have limited control over the amount or timing of resources that they devote to their programs. If our CROs, study investigators, and/or third-party sponsors fail to devote sufficient time and resources to studies of our product candidates, if we and/or our CROs do not comply with all GLP and GCP regulatory and contractual requirements, or if their performance is substandard, we may delay commencement and/or completion of these studies, submission of applications for regulatory approval, regulatory approval, and commercialization of our product candidates. Failure of CROs to meet their obligations to us could adversely affect development of our product candidates.. In addition, CROs we engage may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. Through intentional or unintentional means, our competitors may benefit from lessons learned on our projects that could ultimately harm our competitive position. Moreover, if a CRO fails to properly, or at all, perform our activities during a clinical study, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, or at all. Switching CROs may increase costs and divert management time and attention. In addition, there likely would be a transition period before a new CRO commences work. These challenges could result in delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical studies, which could materially impact our ability to meet our desired and/or announced development timelines and have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition.. We currently have limited marketing capabilities and no sales organization. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities on our own or through third parties, we will be unable to successfully commercialize our products, if approved, or generate product revenue.. To commercialize our products, if approved, in the United States and other jurisdictions we seek to enter, we must build our marketing, sales, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, and we may not be successful in doing so. If our products receive regulatory approval, we expect to market such products in the United States through a focused, specialized sales force, which will be costly and time consuming. We have no prior experience in the marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products and there are significant risks involved in building and managing a sales organization, including our ability to hire, retain and incentivize qualified individuals, generate sufficient sales leads, provide adequate training to sales and marketing personnel and effectively manage a geographically dispersed sales and marketing team. Outside of the United. 37. States, we may consider collaboration arrangements. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products in certain markets. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of our products. If we are not successful in commercializing our products, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we would incur significant additional losses.. Any future acquisitions that we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition.. We expect to evaluate, from time to time, potential strategic acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies.  In addition, we expect to evaluate joint ventures, licensing and other collaborative projects. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or strategic partners, or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate acquisitions of any businesses, products or technologies. Furthermore, the integration of any acquisition and management of any collaborative project may divert our management's time and resources from our core business and disrupt our operations. Any cash acquisition we pursue would diminish the funds otherwise available to us for other uses. Any stock acquisition would dilute our stockholders' ownership interests.. To establish a sales and marketing infrastructure and expand our manufacturing capabilities, we will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of March 12, 2018, we had 23 full-time employees, including 13 employees engaged in research and development. As we advance our product candidates through the development process and to commercialization, we will need to continue to expand our development, regulatory, quality, managerial, sales and marketing, operational, finance and other resources to manage our operations and clinical trials, continue our development activities and commercialize our product candidates, if approved. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various manufacturers and collaborative partners, suppliers and other organizations.. Due to our limited financial resources and our limited experience in managing a company with anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. In addition, the physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management attention and resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our development and strategic objectives, or disrupt our operations, which could materially impact our business, revenue and operating results.. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or adverse events, or have other properties that could delay or prevent our clinical development, regulatory approval or commercialization.. Undesirable side effects or adverse events caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical studies and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. A significant challenge in clinical development is that the patient population in early studies, where small numbers of patients are required, is different from the patient population observed in later stage studies, where larger groups of patients are required. For example, patients in earlier stage studies may be more sick, compliant, or otherwise motivated than patients in larger studies. As such, efficacy or safety results may differ significantly between studies. Side-effects seen at high doses in earlier studies of AeroVanc, such as bronchoconstriction or other airway irritation, may be seen in significant numbers at the lower doses selected for later studies. Also, for AeroVanc, while not observed in the Phase 2 clinical study, the emergence of vancomycin-resistant MRSA could occur during the longer dosing period of AeroVanc that is currently implemented in the Phase 3 clinical study. If this or other undesirable side effects occur, they could possibly prevent approval, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business.. If any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product:. •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a \"black box\" warning or a contraindication;. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product;. •  we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical studies or change the labeling of the product; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. 38. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenue from its sale.. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we have announced.. We have set goals for accomplishing certain objectives material to the successful development of our product candidates. The actual timing of these events may vary due to many factors, including delays or failures in our nonclinical testing, clinical studies and manufacturing and regulatory activities and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. From time to time we create estimates for the completion of enrollment of or announcement of data from clinical studies of our product candidates. However, predicting the rate of enrollment or the time from completion of enrollment to announcement of data for any clinical study requires us to make significant assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. Our estimated enrollment rates and the actual rates may differ materially and the time required to complete enrollment of any clinical study may be considerably longer than we estimate. Such delays may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Even if we complete a clinical study with successful results, we may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we initially anticipate or announce. If a development plan for a product candidate becomes more extensive and costly than anticipated, we may determine that the associated time and cost are not financially justifiable and, as a result, may discontinue development in a particular indication or of the product candidate as a whole. In addition, even if a study did complete with successful results, changes may occur in regulatory requirements or policy during the period of product development and/or regulatory review of an NDA that relate to the data required to be included in NDAs which may require additional studies that may be costly and time consuming. Any of these actions may be viewed negatively, which could adversely impact our financial condition.. Further, throughout development, we must provide adequate assurance to the FDA and other regulatory authorities that we can consistently develop and produce our product candidates in conformance with GLP, GCP, cGMP, and other regulatory standards. As discussed above, we rely on CMOs for the manufacture of clinical, and future commercial, quantities of our product candidates. If future FDA or other regulatory authority inspections identify cGMP compliance deficiencies at these third-party facilities, production of our clinical trial material or, in the future, commercial product, could be disrupted, causing potentially substantial delay in or failure of development or commercialization of our product candidates.. Our employees, independent contractors and consultants, principal investigators, CROs, CMOs and other vendors, and any future commercial partners may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could cause significant liability for us and harm our reputation.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors and consultants, principal investigators, CROs, CMOs and other vendors, and any future commercial partners may engage in fraudulent conduct or other misconduct, including intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations or similar regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities, to provide accurate information to the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, to comply with manufacturing standards required by cGMP or our standards, to comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and similar laws and regulations established and enforced by comparable foreign regulatory authorities, and to report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to them. The misconduct of our employees and other service providers could involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. Although we have adopted a code of business ethics and conduct, it is not always possible to identify and deter such misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against them, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. For example, if one of our manufacturing partners was placed under a consent decree, we may be hampered in our ability to manufacture clinical or commercial supplies.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of third-party computer system failures, cyber-attacks on third-party systems or deficiency in our cyber security.. We rely on information technology systems, including third-party \"cloud based\" service providers, to keep financial records, maintain laboratory, clinical data and corporate records, communicate with staff and external parties and operate other critical functions. This includes critical systems such as email, other communication tools, electronic document repositories, and archives. If any of these third-party information technology (IT) providers are compromised due to computer viruses, unauthorized access, malware, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures, electrical failures, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, then sensitive emails or documents could be exposed or deleted. Similarly, we could incur business disruption if our access to the. 39. internet is compromised and we are unable to connect with third-party IT providers. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. In addition, we rely on those third parties to safeguard important confidential personal data regarding our employees and patients enrolled in our clinical trials. If a disruption event were to occur and cause interruptions in a third-party IT provider's operations, it could result in a disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and development of our product candidates could be delayed, or could fail.. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event.. Our corporate headquarters is located in a single commercial facility in Austin, Texas, USA. We maintain a second office in a single commercial facility in Denmark where many of our product development staff are located. Important documents and records, including copies of our regulatory documents and other records for our product candidates, are located both at a secure offsite document storage facility as well at our own facilities and we depend on our facilities for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as wildfires and other fires, earthquakes and extended power interruptions and terrorist attacks or severe weather conditions, could significantly disrupt our operations and result in additional, unplanned expense. As a small company with limited resources, we have not prepared or implemented a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan and any natural disaster or catastrophic event could disrupt our business operations and result in setbacks to our development programs. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable insurance, we might suffer losses that are not covered by or exceed the coverage available under these insurance policies.. Risks Related to Drug Development and Commercialization. We depend on the successful completion of clinical studies of our product candidates, and any positive results in prior clinical studies do not ensure that ongoing or future clinical studies will be successful.. Pharmaceutical products are subject to stringent regulatory requirements covering quality, safety, and efficacy. The burden of proof is on the manufacturer, such as Savara, to show with substantial clinical data that the risk/benefit profile for any new drug is favorable. Only after successfully completing extensive pharmaceutical development, nonclinical testing, and clinical studies may a product be considered for regulatory approval.. Clinical studies are expensive, difficult to design and implement, they can take many years to complete, and outcomes are inherently uncertain. A drug product may fail to demonstrate positive results at any stage of testing despite having progressed satisfactorily through nonclinical testing and initial clinical studies. There is significant risk in clinical development where later stage clinical studies are designed and powered based on the analysis of data from earlier studies, with these earlier studies involving a smaller number of patients, and the results of the earlier studies being driven primarily by a subset of responsive patients. In addition, interim results of a clinical study do not necessarily predict final results. Further, clinical study data frequently are susceptible to varying interpretations. Medical professionals and/or regulatory authorities may analyze or weigh study data differently than the sponsor company, resulting in delay or failure to obtain marketing approval for a product candidate. Additionally, the possible lack of standardization across multiple investigative sites may induce variability in the results which can interfere with the evaluation of treatment effects.. If we license rights to develop our product candidates to independent third parties or otherwise permit such third parties to evaluate our product candidates in clinical studies, we may have limited control over those clinical studies. Any safety or efficacy concern identified in a third-party sponsored study could adversely affect our or another licensee's development of our product candidate and prospects for its regulatory approval, even if the data from that study are subject to varying interpretations and analyses.. There is significant risk that ongoing and future clinical studies of our product candidates are unsuccessful. Negative or inconclusive results could cause the FDA and other regulatory authorities to require us to repeat or conduct additional clinical studies, which could significantly increase the time and expense associated with development of that product candidate or cause us to elect to discontinue one or more clinical programs. Failure to complete a clinical study of a product candidate or an unsuccessful result of a clinical study could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Molgradex and AeroVanc have received Orphan Drug Designation by the FDA and Molgradex has received Orphan Drug Designation also in Europe. While orphan designation provides certain benefits there are also associated risks.. Molgradex has received Orphan Drug Designation in the United States by the FDA and in Europe by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment of PAP, and AeroVanc has been granted Orphan Drug Designation in the United States by the FDA for the treatment. 40. of MRSA lung infection in patients with CF. Orphan Drug Designation will not shorten the regulatory review or reduce the clinical data requirements needed to obtain approval. If approval is received to market either Molgradex or AeroVanc for the respective indications, FDA will not approve a similar product, with the same active ingredient, to Molgradex or AeroVanc for seven years and the European Medicines Agency will not approve a similar product to Molgradex for ten years, unless we are unable to produce enough supply to meet demand in the marketplace or another similar product, with the same active ingredient, is deemed clinically superior. Similar product candidates, with the same active ingredient and route of delivery, may be granted Orphan Drug Designation during the development of the respective products, but the Orphan Drug exclusivity is granted only to the first of such products approved, which means there is risk that a competitor product candidate may receive approval and Orphan Drug exclusivity before us, thus preventing us from marketing one or more of our product candidates until the exclusivity of the competing product expires. Also, the Orphan Drug status will not prevent a competitor with a different active ingredient from competing with our product candidates. If we are prevented from marketing one or more product candidates due to a competitor's Orphan Drug exclusivity, this would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Delays in commencement and completion of clinical studies are common and have many causes. Delays in clinical studies of our product candidates would likely increase overall development costs and jeopardize our ability to obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize any approved products.. Clinical testing typically is expensive, can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Clinical studies may not commence on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical studies can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including:. •  inability to raise sufficient funding to initiate or continue a clinical study;. •  delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical study;. •  delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical study sites and investigators, which agreements can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among study sites;. •  delays in obtaining regulatory approval in a prospective country;. •  delays in obtaining ethic committee approval to conduct a clinical study at a prospective site;. •  delays in reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, or other vendors for the production and supply of clinical trial material and, if necessary, drug administration devices, which agreements can be subject to extensive negotiation;. •  delays in the production or delivery of sufficient quantities of clinical trial material or drug delivery devices from our CMOs and other vendors to initiate or continue a clinical study;. •  delays due to product candidate recalls as result of stability failure, excessive product complaints or other failures of the product candidate during its use or testing;. •  invalidation of clinical data caused by premature unblinding or integrity issues;. •  invalidation of clinical data caused by mixing up of the active drug and placebo through randomization or manufacturing errors;. •  delays on the part of our CROs, CMOs, and other third-party contractors in developing procedures and protocols or otherwise conducting activities in accordance with applicable policies and procedures and in accordance with agreed upon timelines;. •  delays in identifying and hiring or engaging, as applicable, additional employees or consultants to assist in managing clinical study-related activities;. •  delays in recruiting and enrolling individuals to participate in a clinical study, which historically can be challenging in orphan diseases;. •  delays caused by patients dropping out of a clinical study due to side effects, concurrent disorders, difficulties in adhering to the study protocol, unknown issues related to different patient profiles than in previous studies, such as the reduced age limit required for inclusion into the AeroVanc Phase 3 study, or otherwise;. •  delays in having patients complete participation in a clinical study, including returning for post-treatment follow-up;. 41. •  delays resulting from study sites dropping out of a trial, providing inadequate staff support for the study, problems with shipment of study supplies to clinical sites or focusing its staff's efforts on enrolling studies that compete for the same patient population;. •  suspension of enrollment at a study site or the imposition of a clinical hold by the FDA or other regulatory authority following an inspection of clinical study operations at study sites or finding of a drug-related serious adverse event; and. •  delays in quality control/quality assurance procedures necessary for study database lock and analysis of unblinded data.. Patient enrollment, a critical component to successful completion of a clinical study, is affected by many factors, including the size and nature of the study population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the design of the clinical study, ongoing studies competing for the same patient population and clinicians, patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to available alternatives, including therapies being investigated by other companies which may be viewed as more beneficial or important to study, fear of being randomized to the placebo arm, and changes in standard of care. Challenges to complete enrollment can be exacerbated in orphan indications, like those being pursued by us, with a limited number of qualifying patients and the lack of clinical sites with the necessary expertise and experience to conduct our studies. Further, completion of a clinical study and/or its results may be adversely affected by failure to retain patients who enroll in a study but withdraw due to adverse side effects, perceived lack of efficacy, belief that they are on placebo, improvement in condition before treatment has been completed, or for personal reasons, or without reason, or by patients who fail to return for or complete post-treatment follow-up.. Clinical studies may not begin on time or be completed in the time frames we anticipate and may be costlier than we anticipate for a variety of reasons, including one or more of those described above. The length of time necessary to successfully complete clinical studies varies significantly and is difficult to predict accurately. We may make statements regarding anticipated timing for completion of enrollment in and/or availability of results from our clinical studies, but such predictions are subject to a number of significant assumptions and actual timing may differ materially for a variety of reasons, including patient enrollment rates, length of time needed to prepare raw study data for analysis and then to review and analyze it, and other factors described above. If we experience delays in the completion of a clinical study, if a clinical study is terminated, or if failure to conduct a study in accordance with regulatory requirements or the study's protocol leads to deficient safety and/or efficacy data, the regulatory approval and/or commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical studies likely will increase our development costs. Further, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical studies may ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we ultimately commercialize our product candidates, the standard of care may have changed or other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market in the interim and may establish a competitive threat to us or diminish the need for our products.. Clinical studies are very expensive, difficult to design and implement, often take many years to complete, and the outcome is inherently uncertain.. Clinical development of pharmaceutical products for humans is generally very expensive, takes many years to complete and failures can occur at any stage of clinical testing. We estimate that clinical development of our product candidates will take several additional years to complete, but because of the variety of factors that can affect the design, timing and outcome of clinical studies, we are unable to estimate the exact funds required to complete research and development, obtain regulatory approval and commercialize all of our product candidates. We will need significant additional capital to continue to advance our products as per current business plans.. Failure at any stage of clinical testing is not uncommon and we may encounter problems that would require additional, unplanned studies or cause us to abandon a clinical development program.. In addition, a clinical study may be suspended or terminated by us, an IRB, a data safety monitoring board, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. •  lack of adequate funding to continue the study;. •  failure to conduct the study in accordance with regulatory requirements or the study's protocol;. •  inspection of clinical study operations or sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold;. •  unforeseen safety issues, including adverse side effects; or. •  changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions.. 42. Changes in governmental regulations and guidance relating to clinical studies may occur and we may need to amend study protocols to reflect these changes, or we may amend study protocols for other reasons. Amendments may require us to resubmit protocols to IRBs for re-examination and approval or renegotiate terms with CROs, study sites and investigators, all of which may adversely impact the costs or timing of or our ability to successfully complete a trial.. There is significant uncertainty regarding the regulatory approval process for any investigational new drug, substantial further testing and validation of our product candidates and related manufacturing processes may be required, and regulatory approval may be conditioned, delayed or denied, any of which could delay or prevent us from successfully marketing our product candidates and substantially harm our business.. Pharmaceutical products generally are subject to rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical studies and other approval procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Various federal and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or materially influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate U.S. and foreign statutes and regulations is time-consuming and requires the expenditure of substantial resources.. Molgradex is currently undergoing a Phase 3 clinical study in the United States, Europe, and Japan. The product (formulation, process, packaging, and device) used in this Phase 3 study will be submitted in marketing applications to regulatory authorities unchanged. However, the product submitted may result in regulatory delays and/or non-acceptance for a variety of reasons including but not limited to: justification for inclusion of one or more excipients; safety qualification of one or more excipients; acceptability of commercial manufacturing site; ease of presenting the dose to the nebulizer; and, reproducibility of delivered dose from nebulizer. Concurrently, we are exploring formulation, process, packaging, and device improvements that could simplify the composition of the drug product by eliminating one or more potentially unnecessary or harmful excipients, improve the ease of use of the product, and/or reduce the overall product variability. While we expect these changes to improve the product quality and possibly reduce other documentation requirements, the regulatory agencies may require additional clinical or nonclinical studies prior to approval of such changes, including conducting an additional Phase 3 clinical study that would significantly extend the timeline for clinical development of Molgradex in PAP.. The manufacturing process and site for the drug product will change post-Phase 3. Changes in the manufacturing process and site have a potential to result in untoward changes in drug product characteristics. If the commercial drug product differs significantly from the product studied in Phase 3, then regulatory agencies may require additional clinical or nonclinical studies prior to approval of such changes, including conducting an additional Phase 3 clinical study that would significantly extend the timeline for clinical development of Molgradex in PAP.. We recently received guidance from the FDA on the requirements to initiate clinical studies in the United States and on the clinical study requirements to achieve BLA approval for Molgradex. Based on the guidance, we amended our ongoing Phase 3 clinical study to include more patients, and amended our endpoint hierarchy and statistical analyses to be used for U.S. approval purposes. Even if the clinical study meets all of its statistical goals and protocol end points, the FDA may not view the results to provide persuasive evidence of efficacy across multiple clinical endpoints. Instead, they may require additional clinical studies and/or other costly studies, including an additional Phase 3 study, which would require us to expend substantial additional resources and would significantly extend the timeline for clinical development prior to market approval, or result in failure to complete the clinical development of Molgradex.. We have commenced the Phase 3 trial of AeroVanc, the success of which will be needed for FDA approval to market AeroVanc in the United States to treat persistent MRSA lung infection in individuals living with CF. While significant communication with the FDA on the Phase 3 study design has occurred, even if the Phase 3 clinical study meets all of its statistical goals and protocol end points, the FDA may not view the results as robust and convincing. They may require additional clinical studies and/or other costly studies, which could require us to expend substantial additional resources and could significantly extend the timeline for clinical development prior to market approval. Additionally, we are conducting a two-year nonclinical carcinogenicity study on the AeroVanc powder, required by the FDA. The results of this study will not be known until a short time prior to potential submission of an NDA for AeroVanc. If the carcinogenicity study cannot be completed for technical or other reasons, or provides results that the FDA determines to be concerning, this may cause a delay or failure in obtaining approval for AeroVanc.. Significant uncertainty exists with respect to the regulatory approval process for any investigational new drug, including Molgradex, and AeroVanc. Regardless of any guidance the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may provide a drug's sponsor during its development, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies retain complete discretion in deciding whether to accept an NDA or BLA or the equivalent foreign regulatory approval submission for filing or, if accepted, approve an NDA or BLA. There are many components to an NDA or BLA or marketing authorization application submission in addition to clinical study data. For example, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies will review the sponsor's internal systems and processes, as well as those of its CROs, CMOs and other vendors,. 43. related to development of its product candidates, including those pertaining to its clinical studies and manufacturing processes. Before accepting an NDA for review or before approving the NDA or BLA, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may request that we provide additional information that may require significant resources and time to generate and there is no guarantee that its product candidates will be approved for any indication for which we may apply. The FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may choose not to approve an NDA or BLA for any of a variety of reasons, including a decision related to the safety or efficacy data, manufacturing controls or systems, or for any other issues that the agency may identify related to the development of its product candidates. Even if one or more Phase 3 clinical studies are successful in providing statistically significant evidence of the efficacy and safety of the investigational drug, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may not consider efficacy and safety data from the submitted studies adequate scientific support for a conclusion of effectiveness and/or safety and may require one or more additional Phase 3 or other studies prior to granting marketing approval. If this were to occur, the overall development cost for the product candidate would be substantially greater and competitors may bring products to market before us, which could impair our ability to generate revenues from the product candidates, or even seek approval, if blocked by a competitor's Orphan Drug exclusivity, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Further, development of our product candidates and/or regulatory approval may be delayed for reasons beyond our control. For example, U.S. federal government shut-down or budget sequestration, such as one that occurred during January 2018, may result in significant reductions to the FDA's budget, employees and operations, which may lead to slower response times and longer review periods, potentially affecting our ability to progress development of our product candidates or obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.. Even if the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies grant approvals for our product candidates, the conditions or scope of the approval(s) may limit successful commercialization of the product candidates and impair our ability to generate substantial sales revenue. For example, the FDA may approve label claims for AeroVanc with age restrictions and/or treatment duration limitations, or Molgradex with restrictions for use only by patients unresponsive to the current standard of care. They may limit the label of Molgradex or AeroVanc to a subset of patients based on a review of which patient groups had the greatest efficacious response in clinical studies. Such label restriction may be undesirable and may limit successful commercialization. The FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may also only grant marketing approval contingent on the performance of costly post-approval nonclinical or clinical studies, or subject to warnings or contraindications that limit commercialization. Additionally, even after granting approval, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for our products will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, and continued compliance with current good manufacturing processes, or cGMP, good clinical practices, international conference on harmonization regulations and good laboratory practices, which are regulations and guidelines that are enforced by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies for all of its clinical development and for any clinical studies that we conduct post-approval. The FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may decide to withdraw approval, add warnings or narrow the approved indications in the product label, or establish risk management programs that could restrict distribution of our products. These actions could result from, among other things, safety concerns, including unexpected side effects or drug interaction problems, or concerns over misuse of a product. If any of these actions were to occur following approval, we may have to discontinue commercialization of the product, limit our sales and marketing efforts, implement risk minimization procedures, and/or conduct post-approval studies, which in turn could result in significant expense and delay or limit our ability to generate sales revenues.. Regulations may be changed prior to submission of a marketing application that require higher hurdles than currently anticipated. These may occur as a result of drug scandals, recalls, or a political environment unrelated to our products.. 44. Even if we receive regulatory approval for a product candidate, we may face regulatory difficulties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Even if initial regulatory approval is obtained, as a condition to the initial approval the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency may impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or marketing surveillance programs, any of which would limit the commercial potential of the product. Our product candidates also will be subject to ongoing FDA requirements related to the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information regarding the product. For instance, the FDA may require changes to approved drug labels, require post-approval clinical studies and impose distribution and use restrictions on certain drug products. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers' facilities are subject to continuing regulatory review and periodic inspections. If previously unknown problems with a product are discovered, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, the FDA may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we or a CMO of ours fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:. •  issue warning letters or untitled letters;. •  impose civil or criminal penalties;. •  suspend or withdraw regulatory approval;. •  suspend or terminate any ongoing clinical studies;. •  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications;. •  exclude our product from reimbursement under government healthcare programs, including Medicaid or Medicare;. •  impose restrictions or affirmative obligations on our or our CMO's operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;. •  close the facilities of a CMO; or. •  seize or detain products or require a product recall.. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval fails to achieve significant market acceptance among the medical community, patients or third-party payers, the revenue we generate from its sales will be limited and our business may never achieve profitability.. Our success will depend in substantial part on the extent to which our product candidates, if approved, are accepted by the medical community and patients and reimbursed by third-party payers, including government payers. The degree of market acceptance with respect to each of our approved products, if any, will depend upon a number of factors, including:. •  the safety and efficacy of our products as demonstrated in clinical studies;. •  acceptance in the medical and patient communities of our products as a safe and effective treatment;. •  the product's taste, ease of use, or features associated with the delivery device;. •  the perceived advantages of our product over alternative treatments, including with respect to the incidence and severity of any adverse side effects and the cost of treatment;. •  the indications for which our product is approved;. •  claims or other information (including limitations or warnings) in a product's approved labeling;. •  reimbursement and coverage policies of government and other third-party payers;. •  pricing and cost-effectiveness of our product relative to alternative treatments;. •  availability of alternative treatments;. •  smaller than expected market size due to lack of disease awareness of a rare disease, or the patient population with a specific rare disease being smaller than anticipated;. •  inappropriate diagnostic efforts due to limited knowledge and/or resources among clinicians;. 45. •  the prevalence of off-label substitution of chemically equivalent products or alternative treatments; and. •  the resources we devote to marketing our product and restrictions on promotional claims we can make with respect to the product.. We cannot predict with reasonable accuracy whether physicians, patients, healthcare insurers or health maintenance organizations, or the medical community in general, will accept or utilize any of our products, if approved. If our product candidates are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by these parties, we may not generate sufficient revenue to become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payers regarding benefits of our products may require significant resources and may never be successful.. If we determine that a product candidate may not achieve adequate market acceptance or that the potential market size does not justify additional expenditures on the program, we may reduce our expenditures on the development and/or the process of seeking regulatory approval of the product candidate while we evaluate whether and on what timeline to move the program forward.. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market one or more of our product candidates in the United States, we may never receive approval or commercialize our products outside of the United States, which would limit our ability to realize the full commercial potential of our product candidates.. In order to market products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with the numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries generally differs from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States, as well as other risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. As described above, such effects include the risks that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies.  Conversely, if the product candidates do receive approval outside the United States in the future, we may not meet the FDA requirements in the United States for approval.. We must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, to which we are subject, prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. It is illegal to pay, offer to pay or authorize the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. Other countries, such as the U.K., have similar laws with which we must comply. We face the risk that an employee or agent could be accused of violating one or more of these laws, particularly in geographies where significant overlap exists between local government and healthcare industries. Such an accusation, even if unwarranted, could prove disruptive to our developmental and commercialization efforts.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our success will depend on obtaining and maintaining effective patent and other intellectual property protection for our product candidates and proprietary technology.. AeroVanc has received a U.S. Patent Notice of Allowance for its formulation in the United States, AeroVanc's primary market. AeroVanc has either been issued patents or is prosecuting patent applications in numerous countries outside the United States. We have no patent protection for Molgradex for the treatment of PAP, and primarily rely on the Orphan Drug exclusivity as our primary barrier to competition. Both Molgradex and AeroVanc utilize proprietary delivery devices with exclusive supply agreements. Molgradex is eligible for protection via a proprietary cell bank used in the production of the drug substance.. Our success will depend on our ability to:. •  obtain and maintain patent and other exclusivity rights with respect to our products and their uses;. •  prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights;. 46. •  maintain proprietary know-how and trade secrets;. •  operate without infringing upon the patents and proprietary rights of others; and. •  obtain appropriate licenses to patents or proprietary rights held by third parties if infringement would otherwise occur or if necessary to secure exclusive rights to them, both in the United States and in foreign countries.. The patent and intellectual property positions of biopharmaceutical companies generally are highly uncertain, involve complex legal and factual questions, and have been and continue to be the subject of much litigation. There is no guarantee that we have or will develop or obtain the rights to products or processes that are patentable, that patents will issue from any pending applications or that claims allowed will be sufficient to protect the technology we develop or have developed or that is used by us, our CMOs or our other service providers. In addition, any patents that are issued to us may be limited in scope or challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, including by our competitors, and rights we have under issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. If competitors can develop and commercialize technology and products similar to ours, our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be impaired.. Patent applications in the United States are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months. As a result, we cannot be certain that the inventors listed in any patent or patent application owned by us were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and patent applications (for U.S. patent applications filed before March 16, 2013), or that such inventors were the first to file patent applications for such inventions outside the United States and, after March 15, 2013, in the United States. In addition, changes in or different interpretations of patent laws in the United States and foreign countries may affect our patent rights and limit the number of patents we can obtain, which could permit others to use our discoveries or to develop and commercialize our technology and products without any compensation to us.. Our AeroVanc patent is specific to the formulation of the AeroVanc powder. While this may prevent identical products from entering the market, it may not preclude someone skilled in the art from inventing an alternate formulation approach with comparable or improved characteristics.. We also rely on unpatented know-how and trade secrets and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and others. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain consultants. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights, however, may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of or otherwise protect our proprietary information or prevent infringement of our intellectual property rights, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such misappropriation or infringement. In addition, it is possible that inventions relevant to our business could be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement with us or independently discovered by a competitor.. We also intend to rely on regulatory exclusivity for protection of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. Implementation and enforcement of regulatory exclusivity, which may consist of regulatory data protection and market protection, varies widely from country to country. Failure to qualify for regulatory exclusivity, or failure to obtain or maintain the extent or duration of such protections that we expect for our product candidates, if approved, could affect our decision on whether to market the products in a particular country or countries or could otherwise have an adverse impact on our revenue or results of operations. For Molgradex, which is administered via nebulization, we may rely on regulatory exclusivity for the combination of Molgradex and its delivery system. However, there is no assurance that our Molgradex product and its delivery system, if approved, will benefit from this type of market protection.. We may rely on trademarks, trade names and brand names to distinguish our products, if approved for commercial sale, from the products of our competitors. We intend to seek approval for new names for AeroVanc and Molgradex that meet the FDA's and foreign regulatory requirements. However, our trademark applications may not be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks in which case we may expend substantial resources to defend our proposed or approved trademarks and may enter into agreements with third parties that may limit our use of our trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our product, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote significant resources to advertising and marketing these new brands. For example, we filed a trademark for the name \"Savara\" and were challenged. We decided to terminate its application, but we may revisit such filings at a future date. Further, our competitors may infringe our trademarks or we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. 47. Our success depends on our ability to prevent competitors from duplicating or developing and commercializing equivalent versions of our product candidates, but patent protection may be difficult to obtain and any issued claims may be limited.. We have filed for patent protection in the United States and other countries to cover the formulation of AeroVanc and were granted a notice of allowance in the United States, its primary market. However, this patent may not provide us with significant competitive advantages, because the validity or enforceability of the patents may be challenged and, if instituted, one or more of the challenges may be successful. Patents may be challenged in the United States under post-grant review proceedings, inter partes re-examination, ex parte re-examination, or challenges in district court. Any patents issued in foreign jurisdictions may be subjected to comparable proceedings lodged in various foreign patent offices, or courts. These proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent. Even if a patent issues, and is held valid and enforceable, competitors may be able to design around our patents, such as by using pre-existing or newly developed technology, in which case competitors may not infringe our issued claims and may be able to market and sell products that compete directly with us before and after our patents expire.. We have filed for patent protection in the U.S. and other countries to cover various methods of therapeutic use of our product candidates, including the use of Molgradex for treating NTM lung infection. The potential use and potential therapeutic benefits of systemically administered GM-CSF for systemic NTM disease have been described in case reports in the literature, and therefore the use of an inhaled form of GM-CSF may be considered to lack novelty and an inventive step, and thereby to be unpatentable.. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming. We and any future licensors and licensees may not apply for or prosecute patents on certain aspects of our product candidates at a reasonable cost, in a timely fashion, or at all. We may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of some patent applications related to our product candidates or technologies. As a result, these patents and patent applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of us. It is also possible that we or any future licensors or licensees will fail to identify patentable aspects of inventions made in the course of development and commercialization activities before it is too late to obtain patent protection on them. Further, it is possible that defects of form in the preparation or filing of our patent applications may exist, or may arise in the future, such as with respect to proper priority claims, inventorship, assignment, or claim scope. If there are material defects in the form or preparation of our patents or patent applications, such patents or applications may be invalid or unenforceable. In addition, one or more parties may independently develop similar technologies or methods, duplicate our technologies or methods, or design around the patented aspects of our products, technologies or methods. Any of these circumstances could impair our ability to protect our products, if approved, in ways which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Furthermore, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in and outside of the United States. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability use our patents to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical products or technology, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and drugs. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new drug candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing drugs similar or identical to those of us once Orphan Drug and Qualified Infectious Disease Product exclusivities have expired. See the section entitled \"Risks Related to Our Industry\" for further description of Orphan Drug and Qualified Infectious Disease Product exclusivities.. Enforcement of intellectual property rights in certain countries outside the United States has been limited or non-existent. Future enforcement of patents and proprietary rights in many other countries will likely be problematic or unpredictable. Moreover, the issuance of a patent in one country does not assure the issuance of a similar patent in another country. Claim interpretation and infringement laws vary by nation, so the extent of any patent protection is uncertain and may vary in different jurisdictions.. Obtaining and maintaining patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees, renewal fees, annuity fees and various other governmental fees on patents and applications are required to be paid to the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and various governmental patent agencies outside of the United States in several stages over the lifetime of the patents and applications. The USPTO and various non-U.S. governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process and after a patent has issued. There are situations in which non-compliance can result in decreased patent term adjustment or in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, leading to partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction.. 48. Third parties may claim that our products, if approved, infringe on their proprietary rights and may challenge the approved use or uses of a product or its patent rights through litigation or administrative proceedings, and defending such actions may be costly and time consuming, divert management attention away from our business, and result in an unfavorable outcome that could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our commercial success depends on our ability and the ability of our CMOs and component suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are or may be developing products. Because patent applications can take many years to publish and issue, there currently may be pending applications, unknown to us, that may later result in issued patents that our products, product candidates or technologies infringe, or that the process of manufacturing its products or any of our respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, infringe, or that the use of our products, product candidates or technologies infringe.. We or our CMOs or component material suppliers may be exposed to, or threatened with, litigation by third parties alleging that our products, product candidates and/or technologies infringe its patents and/or other intellectual property rights, or that one or more of the processes for manufacturing its products or any of our respective component materials, or the component materials themselves, or the use of our products, product candidates or technologies, infringe its patents and/or other intellectual property rights. If a third-party patent or other intellectual property right is found to cover our products, product candidates, technologies or our uses, or any of the underlying manufacturing processes or components, we could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our products or use our technologies or methods unless we are able to obtain a license to the patent or intellectual property right. A license may not be available to us in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, during litigation, the third-party alleging infringement could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable remedy that could prohibit us from making, using, selling or importing our products, technologies or methods.. There generally is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we operate and the cost of such litigation may be considerable. We can provide no assurance that our product candidates or technologies will not infringe patents or rights owned by others, licenses to which might not be available to us in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, or at all. If a third party claims that we or our CMOs or component material suppliers infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to:. •  infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time consuming to litigate and may divert management's time and attention from our business;. •  substantial damages for infringement, including the potential for treble damages and attorneys' fees, which we may have to pay if it is determined that the product and/or its use at issue infringes or violates the third party's rights;. •  a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third-party licenses its intellectual property rights to us, which we may not be required to do;. •  if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross-licenses to the third party; and. •  redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial expense and time.. No assurance can be given that patents do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued, which contain claims covering our products, product candidates or technology or those of our CMOs or component material suppliers or the use of our products, product candidates or technologies. Because of the large number of patents issued and patent applications filed in the industries in which we operate, there is a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, product candidates or technologies, or those of our CMOs or component material suppliers, or uses of our products, product candidates or technologies.. In the future, it may be necessary for us to enforce our proprietary rights, or to determine the scope, validity and unenforceability of other parties' proprietary rights, through litigation or other dispute proceedings, which may be costly, and to the extent we are unsuccessful, adversely affect our rights. In these proceedings, a court or administrative body could determine that our claims, including those related to enforcing patent rights, are not valid or that an alleged infringer has not infringed our rights. The uncertainty resulting from the mere institution and continuation of any patent or other proprietary rights-related litigation or interference proceeding could have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects, operating results and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We expect competition in the marketplace for our product candidates, should any of them receive regulatory approval.. Molgradex and AeroVanc have received Orphan Drug Designation from the FDA and Molgradex has received Orphan Drug Designation from the European Medicines Agency. Orphan Drug Designation will provide market exclusivity in the U.S. for 7 years. 49. and 10 years in Europe, but only if (1) Molgradex and AeroVanc receive market approval before a competitor using the same active compound for the same indication, (2) we are able produce sufficient supply to meet demand in the marketplace, and (3) another product with the same active ingredient is not deemed clinically superior. AeroVanc has also received Qualified Infectious Disease Product (QIDP) status extending market exclusivity by an additional five years in addition to any other exclusivity obtained in the United States.. The industries in which we operate (biopharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical, biotechnology and pharmaceutical) are highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant change. Developments by others may render potential application of any of our product candidates in a particular indication obsolete or noncompetitive, even prior to completion of its development and approval for that indication. If successfully developed and approved, we expect our product candidates will face competition. We may not be able to compete successfully against organizations with competitive products, particularly large pharmaceutical companies. Many of our potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than us, and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture, market and distribute products. Many of these companies operate large, well-funded research, development and commercialization programs, have extensive experience in nonclinical and clinical studies, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing products, and have multiple products that have been approved or are in late-stage development. These advantages may enable them to receive approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency before us and prevent us from competing due to their orphan drug protections. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Furthermore, heightened awareness on the part of academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations of the potential commercial value of their inventions have led them to actively seek to commercialize the technologies they develop, which increases competition for investment in our programs. Competitive products may be more effective, easier to dose, or more effectively marketed and sold, than ours, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue.. We are subject to uncertainty relating to healthcare reform measures and reimbursement policies that, if not favorable to our products, could hinder or prevent our products' commercial success, if any of our product candidates are approved.. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party payer coverage and reimbursement could negatively affect the market acceptance of our product candidates and the future revenues we may expect to receive from those products. The commercial success of our product candidates, if approved, will depend on the extent to which the costs of such products will be covered by third-party payers, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and other organizations. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices and examining the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, in addition to their safety and efficacy. These challenges to prices may be problematic to us since our products are targeted for a small number of patients (those suffering from orphan diseases) thus requiring us to charge very high prices in order to recover development costs and achieve a profit on our revenue. If these third-party payers do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other therapies, we may not obtain coverage for our products after approval as a benefit under the third-party payers' plans or, even if we do, the level of coverage or payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis.. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status for newly approved drug products, including coding, coverage and payment. There is no uniform policy requirement for coverage and reimbursement for drug products among third-party payers in the United States, therefore coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payer to payer. The coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payer separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate payment will be applied consistently or obtained. The process for determining whether a payer will cover and how much it will reimburse a product may be separate from the process of seeking approval of the product or for setting the price of the product. Even if reimbursement is provided, market acceptance of our products may be adversely affected if the amount of payment for our products proves to be unprofitable for healthcare providers or less profitable than alternative treatments or if administrative burdens make our products less desirable to use. Third-party payer reimbursement to providers of our products, if approved, may be subject to a bundled payment that also includes the procedure of administering our products or third-party payers may require providers to perform additional patient testing to justify the use of our products. To the extent there is no separate payment for our product(s), there may be further uncertainty as to the adequacy of reimbursement amounts.. The continuing efforts of governments, private insurance companies, and other organizations to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect:. •  our ability to set an appropriate price for our products;. •  the rate and scope of adoption of our products by healthcare providers;. •  our ability to generate revenue or achieve or maintain profitability;. 50. •  the future revenue and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and. •  our access to additional capital.. Our ability to successfully commercialize our products will depend on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish what we believe are appropriate coverage and reimbursement for our products. The containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of federal and state governments worldwide and the prices of drug products have been a focus in this effort. For example, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs and President Trump has stated that reducing drug pricing is a priority for his administration. We expect that federal, state and local governments in the United States, as well as in other countries, will continue to consider legislation directed at lowering the total cost of healthcare. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of drug products is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable or insufficient. It is uncertain whether and how future legislation, whether domestic or abroad, could affect prospects for our product candidates or what actions federal, state, or private payers for healthcare treatment and services may take in response to any such healthcare reform proposals or legislation. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures reforms may prevent or limit our ability to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our product candidates, especially in light of our plans to price our product candidates at a high level.. Furthermore, we expect that healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future are unpredictable, and the potential impact on our operations and financial position is uncertain, but may result in more rigorous coverage criteria, lower reimbursement, and additional downward pressure on the price we may receive for approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government-funded programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability or commercialize our products, if approved.. We face potential product liability exposure and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product or product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. In the future, we anticipate that we will need to obtain additional or increased product liability insurance coverage and it is uncertain whether such increased or additional insurance coverage can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. Our business (in particular, the use of our product candidates in clinical studies and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval) will expose us to product liability risks. Product liability claims might be brought against us by patients, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or involved in the use of our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against any such claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •  decreased demand for our products and loss of revenue;. •  impairment of our business reputation;. •  delays in enrolling patients to participate in our clinical studies;. •  withdrawal of clinical study participants;. •  a \"clinical hold,\" suspension or termination of a clinical study or amendments to a study design;. •  significant costs of related litigation;. •  substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; and. •  the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates.. We maintain limited product liability insurance for our clinical studies, but our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses.. We expect that we will expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates, but we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially acceptable terms or may not be able to maintain such insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against potential losses. Large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drug products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product. 51. liability claim or series of claims brought against us, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could consume a significant portion of our cash and adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our stock price is expected to continue to be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been and is expected to continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include:. •  our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, and delays or failures to obtain such approvals;. •  failure to meet or exceed any financial and development projections that we may provide to the public;. •  failure to meet or exceed the financial and development projections of the investment community;. •  failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success;. •  failure to maintain our existing third party license and supply agreements;. •  failure by us or our licensors to prosecute, maintain, or enforce our intellectual property rights;. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates;. •  any inability to obtain adequate supply of our product candidates or the inability to do so at acceptable prices;. •  adverse regulatory authority decisions;. •  introduction of new products, services, or technologies by our competitors;. •  if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinions regarding our business and stock;. •  failure to obtain sufficient capital to fund our business objectives;. •  sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future;. •  trading volume of our common stock;. •  the perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators, and the investment community;. •  announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by us or our competitors;. •  disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation;. •  changes in the market valuations of similar companies;. •  general market or macroeconomic conditions;. •  announcements by commercial partners or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. •  adverse publicity relating to the CF market generally, including with respect to other products and potential products in such markets;. •  the introduction of technological innovations or new therapies that compete with potential products of the combined organization;. •  changes in the structure of health care payment systems; and. •  period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results.. 52. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation.. We will incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies.. We will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company prior to the Merger, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We will also incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq. These rules and regulations are expected to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, our management team consists of certain officers prior to the Merger whom have not previously managed and operated a public company. These officers and other personnel will need to devote substantial time to gaining expertise regarding operations as a public company and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. These rules and regulations may also make it difficult and expensive for us to obtain directors' and officers' liability insurance. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and cause our business or stock price to suffer.. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We expect to retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be stockholders' sole source of gain, if any, for the foreseeable future.. Because the Merger likely has resulted in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code, our pre-merger net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes will be subject to limitation. The net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may also be subject to limitations as a result of ownership changes.. If a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Sections 381, 382, and 383 of the Code, the corporation's net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes arising from before the ownership change are subject to limitations on use after the ownership change. In general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in the corporation's equity ownership by certain stockholders that exceeds fifty percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. The Merger likely resulted in an ownership change for us and, accordingly, our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes with respect to the pre-closing period will be subject to limitations on use. The Merger likely has resulted in an ownership change for us, in which case, our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes would also be subject to limitations. Additional ownership changes in the future could result in additional limitations on our net operating loss carryforwards. Consequently, even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of its net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes, which could have a material adverse effect on cash flow and results of operations."
