[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. If the bank regulators impose limitations on our commercial real estate lending activities, our earnings could be adversely affected.. In 2006, the FDIC, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (collectively, the \"Agencies\") issued joint guidance entitled \"Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices\" (the \"CRE Guidance\"). Although the CRE Guidance did not establish specific lending limits, it provides that a bank's commercial real estate lending exposure may receive increased supervisory scrutiny where total non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, including loans secured by apartment buildings, investor commercial real estate and construction and land loans, represent 300% or more of an institution's total risk-based capital and the outstanding balance of the commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the preceding 36 months. Our level of non-owner occupied commercial real estate equaled 347% of Bank total risk-based capital at December 31, 2017.. In December 2015, the Agencies released a new statement on prudent risk management for commercial real estate lending (the \"2015 Statement\"). In the 2015 Statement, the Agencies express concerns about easing commercial real estate underwriting standards, direct financial institutions to maintain underwriting discipline and exercise risk management practices to identify, measure and monitor lending risks, and indicate that the Agencies will continue \"to pay special attention\" to commercial real estate lending activities and concentrations going forward. If the FDIC, the Bank's primary federal regulator were to impose restrictions on the amount of commercial real estate loans we can hold in our portfolio, or require higher capital ratios as a result of the level of commercial real estate loans we hold, our earnings would be adversely affected.. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses.. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance.  Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations.  In addition to periodic reviews by an independent loan review function, risks within the loan portfolio are analyzed on a continuous basis by management and by the Board of Directors.  A risk system, consisting of multiple-grading categories, is utilized as an analytical tool to assess risk and the appropriate level of loss reserves.  Along with the risk system, management further evaluates risk characteristics of the loan portfolio under current economic conditions and considers such factors as the financial condition of the borrowers, past and expected loan loss experience and other factors management feels deserve recognition in establishing an adequate reserve.  This risk assessment process is performed at least quarterly and any necessary adjustments are realized in the periods in which they become known.  The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates.  State and federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses and have in the past required an increase in our allowance for loan losses.  Although we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable and reasonably estimated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not further increase the allowance for loan losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance.  Either of these occurrences could adversely affect our earnings.. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will be negatively impacted.. At December 31, 2017, our non-performing assets (\"NPAs\") (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, performing troubled debt restructurings and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $9.2 million, which was a decrease of $120 thousand or 1.3% from December 31, 2016.  However, we can give no assurance that our NPAs will continue to decrease and we may experience increases in NPAs in the future.  Our NPAs adversely affect our net income in various ways.  We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned.  We must reserve for estimated credit losses, which are established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, if appropriate, we must write down the. 9. value of properties in the other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values.  Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs, including taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned.  Further, the resolution of NPAs requires the active involvement of management, potentially distracting them from the overall supervision of our operations and other income-producing activities.. Our earnings may not grow if we are unable to successfully attract core deposits and lending opportunities and exploit opportunities to generate fee-based income.. We have experienced growth, and our future business strategy is to continue to expand.  Historically, the growth of our loans and deposits has been the principal factor in our increase in net-interest income.  In the event that we are unable to execute our business strategy of continued growth in loans and deposits, our earnings could be adversely impacted.  Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market share, to successfully attract core deposits and identify loan and investment opportunities, as well as opportunities to generate fee-based income.  Our ability to manage growth successfully will also depend on whether we can continue to efficiently fund asset growth and maintain asset quality and cost controls, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest-rate trends.. We do not have any control over the commissions our insurance business expects to earn on the sale of insurance products, which are based on premiums and commission rates set by insurers and the conditions prevalent in the insurance market.. The revenues of our fee-based insurance business are derived primarily from commissions from the sale of insurance policies, which commissions are generally calculated as a percentage of the policy premium.  Commission rates and premiums can change based on the prevailing economic and competitive factors that affect insurance underwriters.  In addition, the insurance industry has been characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity and periods of favorable premium levels due to shortages of capacity. We cannot predict the timing or extent of future changes in commission rates or premiums or the effect any of these changes will have on the operations of our insurance business.. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities.  Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.  In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits, which will result in a decrease of our net interest income.. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates.  Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities.  Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs.  Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities.. Certain of our intangible assets may become impaired in the future.. Intangible assets are tested for impairment on a periodic basis. Impairment testing incorporates the current market price of our common stock, the estimated fair value of our assets and liabilities, and certain information of similar companies. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in a decline in value of our intangibles, which may be less than the carrying value, which may adversely affect our financial condition.  If we determine that impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangibles will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the results of impairment testing on our intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels.. We operate in a highly-regulated environment and are subject to extensive government supervision and regulation that affects our operations and may adversely impact our business.. We are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation that govern nearly all aspects of our operations and can have a material impact on our business.  Financial regulatory authorities have significant discretion regarding the supervision, regulation and enforcement of banking laws and regulations.. Banking and insurance laws, regulations and policies are subject to amendment by Congress, the State of New Jersey and federal and state financial regulatory agencies.  Changes to statutes, regulations or policies, including changes in the. 10. administrative interpretation of regulations or policies, could materially impact our business.  These changes could impose additional costs on us and limit the types of financial products and services that we may offer our customers.  Compliance with laws and regulations can be difficult and costly, and changes to laws and regulations often impose significant compliance costs.  Failure to comply with any laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by financial regulatory agencies, including civil money penalties, private lawsuits or reputational damage, any of which could adversely affect our business or results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations, there can be no assurance that violations will not occur.  See  \"Supervision and Regulation\" in ITEM 1. Business.. Since the 2008 global financial crisis, financial institutions have been subject to increased scrutiny from Congress, state legislatures and federal and state financial regulatory agencies.  The Dodd-Frank Act, among other laws and regulations, has increased our costs of doing business and resulted in decreased revenues and net income.  Several mandates of the Dodd-Frank Act are still subject to further rulemaking and could  have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment and our ability to conduct business.  We cannot provide assurance that future changes in laws, regulations and policies will not adversely affect our business.. State and federal financial regulatory agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including for compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations may adversely affect our business.. Federal and state financial regulatory agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations.  If, as a result of an examination, an agency were to determine that the financial, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or violates any law or regulation, federal financial agencies may take several different remedial or enforcement actions it deems appropriate to correct any deficiency.  Such actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in the bank's capital, to restrict the bank's growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against the bank's officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if the FDIC concludes that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. The Department, as the supervisory and regulatory authority for state-chartered banks, has similar enforcement powers with respect to our banking business and insurance agency.  The CFPB has the authority to take enforcement actions, including cease-and-desist orders or civil monetary penalties against us if it finds that we offer consumer financial products and services in violation of federal consumer financial protection laws.. If we were unable to comply with future regulatory directives, or if we were unable to comply with the terms of any future supervisory requirements to which we may become subject, then we could become subject to a variety of supervisory actions and orders, including cease and desist orders, prompt corrective actions, MOUs, and/or other regulatory enforcement actions.  If our financial regulators were to take such supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to greater restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or both.  Failure to implement remedial measures as required by financial regulatory agencies could result in additional orders or penalties from federal and state regulators, which could result in one or more of the remedial actions described above.  The terms of any supervisory action and associated consequences with any failure to comply with any supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility and overall financial condition.. There is a risk that we may not be repaid in a timely manner, or at all, for loans we make.. The risk of non-payment (or deferred or delayed payment) of loans is inherent in commercial banking.  Such non-payment, or delayed or deferred payment of loans to us, if they occur, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition.  Additionally, in compliance with applicable banking laws and regulations, we maintain an allowance for loan losses created through charges against earnings.  As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses was $7.3 million.  Our marketing focus on small to medium-size businesses may result in the assumption by us of certain lending risks that are different from or greater than those which would apply to loans made to larger companies.  We seek to minimize our credit risk exposure through credit controls, which include evaluation of potential borrowers' available collateral, liquidity and cash flow.  However, there can be no assurance that such procedures will actually reduce loan losses.. 11. We are in competition with many other financial service providers, including larger commercial banks which have greater resources than us.. The banking industry within our trade area is highly competitive.  Our principal market area is also served by branch offices of large commercial banks and thrift institutions.  In addition,  the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 permits other financial entities, such as insurance companies and securities firms, to acquire or form financial institutions, thereby further increasing competition.  A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to expend upon advertising and marketing, and their substantially greater capitalization enables them to make much larger loans.  Our success depends upon our ability to serve small business clients in a more responsive manner than the large and mid-size financial institutions against whom we compete in our principal market area. In addition to competition from larger institutions, we also face competition for individuals and small businesses from recently formed banks seeking to compete as \"home town\" institutions.  Most of these new institutions have focused their marketing efforts on the smaller end of the small business market we serve.. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services.. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team.  The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel.  We have employment agreements and/or change in control agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,  Chief Banking Officer, Market Executive and Chief Executive Officer of Tri-State, and the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy.. Changes in local economic conditions could adversely affect our loan portfolio.. Our success depends to a great extent upon the general economic conditions of the local markets that we serve.  Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services primarily to customers in the New Jersey and New York markets in which we have branches, so any decline in the economy of this specific region could have an adverse impact on us.. The ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, our financial results, the credit quality of our existing loan portfolio, and the ability to generate new loans with acceptable yield and credit characteristics may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, changes in interest rates, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government.  We cannot assure you that negative trends or developments would not have a significant adverse effect on us.. We cannot predict how changes in technology will impact our business.. The financial services market, including banking services, is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, automation, internet-based banking, telephone banking, and debit cards and so-called \"smart cards.\". Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend on whether we can anticipate and respond to technological changes.  To develop these and other new technologies, we will likely have to make additional capital investments.  Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources or access to the necessary proprietary technology to remain competitive in the future.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business.  Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer-relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed.  The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 12"
