[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are material risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this report and that could individually, or in combination, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities.  In addition to the risks described below, you should consider our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this report, including our separate section above, \"CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS.\". Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. The truckload and transportation industry is affected by economic and business risks that are largely beyond our control.. The truckload industry is highly cyclical, and our business is dependent on a number of factors that may have a negative impact on our operating results, many of which are beyond our control. A substantial portion of our freight is from customers in the general merchandise and consumer products goods industries. As such, our volumes are largely dependent on consumer spending and retail sales and our results may be more susceptible to trends in unemployment and retail sales than carriers that do not have this concentration.. We believe that some of the most significant factors beyond our control that may negatively impact our operating results are economic changes that affect supply and demand in transportation markets, such as:. •     recessionary economic cycles, such as the period from 2007 to 2009;. •     changes in customers' inventory levels, including shrinking product/package sizes, and in the availability of funding for. their working capital;. •     commercial (Class A) driver shortages;. •     industry compliance with an ongoing regulatory environment;. •     excess truck capacity in comparison with shipping demand; and. •     downturns in customers' business cycles, which may be caused by declines in consumer spending.. The risks associated with these factors are heightened when the United States economy is weakened. Some of the principal risks during such times are as follows:. •     low overall freight levels, which may impair our asset utilization;. •     customers with credit issues and cash flow problems. •  changing freight patterns resulting from redesigned supply chains, resulting in an imbalance between our capacity and customer demand;. •  customers bidding out freight or selecting competitors that offer lower rates, in an attempt to lower their costs, forcing us to lower our rates or lose freight; and. •     more unbilled miles incurred to obtain loads.. Economic conditions that decrease shipping demand or increase the supply of capacity in the truckload transportation industry can exert downward pressure on rates and equipment utilization, thereby decreasing asset productivity. Declining freight levels and rates, a prolonged recession or general economic instability could result in declines in our results of operations, which declines may be material.. We also are subject to cost increases outside our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, fuel and energy prices, driver wages, taxes and interest rates, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance premiums, regulations, revenue equipment and related. 11. Table of Contents. maintenance costs and healthcare and other benefits for our associates. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any such cost increase or event could occur. Any such cost increase or event could adversely affect our profitability.. In addition, events outside our control, such as strikes or other work stoppages at our facilities or at customer, port, border or other shipping locations, weather, actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against a foreign state or group located in a foreign state or heightened security requirements could lead to reduced economic demand, reduced availability of credit or temporary closing of shipping locations or United States borders. Such events or enhanced security measures in connection with such events could impair our operations and result in higher operating costs.. The truckload and transportation industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which subjects us to competitive pressures pertaining to pricing, capacity and service.. Our operating segments compete with many truckload carriers, some LTL carriers, railroads, logistics, brokerage, freight forwarding and other transportation companies. The North American surface transportation market is highly competitive and fragmented. Some of our customers may use their own private fleets rather than outsourcing loads to us. Some of our competitors may have greater access to equipment, a larger fleet, a wider range of services, preferential dedicated customer contracts, greater capital resources or other competitive advantages. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain or improve our profitability. These factors include the following:. •  Many of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth in the economy. This may make it difficult for us to maintain or increase freight rates, or may require us to reduce our freight rates. Additionally, it may limit our ability to maintain or expand our business.. •  We expanded our presence in the First to Final Mile market through our acquisition of WSL in 2016. This is a difficult to serve market and we face competition in this market from competitors that have operated in this market for several years, which may hinder our ability to compete and gain market share.. •  Since some of our customers also operate their own private trucking fleets, they may decide to transport more of their own freight.. •  Some shippers have selected core carriers for their shipping needs, for which we may not be selected.. •  Many customers periodically solicit bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, despite the existence of dedicated contracts, which may depress freight rates or result in a loss of business to our competitors.. •  The continuing trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may result in more large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages, with which we may have difficulty competing.. •  Higher fuel prices and higher fuel surcharges to our customers may cause some of our customers to consider freight transportation alternatives, including rail transportation.. •  Advancements in technology may necessitate that we increase investments in order to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher freight rates to cover the cost of these investments.. •  Competition from freight logistics and brokerage companies may negatively impact our customer relationships and freight rates.. •  Smaller carriers may build economies of scale with procurement aggregation providers, which may improve such carriers' abilities to compete with us.. We may not be able to effectively manage and implement our organic growth strategies.. While we currently believe we can grow our profits and cash flows organically through further penetration of existing customers and by expanding our customer base, we may not be able to effectively and successfully implement such strategies and realize our stated goals. Our goals may be negatively affected by a failure to further penetrate our existing customer base, cross-sell our service offerings, pursue new customer opportunities, manage the operations and expenses of new or growing service offerings or otherwise achieve growth of our service offerings. Successful execution of our business strategies may not result in us achieving our current business goals.. Our businesses depend on our strong reputation and the value of the Schneider brand.. We believe that the Schneider brand name symbolizes high-quality service, reliability and efficiency, and is one of our most important and valuable assets. The Schneider brand name and our corporate reputation are significant sales and marketing tools, and we devote substantial resources to promoting and protecting them. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to activities by our associates, contractors or agents, such as accidents, customer service mishaps or noncompliance with laws, could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. With the increased use of social media outlets such as Facebook, YouTube, Instagram and Twitter, adverse publicity can be disseminated quickly and broadly, making it increasingly difficult for us to effectively respond. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand.. 12. Table of Contents. We have several major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A significant portion of our operating revenue is generated from a limited number of major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In 2017, we had one customer from whom we generated revenues slightly in excess of 10% of our total revenues. Economic and capital markets conditions may adversely affect our customers and their ability to remain solvent. Our customers' financial difficulties can negatively impact our business and operating results and financial condition. Generally, we do not have contractual relationships with our customers that guarantee any minimum volumes, and our customer relationships may not continue as presently in effect. We generally do not have longterm contractual relationships with our customers, including our dedicated customers, and certain of these contracts contain clauses that permit cancellation on a short-term basis without cause, and accordingly any of our customers may not continue to utilize our services, renew our existing contracts or continue at the same volume levels. Despite the existence of contract arrangements with our customers, certain of our customers may nonetheless engage in competitive bidding processes that could negatively impact our contractual relationship. In addition, certain of our major customers may increasingly use their own truckload and delivery fleets, which would reduce our freight volumes. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Our profitability may be materially adversely impacted if our capital investments do not match customer demand for invested resources or if there is a decline in the availability of funding sources for these investments.. Our operations require significant investments. The amount and timing of capital investments depend on various factors, including anticipated volume levels and the price and availability of assets. If anticipated demand differs materially from actual usage, our capital-intensive truckload segment may have too much or too little capacity. Moreover, across our three reportable segments resource requirements vary with customer demand, which may be subject to seasonal or general economic conditions. Our ability to properly select freight and adapt to changes in customer transportation requirements is important to efficiently deploy resources and make capital investments in trucks, trailers, containers and chassis (with respect to our truckload and intermodal segments) or obtain qualified third-party capacity at a reasonable price (with respect to our logistics segment).. We may not be able to successfully implement our company enterprise strategy of diversifying our revenue base and expanding our capabilities.. Our company enterprise strategy entails selectively diversifying our revenue base, as we have done, by entering the over-dimensional consumer freight market, increasingly becoming part of the e-commerce supply chain and growing our market share in specialty equipment services. This strategy involves certain risks, and we may not overcome these risks, in which case our business, financial position and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In connection with our company enterprise strategy, we have in the past made selective acquisitions, made new investments in technology and in office, service and warehouse centers, increased sales and marketing efforts and hired new drivers and associates. We expect to continue to pursue our company enterprise strategy, and this exposes us to certain risks, including:. •  making significant capital expenditures, which could require substantial capital and cash flow that we may not have or may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms;. •  growth may strain our management, capital resources, information systems and customer service;. •  hiring new managers, drivers and other associates, including in specialty equipment services, may increase training and compliance costs and may result in temporary inefficiencies until those associates become proficient in their jobs;. •  specialty transport of bulk chemicals and other hazardous materials, which subjects us to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations by governmental authorities and, in the event of an accidental release of these commodities, could result in significant loss of life and extensive property damage as well as environmental remediation obligations; and. •  expanding our service offerings may require us to encounter new competitive challenges in markets in which we have not previously operated or with which we are unfamiliar.. Fluctuations in the price or availability of fuel, the volume and terms of diesel fuel purchase commitments and surcharge collection may increase our costs of operation, which could materially and adversely affect our margins.. Fuel represents a significant expense for us. Diesel fuel prices fluctuate greatly due to factors beyond our control, such as political events, terrorist activities, armed conflicts, depreciation of the dollar against other currencies and weather, such as hurricanes, and other natural or man-made disasters, each of which may lead to an increase in the cost of fuel. Fuel prices also are affected by the rising demand in developing countries, and could be adversely impacted by diminished drilling activity and by the use of crude oil and oil reserves for other purposes. Such events may lead not only to increases in fuel prices, but also to fuel shortages and disruptions in the fuel supply chain. Because our operations are dependent upon diesel fuel, and a portion of our business is based on fuel purchased on the spot market at prevailing market rates, significant diesel fuel cost increases,. shortages or supply disruptions could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Increases in fuel costs, to the extent not offset by rate per mile increases or fuel surcharges, have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability. While a portion of our fuel costs are covered by pass-through provisions in customer contracts and. 13. Table of Contents. compensatory fuel surcharge programs, we also incur fuel costs that cannot be recovered even with respect to customers with which we maintain fuel surcharge programs, such as those associated with unbilled miles, or the time when our engines are idling. Because our fuel surcharge recovery lags behind changes in fuel prices, our fuel surcharge recovery may not capture the increased costs we pay for fuel, especially when prices are rising, leading to fluctuations in our levels of reimbursement. Our levels of reimbursement have fluctuated in the past. Further, during periods of low freight volumes, shippers can use their negotiating leverage to impose less compensatory fuel surcharge policies. In addition, the terms of each customer's fuel surcharge agreement vary, and customers may seek to modify the terms of their fuel surcharge agreements to minimize recoverability for fuel price increases. Such fuel surcharges may not be maintained indefinitely or may not be sufficiently effective. As of December 31, 2017, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations.. Difficulties attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including through owner-operators, could materially adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain or grow our fleet.. Like many truckload carriers, from time to time we may experience difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers, including through owner-operators, and driver shortages may recur in the future. Our challenge with attracting and retaining qualified drivers stems from intense market competition and our driver quality standards, which subjects us to increased payments for driver compensation and owner-operator contracted rates. Our specialty equipment services require special training to handle unique operating requirements. We use physical function tests and hair follicle and urine testing to screen and test all driver applicants, which we believe is a rigorous standard relative to others in our industry and could decrease the pool of qualified applicants available to us. Failure to recruit high-quality, safe drivers that meet our testing standards could diminish the safety of our fleet and could have a materially adverse effect on our customer relationships and our business.. Our company drivers are generally compensated on a per-mile basis, and the rate per-mile generally increases with the drivers' length of service. Owner-operators contracting with us are generally compensated on a percentage of revenue basis. The compensation we offer our drivers and owner-operators is also subject to market conditions and labor supply. We may in future periods increase company driver and owner-operator compensation, which will be more likely to the extent that economic conditions improve and industry regulation exacerbates driver shortages forcing driver compensation higher. The electronic logging device regulations that recently became effective are expected to further tighten the market for eligible drivers. Like most in our industry, we suffer from a high voluntary turnover rate of company drivers, especially in the first 90 days of employment. Our turnover rate requires us to continually recruit a substantial number of company drivers in order to operate our revenue-producing fleet equipment, including trucks, chassis and specialty equipment. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain a sufficient number of high-quality company drivers, and contract with suitable owner-operators, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which could adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain our size or grow.. Our use of owner-operators to provide a portion of our truck fleet exposes us to different risks than we face with our owned trucks.. We may contract with more owner-operators and use more owner-operator trucks than some of our competitors. We are therefore more dependent on owner-operator trucks than some of our competitors. Failure to maintain owner-operator business and relationships and increased industry competition for owner-operators could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results.. During times of increased economic activity, we face heightened competition for owner-operators from other carriers. To the extent our turnover increases, we may be required to increase owner-operator compensation or take other measures to remain an attractive option for owner-operators. If we cannot attract sufficient owner-operators, or it becomes economically difficult for owner-operators to continue in business, we may not be able to maintain the percentage of our fleet provided by owner-operators or maintain our delivery schedules.. We provide financing to certain qualified owner-operators who qualify for financing in order to lease trucks from us. If we are unable to provide such financing in the future, due to liquidity constraints or other restrictions, we may experience a decrease in the number of owner-operators available to fully operate our assets. Further, if owner-operators operating the trucks we finance default under or otherwise terminate the financing arrangement and we are unable to find a replacement owner-operator, we may incur losses on amounts owed to us with respect to the truck in addition to any losses we may incur as a result of idling the truck.. Our lease contracts with owner-operators are governed by federal and other leasing regulations, which impose specific requirements on us and owner-operators. It is possible that we could face lawsuits alleging the violation of leasing obligations or failure to follow the contractual terms, which could result in liability.. 14. Table of Contents. We utilize owner-operators to complete our services. These owner-operators are subject to similar regulation requirements, such as the electronic on-board recording and driver HOS requirements that apply to larger carriers, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. Aside from when these third parties may use our trailing equipment to fulfill loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. The inability to obtain reliable third-party owner-operators could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth.. We depend on railroads in the operation of our intermodal business and therefore our ability to offer intermodal services could be limited if we experience instability from third parties we use in that business.. Our intermodal segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. The majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. While we have agreements with a number of Class I railroads, the majority of our business travels on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNSF) and the CSX Transportation (CSX) railways, with which we have established relationships. One of our competitors has a preferential contractual arrangement with BNSF, which limits the market share and relative profitability of the services we provide through BNSF. Our contracts with the railroads are subject to periodic renewal, and there is no guarantee that our negotiations to renew the contracts will be successful.  Our intermodal business may be affected by any adverse change to relationships with railroad service providers.. Pricing arrangements with these Class I Railroads generally permit pricing to be adjusted based on market conditions and an adverse change in future market conditions could adversely affect pricing. In addition, a material change in our relationship with, or the overall service levels provided by, these railroads, or our inability to utilize one or more of these railroads, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Future declines in overall service and volume levels provided by these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our intermodal segment. In addition, a portion of the freight we deliver through both our intermodal and trucking segments is imported to the United States through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. Work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on third-party capacity providers for logistics brokerage business, and service instability from these providers could limit growth and profitability of our logistics segment, which could adversely affect our revenue, operating results and customer relationships.. Our brokerage business is dependent upon the services of third-party capacity providers, including other truckload carriers. These third-party providers may seek other freight opportunities and may require increased compensation in times of improved freight demand or tight trucking capacity. Our third-party truckload carriers may also be affected by certain factors to which our drivers and owner-operators are subject, including, but not limited to, driver shortage, alternative employment opportunities, varying freight market conditions, high capital expenditures and trucking industry regulations. Most of our third-party capacity provider transportation services contracts are cancelable on a short-term basis without cause. Our inability to secure the services of these third parties, or increases in the prices we must pay to secure such services, could have an adverse effect on our operations and profitability to the extent we are not able to obtain corresponding customer rate increases.. If our third-party logistics customers are able to reduce their total cost structure and improve their internal logistics operations and transportation services, our third-party logistics business and operating results may be materially adversely effected.. A major driver for customers to use third-party logistics providers instead of their own personnel is their inherent high cost and difficulty in attaining logistics expertise and operational efficiencies. Our third-party logistics service is generally able to provide such services more efficiently than otherwise could be provided \"in-house,\" primarily as a result of our technological efficiencies, lower and more flexible associate cost structure and our existing industry relationships and expertise. If, however, our third-party logistics customers are able to reduce their in-house logistics cost structures, especially by reducing associate costs, we may not be able to provide our customers with an attractive alternative for their logistics needs and our third-party logistics business and operating results may be materially adversely affected.. Difficulty in obtaining material, equipment, goods, and services from our vendors and suppliers could adversely affect our business.. We are dependent upon our suppliers for certain products and materials, including our trucks, trailers, chassis and containers. We believe that we have positive relationships with our vendors and suppliers and are generally able to obtain favorable pricing and other terms from such parties. If we fail to maintain these relationships with our vendors and suppliers, or if our vendors and suppliers are unable to provide the products and materials we need or undergo financial hardship, we could experience difficulty in obtaining needed goods and services because of production interruptions, limited material availability or other reasons. Subsequently, our business and operations could be adversely affected.. 15. Table of Contents. If we are unable to recruit, develop, and retain our key associates, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected.. We are highly dependent upon the services of certain key employees, including our team of executive officers and managers. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and the loss of any of their services could negatively impact our operations and future profitability. Inadequate succession planning or unexpected departure of key executive officers could cause substantial disruption to our business operations, deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. Additionally, we must continue to recruit, develop and retain skilled and experienced service center managers if we are to realize our goal of expanding our operations and continuing our growth, including internationally. Failure to recruit, develop and retain a core group of service center managers could have a materially adverse effect on our. business.. Efforts by labor unions could divert management's attention and could have a materially adverse effect on our operating results.. We face the risk that Congress or one or more states will approve legislation significantly affecting our business and our relationship with our associates, such as the previously proposed federal legislation referred to as the Employee Free Choice Act, which would substantially liberalize the procedures for union organization. We also face the risk that our associates, including drivers, may attempt to organize. Currently, eleven of our company drivers are members of an organized labor union as a result of a commitment from the 1980s to allow this group of drivers to finish their careers with Schneider. Any attempt to organize by our associates could result in increased legal and other associated costs. In addition, if we were to enter into a. collective bargaining agreement, the terms could negatively affect our costs, efficiency and ability to generate acceptable returns on the affected operations. Moreover, any labor disputes or work stoppages, whether or not our other associates unionize, could disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues.. Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings.. Our future insurance and claims expense might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We self-insure or maintain a high deductible for a portion of our claims exposure resulting from workers' compensation, auto liability, general liability, cargo and property damage claims, as well as associate health insurance. Estimating the number and severity of claims, as well as related judgment or settlement amounts is inherently difficult. This, along with legal expenses, incurred but not reported claims and other uncertainties can cause unfavorable differences between actual claim costs and our reserve estimates. We reserve for anticipated losses and expenses and periodically evaluate and adjust our claims reserves to reflect our experience. However, ultimate results may differ from our estimates, which could result in losses over our reserved amounts.. We maintain insurance with licensed insurance carriers above the amounts which we retain. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover reasonably expected claims, it is possible that the amount of one or more claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. If any claim were to exceed our coverage, we would bear the excess, in addition to our other self-insured/retained amounts. Insurance carriers have raised premiums for many businesses, including transportation companies. As a result, our insurance and claims expense could increase, or we could raise our self-insured retention or deductible when our policies are renewed or replaced. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if (1) cost per claim, premiums, or the number of claims significantly exceeds our estimates, (2) we experience a claim in excess of our coverage limits, (3) our insurance carriers fail to pay on our insurance claims or (4) we. experience a claim for which coverage is not provided.. Insuring risk through our captive insurance company could adversely impact our operations.. We insure a significant portion of our risk through our wholly owned and consolidated captive insurance company, INS Insurance, Inc. (INS). In addition to insuring portions of our own risk, INS provides insurance coverage to owner-operators. Our captive insurance company accesses the reinsurance markets and may increase retention amounts to offset the insurance market pressures, which could expose us to volatility in claims expenses.. To comply with certain state insurance regulatory requirements, cash and cash equivalents must be paid to INS as capital investments and to cover insurance premiums, which deployed assets may be restricted as collateral for anticipated losses. In addition, we must deploy from our balance sheet the restricted cash used for payment of insured claims. In the future, we may continue to insure our risk through our captive insurance subsidiary, which may cause increases in the required amount of our restricted cash or other collateral, such as letters of credit. Significant increases in the amount of collateral required by third-party insurance carriers and regulators would reduce our liquidity and could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our captive insurance company is subject to substantial government regulation.. Our captive insurance company is domiciled in Vermont and regulated by state authorities. State regulations generally provide protection to policy holders, rather than shareholders, and generally involve:. •    approval of premium rates for insurance;. 16. Table of Contents. •     standards of solvency;. •     minimum amounts of statutory capital surplus that must be maintained;. •     limitations on types and amounts of investments;. •     regulation of dividend payments and other transactions between affiliates;. •     regulation of reinsurance;. •     regulation of underwriting and marketing practices;. •     approval of policy forms;. •     methods of accounting; and. •     filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition and other matters.. These regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance, limit our ability to change premiums, restrict our ability to access cash held in our captive insurance company and otherwise impede our ability to take actions we would otherwise take.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future federal or state regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to regulation at the federal level and at the state level. We may incur additional expenses associated with state wage, driver meal and rest break regulation such as that which has been enacted in California. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" In addition, we operate in the United States pursuant to federal operating authority granted by the DOT. Our company drivers and owner-operator drivers with whom we contract also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations of the DOT, implemented through the FMCSA, including those relating to CSA safety performance and measurements, drug and alcohol testing and HOS. Weight and equipment dimensions also are subject to government regulations. We also may become subject to new or more restrictive regulations relating to exhaust emissions, drivers' HOS, ergonomics, collective bargaining, security at ports and other matters affecting safety or operating methods. In addition, the rules regarding how carriers are assigned their \"safety fitness\" scores could change in a way that would increase the likelihood of carriers being determined to be unfit, which could adversely affect us, including our ability to maintain or grow our fleet as well as our customer relationships.  The FMCSA withdrew a proposed rulemaking on this topic in March 2017, but could propose similar rule changes in the future.. In December 2017, the FMCSA final rule requiring the use of electronic logging devices by nearly all carriers came into effect.  All of our trucks, including all the owner-operator trucks used by us, are currently equipped with EOBRs (electronic on-board recorders). Nonetheless, we believe this electronic logging device regulation may exacerbate the driver shortage, tighten truck capacity and disproportionately impact relatively smaller carriers by reducing available driving time. There can be no guarantee that despite our current fleet-wide use of EOBRs, that upon enforcement of the electronic logging device regulation we will be found by enforcement authorities to be compliant with the electronic logging device rule in all respects. Federal law also requires major freight and commuter railroads to install and maintain new safety technology known as Positive Train Control, which is complex and can be costly to implement, and therefore may adversely affect our railroad partners and in turn have a materially adverse effect on operating results of our intermodal business. In 2016, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and FMCSA proposed regulations that would require vehicles of a certain size to be equipped with a speed limiting device set to a speed to be specified. There can be no guarantee as to whether a final rule requiring speed limiting devices will be implemented, and if so the nature of any such rule and its impact on our fleet and operations.. In 2008 the State of California's Air Resources Board (ARB) approved the Heavy-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Reduction Regulation in efforts to reduce GHG emissions from certain long-haul tractor-trailers that operate in California by requiring them to utilize technologies that improve fuel efficiency (regardless of where the vehicle is registered). The regulation required owners of long-haul tractors and 53-foot trailers to replace or retrofit their vehicles with aerodynamic technologies and low rolling resistance tires. The regulation also contained certain emissions and registration standards for temperature controlled trailer operators. In December 2013, California's ARB approved regulations to align its GHG emission standards and test procedures, as well as its tractor-trailer GHG regulation, with the federal Phase 1 GHG regulation, which applied fuel efficiency standards to vehicles for model years 2014-2018.. In October 2016, the EPA and NHTSA published a Final Rule for Phase 2 of the GHG emissions and fuel efficiency standards for medium and heavy-duty engines and vehicles. The Final Rule, which became effective as of December 27, 2016, is expected by the EPA to lower CO2 emissions by 1.1 billion metric tons and reduce oil consumption by up to 2 billion barrels over the lifetime of vehicles sold under the Phase 2 program. First-time GHG and fuel efficiency standards for trailers will start in model year 2018 for EPA and model year 2021 for NHSTA, and CO2 and fuel consumption standards for combination tractors and engines (which are subject to individual and separate regulatory requirements) commence in model year 2021, increase incrementally in model year 2024, and achieve a fully phased-in requirement by model year 2027. EPA and. NHSTA expect that motor carriers will meet the increased standards through the use of technology improvements in multiple areas, including the engine, transmission, driveline, aerodynamic design, extended idle reduction technologies, and the use of. 17. Table of Contents. other accessories.  These regulations could adversely affect us by increasing the cost of new trucks, impairing productivity and increasing our operating expenses.. In addition to the United States, we also have the authority to operate in Mexico, various Canadian provinces and China. We, as well as our drivers and owner-operators, must comply with enacted governmental regulations regarding safety, equipment, environmental protection and operating methods. Examples include regulation of equipment weight, equipment dimensions, fuel emissions, driver HOS, driver eligibility requirements, on-board reporting of operations and ergonomics. We may also become subject to new or more restrictive regulations related to safety or operating methods, which could adversely affect our fleet and operations in those jurisdictions.. If current or future legislation or judicial decisions deem that independent contractors (owner-operators) or contingent workers are equivalent to employees, we would incur more employee-related expenses.. We face a complex and increasingly stringent regulatory and statutory scheme relating to wages, classification of employees and alternate work arrangements. Tax, federal and other regulatory authorities and private plaintiffs have argued that owner- operator drivers in the trucking and transportation industries are employees, rather than independent contractors. In April 2010, federal legislation was proposed that increased the recordkeeping requirements for companies that engage independent contractors and heightened the penalties to employers that misclassify individuals or violate overtime and/or wage requirements. There have been and may continue to be lawsuits concerning the appropriate worker classification of individuals that provide delivery services and the outcomes of such cases may be adverse to us. Further, class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us and others in our industry seeking to reclassify owner-operator drivers as employees for a variety of purposes, including workers' compensation and health care coverage. If any such cases are judicially determined in a manner adverse to us or our businesses, there could be an adverse impact on our operations in the effected jurisdictions. Taxing and other regulatory authorities and courts apply a variety of standards in their determination of independent contractor status. If the owner-operator drivers we contract with are deemed employees, we would incur additional exposure under laws for federal and state tax, workers' compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort. The exposure could include prior period compensation, as well as potential liability for employee benefits and tax withholdings.. Our operations in Mexico, Canada, and China, including our cross-border operations with Canada and Mexico, make us vulnerable to risks associated with doing business in foreign countries.. As a result of our operations in Mexico, Canada and China, including our cross-border intermodal operations with Canada and Mexico, we are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business abroad, including:. •  exposure to local economic and political conditions;. •  foreign exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls;. •  withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. •  difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights;. •  investment restrictions or requirements; and. •  export and import restrictions.. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our Customs Trade Partner Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), Free and Secure Trade (FAST) and Partners in Protection (PIP) status, we may have significant border delays. This could cause our Mexican and Canadian operations to be less efficient than those of competitor truckload carriers that have such status and operate in Mexico or Canada. We also face additional risks associated with our foreign operations, including restrictive trade policies and imposition of duties, taxes or government royalties imposed by the Mexican or Canadian government, to the extent not preempted by the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement. In addition, changes to the North American Free Trade Agreement or other treaties governing our business could adversely impact our international business. Failure to comply with trade compliance laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may subject us to liability.. Further changes in U.S. tax laws and regulations may impact our effective tax rate and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act had an impact on our net income for 2017 and is expected to affect our future effective tax rate.  We also have benefited from certain other tax provisions, such as those relating to capital expenditure deductions.  Further changes in the U.S. tax laws, including any changes related to capital expenditure deductions or any significant changes to federal tax rates, interest expense deductions, or the taxation of business entities, could have a material adverse effect on our growth opportunities, business, and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties.. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the hauling and handling of hazardous materials, waste and other oil, fuel storage tanks, air emissions from our vehicles and facilities, engine idling and discharge and retention. 18. Table of Contents. of storm water. Our truck terminals often are located in industrial areas where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination could occur. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage and hazardous waste disposal, among others. Certain of our facilities have waste oil or fuel storage tanks and fueling islands. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of hazardous substances we transport, if soil or groundwater contamination is found at our facilities or results from our operations, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable environmental laws or regulations, we could owe cleanup costs and incur related liabilities, including substantial fines or penalties or civil and criminal liability, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results.. EPA regulations limiting exhaust emissions became more restrictive in 2010. In 2010, an executive memorandum was signed directing the NHTSA and the EPA to develop new, stricter fuel efficiency standards for heavy trucks. In 2011, the NHTSA and the EPA adopted final rules that established the first-ever fuel economy and greenhouse gas standards for medium-and heavy-duty vehicles. These standards apply to model years 2014 to 2018, which are required to achieve an approximate 20 percent reduction in fuel consumption by model year 2018, and equates to approximately four gallons of fuel for every 100 miles traveled. In June 2015, the EPA and NHTSA jointly proposed new stricter standards that would apply to trailers beginning with model year 2018 and tractors beginning with model year 2021.. For information on other regulatory developments, see the risk factor titled, \"We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future federal or state regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our business.\". We have significant ongoing capital requirements that could affect our profitability if we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain financing on favorable terms.. The truckload industry generally, and our trucking and intermodal segments in particular, are capital intensive and asset heavy, and our policy of maintaining a young, technology-equipped fleet requires us to expend significant amounts in capital expenditures annually. We expect to pay for projected capital expenditures with cash flows from operations, proceeds from equity sales or financing available under our existing debt instruments. If we were unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, we would need to seek alternative sources of capital, including financing, to meet our capital requirements. In the event that we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or obtain financing on favorable terms in the future, we may have to limit our fleet size, enter into less favorable financing arrangements or operate our equipment for longer periods, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability.. We may need to obtain additional financing which may not be available or, if it is available, may result in a reduction in the percentage ownership of our then-existing shareholders.. We may need to raise additional funds in order to:. •     finance unanticipated working capital requirements or refinance existing indebtedness;. •     develop or enhance our technological infrastructure and our existing products and services;. •     fund strategic relationships;. •     respond to competitive pressures; and. •     acquire complementary businesses, technologies, products or services.. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion strategy, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance technology or services or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our then-existing shareholders may be reduced, and holders of these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our then-existing shareholders.. Our existing and future indebtedness could limit our flexibility in operating our business or adversely affect our business and our liquidity position.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $440.6 million in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness for borrowed money outstanding, consisting of $400.0 million outstanding under our senior notes, $29.8 million in equipment financing notes outstanding, and $10.8 million in obligations outstanding under capital leases.. Our indebtedness may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions. Any indebtedness we incur and restrictive covenants contained in the agreements related thereto could:. •  make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including making interest payments on our debt obligations;. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing to operate our business;. 19. Table of Contents. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our debt, reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund capital expenditures and working capital and other general operational requirements;. •  limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business;. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to some of our competitors that have less, or less restrictive, debt than us;. •  limit our ability to pursue acquisitions; and. •  increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates or a downturn in our business or the economy.. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results or cause a significant decrease in our liquidity and impair our ability to pay amounts due on our indebtedness. Significant repayment penalties may limit our flexibility.. In addition, our credit facility contains, among other things, restrictive covenants that limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The credit facility restricts, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness or issue guarantees, create liens on our assets make distributions on or redeem equity interests, make investments, transfer or sell properties or other assets and engage in mergers, consolidations or acquisitions. In addition, our credit facility requires us to meet specified financial ratios and tests.. The seasonal pattern generally experienced in the trucking industry may affect our periodic results during traditionally slower shipping periods and winter months.. In the trucking industry, revenue generally follows a seasonal pattern which may affect our operating results. We typically experience a seasonal surge in sales during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year as a result of holiday sales. After the December holiday season and during the remaining winter months, our freight volumes are typically lower because some customers reduce shipment levels. Our operating expenses have historically been higher in the winter months because of cold temperatures and other adverse winter weather conditions which result in decreased fuel efficiency, increased cold weather-related maintenance costs of revenue equipment and increased insurance and claims costs. Revenue can also be affected by adverse weather conditions, holidays and the number of business days during a given period because revenue is directly related to the available working days of shippers.. Severe weather and similar events could harm our results of operations or make our results more volatile.. From time to time, we may suffer impacts from severe weather and similar events, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, blizzards, ice storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, and explosions.  These events may disrupt freight shipments or routes, affect regional economies, destroy our assets, disrupt fuel supplies, increase fuel costs, cause lost revenue and productivity, increase our maintenance costs or adversely affect the business or financial condition of our customers, any of which could harm our results of operations or make our results of operations more volatile.. We are increasingly dependent on data networks and systems, including tracking and communications systems, and significant systems disruptions, including those caused by cybersecurity breaches, could adversely affect our business.. Our policy of increasingly using technology to improve productivity and reduce costs through our Quest platform means that our business is reliant on the efficient, stable and uninterrupted operation of our data networks and systems, including tracking and communications systems. Our computer systems and telematics technology are used in various aspects of our business, including load planning and receiving, dispatch of drivers and third-party capacity providers, freight and container tracking, customer billing and account monitoring, automation of tasks, producing financial and other reports and other general functions and purposes. We are currently dependent on a single vendor for asset management, driver communication and critical load planning data. If the stability or capability of such vendor is compromised, it could adversely affect our revenue, customer. service, driver turnover rates and data preservation. Additionally, if any of our critical information or communications systems fail or become unavailable, we could have to perform certain functions manually, which could temporarily affect the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations.. Our operations and those of our technology and communications service providers are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer viruses, malware, hacking and other events beyond our control. More sophisticated and frequent cyberattacks within the United States in recent years have also increased security risks associated with information technology systems. Although we maintain information security processes and policies to protect our information, computer systems and data from cybersecurity threats, breaches and other such events, we have experienced cyber-attacks in the past that we were able to mitigate without any material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In an attempt to reduce the risk of disruption to our business operations should a disaster occur, we have redundant computer systems and networks and the capability to deploy these backup systems from an off-site alternate location. We believe that any such disruption would be minimal, moderate or temporary. However, we cannot predict the likelihood or extent to which such alternate location or our information and communication systems would be affected. Our. 20. Table of Contents. business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of a system failure, disruption or security breach that causes a delay, interruption or impairment of our services and operations.. Historically we have not made a significant number of acquisitions and we may not make acquisitions in the future, or if we do, we may not be successful in integrating the acquired company, either of which could have a materially adverse effect on our business.. Historically, acquisitions have not been a significant part of our growth strategy. From 2008 to 2015 we did not complete any significant acquisitions. In 2016, we acquired WSL. We may not be successful in identifying, negotiating or consummating any acquisitions, and we may not successfully complete the integration of these businesses or achieve the synergies and operating results anticipated in connection with these acquisitions. The continuing trend toward consolidation in the trucking industry may result in the acquisitions of smaller carriers by large carriers that gain market share and other competitive advantages through such acquisitions. If we fail to make or successfully execute future acquisitions, our growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.. In addition, any acquisitions we undertake could involve numerous risks that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results, including:. •  difficulties in integrating the acquired company's operations and in realizing anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner that could result in substantial costs and delays or other operational, technical or financial problems;. •  challenges in achieving anticipated revenue, earnings or cash flows;. •  assumption of liabilities that may exceed our estimates or what was disclosed to us;. •  the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns;. •  the potential loss of customers, key associates and drivers of the acquired company;. •  difficulties operating in markets in which we have had no or only limited direct experience;. •  the incurrence of additional indebtedness; and. •  the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, which would dilute your ownership in the company.. We are subject to various claims and lawsuits in the ordinary course of business, and increases in the amount or severity of these claims and lawsuits could adversely affect us.. We are exposed to various claims and litigation related to commercial disputes, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability and other matters. Proceedings include claims by third parties, and certain proceedings have been certified or purport to be class actions. Developments in regulatory, legislative or judicial standards, material changes to litigation trends, or a catastrophic accident or series of accidents, including railroad derailments that afflict our intermodal railroad operating partners, involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. We may be exposed to interest rate risk with regard to any indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility.. The interest rate under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility is based on the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Rate or LIBOR, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus an applicable margin. To the extent we incur borrowings under our revolving credit facility, increases in any of these rates may increase our interest expense relating to these borrowings. As a result, we are exposed to interest rate risk. If interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations could increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. We are not a party to an interest rate swap contract or other derivative instrument designed to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuation risk.. If we do not adapt to new technologies and new participants in the truckload and transportation industry, our business could suffer.. The truckload and transportation industry may experience significant change in the coming years.  Non-traditional participants may seek to enter the industry, as in the case of technology firms that have introduced, or are in the process of introducing, load-matching technologies for freight or other new technologies.  These non-traditional participants may seek to disrupt the historic business model of the industry through such new technologies, new products, new services or new business models. Our traditional competitors also may introduce or adopt new technologies, which could increase competitive pressures. If we do not appropriately predict, prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations and market developments, our business, financial condition, operating results and long-term competitiveness may be harmed.. 21. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Class B Common Stock. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with the Schneider family and the trustees under the Schneider National, Inc. Voting Trust, and limiting the ability of our other shareholders to influence corporate matters. Their interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders in the future.. We currently have two classes of authorized and outstanding common stock:. • Class A common stock, entitled to ten votes per share, of which there were 83,029,500 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2017; and. • Class B common stock, entitled to one vote per share, of which there were 93,850,011 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2017.. All holders of Class A common stock and all holders of Class B common stock vote together as a single group on all matters submitted to a vote or consent of our shareholders. The Schneider family, including trusts established for the benefit of members of the Schneider family, collectively beneficially own 100% of our outstanding Class A common stock and approximately 44% of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 94% of the total voting power of all of our outstanding common stock and approximately 70% of our total outstanding common stock.. The Voting Trust holds the shares of Class A common stock. The trustees of the Voting Trust (the \"Voting Trustees\") and certain members of the Schneider family have entered into the Amended and Restated 1995 Schneider National, Inc. Voting Trust Agreement and Voting Agreement (the \"Voting Trust Agreement\"). Under the Voting Trust Agreement, the Voting Trustees exercise all voting power with respect to shares of Class A common stock, except that on votes with respect to Major Transactions (as defined under our Amended and Restated Bylaws) the Voting Trustees must take direction from the holders of trust certificates, voting in the same proportion as the vote of the holders of trust certificates. As a result, the vote on any Major Transaction will not be controlled by the Voting Trustees, but instead will be controlled by certain trusts for the benefit of Schneider family members holding the trust certificates issued by the Voting Trust.. Under the Voting Trust Agreement, the Voting Trustees have agreed to vote the shares of Class A common stock in favor of our Chief Executive Officer and designated members of the Schneider family in any election of members of our Board of Directors in accordance with the nomination process agreement described below. This Voting Trust Agreement provides that the members of our corporate governance committee (other than Schneider family members) will serve as trustees of the Voting Trust. Schneider family members have entered into a nomination process agreement with us pursuant to which our corporate governance committee will recommend, and our Board of Directors will include in the slate of director nominees recommended to our shareholders, two specified Schneider family members to be nominated to serve on our Board of Directors on an annual, rotating basis.. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that each share of Class A common stock withdrawn from, or otherwise transferred out of, the Voting Trust will automatically be converted into a share of Class B common stock.. As a result of these arrangements, the Voting Trust's voting control of our company allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require or may be accomplished by shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and transactions resulting in a change in control of the company. For so long as the Voting Trust maintains control of us, our shareholders other than those members of the Schneider family will be unable to affect the outcome of proposed corporate actions supported by the Schneider family, including a change in control of the company.. The interests of the Schneider family may not be the same as ours or those of our other shareholders. For example, the Schneider family may have an interest in pursuing transactions that could enhance its investment even though such transactions might involve risks to the company and to our other shareholders. The Schneider family may also have an interest in delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our company and to our other shareholders.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the rules of the NYSE and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements relating to our corporate governance committee. Our shareholders will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of other companies that are subject to such requirements.. The Voting Trust has more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors. As a result, we qualify as a \"controlled company\" under the corporate governance rules for NYSE-listed companies. As a controlled company, certain exemptions. 22. Table of Contents. under the NYSE listing standards exempt us from the obligation to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that we have a corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.. We have elected to take advantage of this \"controlled company\" exemption, and the holders of our Class B common stock therefore may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance rules for NYSE-listed companies. Our status as a controlled company could therefore make our Class B common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business.. We completed our initial public offering in April 2017.  As a publicly traded company, we are required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those of the SEC. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements is time-consuming, results in increased costs to us and could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which we refer to as the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we are committing significant resources, hiring additional staff, and providing additional management oversight. We are also implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. Sustaining our growth also requires us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join the company and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may divert management's attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. The laws and regulations to which we are subject as a publicly traded company may make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our Class B common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation.. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business, reputation and stock price.. Prior to our initial public offering in 2017, we were not required to comply with SEC rules that implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, and therefore were not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for that purpose.  As a public company, we will be required, pursuant to Section 404, to furnish a report by management in our Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, certifying among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for 2018, which is the first fiscal year beginning after the effective date of our initial public offering.. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. If we are unable to establish or maintain appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations on a timely basis, result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements and harm our operating results.. When evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude, on an ongoing basis, that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or. 23. Table of Contents. investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified opinion on internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our Class B common stock.. The price of our Class B common stock price may fluctuate significantly.. The trading price of our Class B common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile.  Since shares of our Class B common stock were sold in our initial public offering at a price of $19.00 per share, our closing stock price ranged from $18.40 to $28.96 through December 31, 2017.  In addition to the factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the trading price of our Class B common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • market conditions in the broader stock market in general, or in our industry in particular;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our guidance, quarterly financial reports and operating results;. • our ability to satisfy our ongoing capital needs and unanticipated cash requirements;. • adverse market reaction to any additional indebtedness incurred or securities we may issue in the future;. • introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors;. • announcements by our competitors of acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital. •     commitments;. • issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations;. • sales of large blocks of our stock;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business;. • adverse publicity about our industry or individual scandals;. • litigation and governmental investigations; and. • economic and political conditions or events.. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our Class B common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of Class B common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Class B common stock. In the past few years, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. If any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business.. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, by us or our existing shareholders in the public market could cause the market price of our Class B common stock to decline.. If our existing shareholders sell substantial amounts of our Class B common stock in the public market in the future, or transfer substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in a manner that would cause such Class A common stock to automatically convert into newly issued shares of Class B common stock, the market price of our Class B common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our existing shareholders might sell shares of Class B common stock or transfer shares of Class A common stock could also depress our market price. As of December 31, 2017, we had 83,029,500 shares of Class A common stock outstanding and 93,850,011 shares of Class B common stock outstanding.. Some provisions of Wisconsin law and our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our Class B common stock.. Our status as a Wisconsin corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law (\"WBCL\") may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder. We may engage in a business combination with an interested shareholder after the expiration of the three-year period with respect to that shareholder only if one or more of the following conditions is satisfied: (1) our Board of Directors approved the acquisition of the stock before the date on which the shareholder acquired the shares, (2) the business combination is approved by a majority of our outstanding voting stock not beneficially owned by the interested shareholder or (3) the consideration to be received by shareholders meets certain fair price requirements of the WBCL with respect to form and amount.. In addition, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult, including the following:. 24. Table of Contents. • a dual class common stock structure, which provides the Schneider National, Inc. Voting Trust with the ability to control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, even if the Schneider National, Inc. Voting Trust beneficially owns significantly less than a majority of the shares of our outstanding Class A and Class B common stock;. • require that certain transactions be conditioned upon approval by 60 percent of the voting power of our capital stock, including any transaction which results in the Schneider family holding less than 40 percent of the voting power of our capital stock, a sale of substantially all of our assets and a dissolution;. • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of stock to elect some directors;. • provide that special meetings of shareholders may be called only by the Board of Directors and the chief executive officer, and by our shareholders only if holders of at least ten percent of all votes entitled to be cast on the proposed issue submit a written demand in accordance with the WBCL and the other provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws;. • establish advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates for election as directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings; and. • authorize undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued by our Board of Directors without shareholder approval.. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also have the effect of discouraging proxy contests and make it more difficult for our non-controlling shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions.. We may change our dividend policy at any time.. Although we expect to continue to pay dividends to holders of our Class A and Class B common stock, we have no obligation to pay any dividend, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice. The declaration and amount of any future dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors in determining whether dividends are in the best interest of our shareholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. Future dividends may also be affected by factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant, including our potential future capital requirements for investments, legal risks, changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws and contractual restrictions such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements. As a result, we may not pay dividends at any rate or at all.. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws designate courts in the State of Wisconsin as the exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws provide that, unless the company consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, one of the Circuit Court for Brown County, Wisconsin or the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin - Green Bay Division will be the exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty, (c) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to the WBCL, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation or our Amended and Restated Bylaws and (d) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in all cases subject to the applicable court having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to this exclusive forum provision. This exclusive forum provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees.. Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In addition, the enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies' articles of incorporation and bylaws has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that a court could find this exclusive forum provision to be inapplicable or unenforceable."
