[1] "Item 1A | Risk Factors. Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents that the Corporation files with the SEC are risks that should be considered in evaluating the Corporation's common stock, as well as risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual future results of the Company to differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements contained in this Report and in other public statements the Company makes. Additionally, because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other variables affecting the Company's operating results, the Company's past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance.. If we cannot anticipate technology trends and develop new products or adapt to new technologies responding to changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect our revenues or profitability.. The Company operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, including, in particular, changes in customer preferences and changes and advances in relevant technologies. There are substantial uncertainties associated with the Company's efforts to develop successful trade publishing, educational, and media products and services, including digital products and services, for its customers, as well as to adapt its print and other materials to new digital technologies, including the internet cloud technologies, tablets, mobile and other devices and school-based technologies. The Company makes significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable, or whose profitability may be significantly lower than the Company anticipates or has experienced historically. In particular, in the context of the Company's current focus on key digital opportunities, the markets are continuing to develop and the Company may be unsuccessful in establishing itself as a significant factor in any market which does develop. Many aspects of markets which could develop for children and schools, such as the nature of the relevant software and devices or hardware, the size of the market, relevant methods of delivery and relevant content, as well as pricing models, are still evolving and will, most likely, be subject to change on a recurrent basis until a pattern develops and becomes more defined. For example, the Company previously determined to cease its support for its ereading applications offered to consumers through its school and ecommerce channels in favor of concentrating its efforts towards the introduction of a universal cross-platform streaming application, made available initially to the classroom market. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in implementing its revised digital strategy, including the continuing development of new applications and digital products for its consumer and school markets, which could adversely affect the Company's revenues and growth opportunities. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company will ultimately be successful in its broader redirected strategy based on a streaming model directed to the classroom market coupled with its continuing development of a broader streaming model. In addition, the Company faces market risks associated with systems development and service delivery in its evolving school ordering and ecommerce businesses.. Our financial results would suffer if we fail to successfully differentiate our offerings and meet market needs in school-based book clubs and book fairs, two of our core businesses.. The Company's school-based book clubs and book fairs businesses produce a substantial amount of the Company's revenues. The Company is subject to the risks that it will not successfully continue to develop and execute new promotional strategies for its school-based book clubs or book fairs in response to future customer trends or technological changes or that it will not otherwise meet market needs in these businesses in a timely or cost-effective fashion. The Book Clubs business relies on attracting and retaining new sponsor-teachers to promote its products. If the Company cannot attract new millennial teachers and meet the changing preferences of these teachers, its revenues and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Likewise, the inability to meet the demands of individuals and groups within schools who run book fairs could negatively impact the Company's revenues and cash flows.. The Company differentiates itself from competitors by providing curated offerings in its school-based book clubs and book fairs designed to make reading attractive for children, in furtherance of its mission as a champion of literacy.  Competition from mass market and on-line distributors using customer-specific curation tools could reduce this differentiation, posing a risk to the Company's results. In addition, the Company has become subject to increased competition in its school book fair business as a result of the recent entry into this business of a competitor operating on a national level.. 8. If we fail to maintain the continuance of strong relationships with our authors, illustrators and other creative talent, as well as to develop relationships with new creative talent, our business could be adversely affected.. The Company's business, in particular the trade publishing and media portions of the business, is highly dependent on maintaining strong relationships with the authors, illustrators and other creative talent who produce the products and services that are sold to its customers. Any overall weakening of these relationships, or the failure to develop successful new relationships, could have an adverse impact on the Company's business and financial performance.. We own certain significant real estate assets which are subject to various risks related to conditions affecting the real estate market.. The Company has direct ownership of certain significant real estate assets, in particular the Company's headquarters location in New York City and its primary distribution center in Jefferson City, Missouri. The New York headquarters location serves a dual purpose as it also contains premium retail space that is or will be leased to retail tenants in order to generate rental income and cash flow. The Company is currently in the final stages of renovation of its New York headquarters which will include making additional space available for retail use. Accordingly, the Company is sensitive to various risk factors such as changes to real estate values and property taxes, pricing and demand for high end retail spaces in Soho, New York City, interest rates, cash flow of underlying real estate assets, supply and demand, and the credit worthiness of any retail tenants. There is also no guarantee that investment objectives for the retail component of the Company's real estate will be achieved.. If we fail to adapt to new purchasing patterns or trends, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. The Company's business is affected significantly by changes in customer purchasing patterns or trends in, as well as the underlying strength of, the trade, educational and media markets for children. In particular, the Company's educational publishing business may be adversely affected by budgetary restraints and other changes in educational funding as a result of new policies which could be implemented at the federal level or otherwise resulting from new legislation or regulatory action at the federal, state or local level and changes in the procurement process, to which the Company may be unable to adapt successfully. In addition, there are many competing demands for educational funds, and there can be no guarantee that the Company will be successful in continuing to obtain sales of its educational programs and materials from any available funding.. The competitive pressures we face in our businesses could adversely affect our financial performance and growth prospects.. The Company is subject to significant competition, including from other trade and educational publishers and media, entertainment and internet companies, as well as retail and internet distributors, many of which are substantially larger than the Company and have much greater resources. To the extent the Company cannot meet these challenges from existing or new competitors and develop new product offerings to meet customer preferences or needs, the Company's revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In its educational publishing business, the Company is investing in a core curriculum literacy program covering grades pre-K through 6 in direct competition with traditional basal textbook publishers to meet the perceived needs of the modern curriculum.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in having school districts adopt the new core program in preference to basal textbooks or be successful in state adoptions, nor that basal textbook publishers will not successfully adapt their business models to the development of new forms of core curriculum, which could have an adverse effect on the return on the Company's investments in this area, as well as on its financial performance and growth prospects.. Additionally, demand for many of the Company's product offerings, particularly books sold through school channels, is subject to price sensitivity. Failure to maintain a competitive pricing model could reduce revenues and profitability.. Changes in the mix of our major customers in our Trade distribution channel or in their purchasing patterns may affect the profitability of our trade publishing business and restrict our growth.. The Company's traditional distribution channels have changed significantly over the last few years to now include, among others, online retailers and ecommerce sites, digital delivery platforms and expanding social media and other marketing platforms. An increased concentration of retailer power has also resulted in the increased importance of mass merchandisers and of publishing best sellers to meet consumer demand. Currently, the Company's top five trade customers make up approximately 49% of the Company's trade business and 11% of the Company's total revenues,. 9. with one customer accounting for 19% of the trade business and 4% of total revenues. Adverse changes in the mix of the major customers of the trade business, including the type of customer, which may also be engaged in a competitive business, or in their purchasing patterns or the nature of their distribution arrangements with the trade business, could negatively affect the profitability of the Company's trade business and the Company's financial performance.. Our reputation is one of our most important assets, and any adverse publicity or adverse events, such as a significant data privacy breach or violation of privacy laws or regulations, could cause significant reputational damage and financial loss.. The businesses of the Company focus on children's reading, learning and education, and its key relationships are with educators, teachers, parents and children. In particular, the Company believes that, in selecting its products, teachers, educators and parents rely on the Company's reputation for quality books and educational materials and programs appropriate for children. Negative publicity, either through traditional media or through social media, could tarnish this relationship.. Also, in certain of its businesses the Company holds or has access to personal data, including that of customers. Adverse publicity stemming from a data breach, whether or not valid, could reduce demand for the Company's products or adversely affect its relationship with teachers or educators, impacting participation in book clubs or book fairs or decisions to purchase educational materials or programs produced by the Company's Education segment. Further, a failure to adequately protect personal data, including that of customers or children, or other data security failure, such as cyber attacks from third parties, could lead to penalties, significant remediation costs and reputational damage, including loss of future business.. The Company is subject to privacy laws and regulations in the conduct of its business in the United States and in other jurisdictions in which it conducts its international operations, many of which vary significantly, relating to use of information obtained from customers of, and participants in, the Company's on-line offerings, including, most recently, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, which became enforceable on May 25, 2018, imposing significant new data privacy requirements across the European Union.  In addition, the Company is also subject to the regulatory requirements of the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (\"COPPA\") in the United States relating to access to, and the use of information received from, children in respect to the Company's on-line offerings. Since the businesses of the Company are primarily centered on children, failures of the Company to comply with the requirements of COPPA and similar laws in particular, as well as failures to comply generally with applicable privacy laws and regulations, as referred to above, could lead to significant reputational damage and other penalties and costs, including loss of future business.. We maintain an experienced and dedicated employee base that executes the Company's strategies. Failure to attract, retain and develop this employee base could result in difficulty with executing our strategy.. The Company's employees, notably its Chief Executive Officer, senior executives and other editorial staff members, have substantial experience in the publishing and education markets. In addition, the Company is in the process of implementing a strategic information technology transformation process, requiring diverse levels of relevant expertise and experience. Inability to continue to adequately maintain a workforce of this nature meeting the foregoing needs could negatively impact the Company's operations.. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our corporate strategy we may not be able to maintain our historical growth.. The Company's future growth depends upon a number of factors, including:. • The ability of the Company to successfully implement its strategies for its respective business units in a timely manner. • The introduction and acceptance of new products and services, including the success of its digital strategy and its ability to implement and successfully market its new core literacy program, as well as other programs, in its educational publishing business, as well as through the Company's educational publishing operation in Singapore. • The ability to expand in the global markets that it serves. • The ability to meet demand for content meeting current standards in the United States. • Continuing success in implementing on-going cost containment and reduction programs. Difficulties, delays or failures experienced in connection with any of these factors could materially affect the future growth of the Company.. 10. Failure to meet the objectives of the Company's \"2020 Plan\" could adversely affect our future operating results.. The Company has embarked upon an integrated program to increase profitability - the \"2020 Plan.\" The plan leverages new technology, process improvements and cross-business opportunities to drive improved profitability over the upcoming three fiscal years. Failure to execute the programs in one or more of these areas could negatively impact the Company's financial results.. Failure of one or more of our information technology platforms could affect our ability to execute our operating strategy.. The Company relies on a variety of information technology platforms to execute its operations, including human resources, payroll, finance, order-to-cash, procurement, vendor payment, inventory management, distribution and content management systems and its internal operating systems. Many of these systems are integrated via internally developed interfaces and modifications.  Failure of one or more systems could lead to operating inefficiencies or disruptions and a resulting decline in revenue or profitability. As the Company continues to implement its new enterprise-wide customer and content management systems and the migration to software as a service (\"SaaS\") and cloud-based technology solutions, in its initiatives to integrate its separate legacy platforms into a cohesive enterprise-wide system, there can be no assurance that it will be successful in its efforts or that the staged implementation of these initiatives in the Company's global operations will not involve disruptions in its systems or processes having a short term adverse impact on its operations and ability to service its customers.. Increases in certain operating costs and expenses, which are beyond our control and can significantly affect our profitability, could adversely affect our operating performance.. The Company's major expense categories include employee compensation and printing, paper and distribution (such as postage, shipping and fuel) costs. Compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting costs of health insurance, postretirement benefits and any trends specific to the employee skill sets that the Company requires. Current shortages for warehouse labor, driver labor and other required skills may cause the Company's costs to increase.. Paper prices fluctuate based on worldwide demand and supply for paper in general, as well as for the specific types of paper used by the Company. If there is a significant disruption in the supply of paper or a significant increase in paper costs, or in its shipping or fuel costs, beyond those currently anticipated, which would generally be beyond the control of the Company, or if the Company's strategies to try to manage these costs, including additional cost savings initiatives, are ineffective, the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected.. Failure of third party providers to provide contracted outsourcing of business processes and information technology services could cause business interruptions and could increase the costs of these services to the Company.. The Company outsources business processes to reduce complexity and increase efficiency for activities such as distribution, manufacturing, product development, transactional processing, information technologies and various administrative functions.  Increasingly, the Company is engaging third parties to provide SaaS, which can reduce the Company's internal execution risk, but increases the Company's dependency upon third parties to execute business critical information technology tasks. If SaaS providers are unable to provide these services, or if outsource providers fail to execute their contracted functionality, the Company could experience disruptions to its distribution and other business activities and may incur higher costs.. The inability to obtain and publish best-selling new titles could cause our future results to decline in comparison to historical results.. The Company invests in authors and illustrators for its Trade publication business, and has a history of publishing hit titles such as Harry Potter. The inability to publish best-selling new titles in future years could negatively impact the Company.. 11. The loss of or failure to obtain rights to intellectual property material to our businesses would adversely affect our financial results.. The Company's products generally comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media. The ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on the Company's ability to defend its intellectual property against infringement, as well as the breadth of rights obtained. The Company's operating results could be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for its intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions, markets and media, as well as by the costs of dealing with claims alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, including claims involving business method patents in the ecommerce and internet areas and the licensing of photographs in the trade and educational publishing areas, and the Company's revenues could be constrained by limitations on the rights that the Company is able to secure to exploit its intellectual property in different media and distribution channels, as well as geographic limitations on the exploitation of such rights.. Because we procure products and sell our products and services in foreign countries, changes in currency exchange rates, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could adversely affect our operations and financial results.. The Company has various operating subsidiaries domiciled in foreign countries. In addition, the Company sells products and services to customers located in foreign countries where it does not have operating subsidiaries, and a significant portion of the Company's revenues are generated from outside of the United States. The Company's business processes, including distribution, sales, sourcing of content, marketing and advertising, are, accordingly, subject to multiple national, regional and local laws, regulations and policies. The Company could be adversely affected by noncompliance with foreign laws, regulations and policies, including those pertaining to foreign rights and exportation. The Company is also exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and to business disruption caused by political, financial or economic instability or the occurrence of natural disasters in foreign countries. In addition, the Company and its foreign operations could be adversely impacted by a downturn in general economic conditions on a more global basis caused by general political instability or unrest or changes in economic affiliations. For example, the results of the Referendum on the United Kingdom's (or the UK) Membership in the European Union (EU) (referred to as Brexit), advising for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, could affect our sales in the UK, as the uncertainty caused by the vote and the uncertain outcome of negotiations between the EU and the UK could negatively impact the economies of the UK and other nations. Changes in international trade relations with foreign countries, such as increased tariffs and duties (including those recently imposed by the United States) could cause the Company's costs to rise, or our overseas revenues to decline.. Failure to meet the demands of regulators, and the associated high cost of compliance with regulations, as well as failure to enforce compliance with our Code of Ethics and other policies, could negatively impact us.. The Company operates in multiple countries and is subject to different regulations throughout the world. In the United States, the Company is regulated by the Internal Revenue Service, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission and other regulating bodies. Failure to comply with these regulators, including providing these regulators with accurate financial and statistical information that often is subject to estimates and assumptions, or the high cost of complying with relevant regulations, could negatively impact the Company.. In addition, the decentralized and global nature of the Company's operations makes it more difficult to communicate and monitor compliance with the Company's Code of Ethics and other material Company policies and to assure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, some of which have global applicability, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States and the UK Bribery Act in the United Kingdom. Failures to comply with the Company's Code of Ethics and violations of such laws or regulations, including through employee misconduct, could result in significant liabilities for the Company, including criminal liability, fines and civil litigation risk, and result in damage to the reputation of the Company.. Certain of our activities are subject to weather risks, which could disrupt our operations or otherwise adversely affect our financial performance.. The Company conducts certain of its businesses and maintains warehouse and office facilities in locations that are at risk of being negatively affected by severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods or snowstorms. Notably, much of the Company's domestic distribution facilities are located in central Missouri. A disruption of these or other facilities could impact the Company's school-based book clubs, school-based book fairs and education businesses. Additionally, weather disruptions could result in school closures, resulting in reduced demand for the. 12. Company's products in its school channels during the affected periods. Accordingly, the Company could be adversely affected by any future significant weather event.. Control of the Company resides in our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and other members of his family through their ownership of Class A Stock, and the holders of the Common Stock generally have no voting rights with respect to transactions requiring stockholder approval.. The voting power of the Corporation's capital stock is vested exclusively in the holders of Class A Stock, except for the right of the holders of Common Stock to elect one-fifth of the Board of Directors and except as otherwise provided by law or as may be established in favor of any series of preferred stock that may be issued. Richard Robinson, the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the Robinson family beneficially own all of the outstanding shares of Class A Stock and are able to elect up to four-fifths of the Corporation's Board of Directors and, without the approval of the Corporation's other stockholders, to effect or block other actions or transactions requiring stockholder approval, such as a merger, sale of substantially all assets or similar transaction.. Our book clubs business may be adversely affected, and we may incur significant state sales tax assessments, as a result of a U.S. Supreme Court decision reversing prior law and holding that remote sellers, including on-line-retailers, can be required to collect state sales taxes notwithstanding the absence of a physical presence within the state taxing jurisdiction.. In June 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed its prior case law holding that it was unconstitutional for states to require remote sellers of goods, such as catalog mailers and ecommerce internet sellers, to collect and remit sales tax in respect to sales made to residents of a state, if the remote sellers maintained no physical presence in the state. This holding affects certain of Scholastic's businesses, primarily its school book clubs business unit, which has not previously collected or remitted sales tax on sales of books through its book clubs in certain states, based on the absence of the requisite physical presence in the relevant state to enable the state to constitutionally require that it collect or remit such taxes. The result of this decision will be to subject the Company's school book club business to remitting sales tax in additional states where it does not currently remit such tax on the sales of books through the school book clubs to residents of the state.. Given that the U.S. Supreme Court ruling was only recently handed down, numerous questions remain concerning the likely effect upon the Company of the ruling, which will depend, among other things, upon the procedures and regulations the various states may institute in order to implement their tax collection efforts based on the ruling, including the timing of such implementation as it affects the collection and remittance of tax, the extent to which the various states may seek to apply the ruling retroactively to prior time periods and for what periods and, in the case of the Company's school book clubs business, additional issues relating to the provisions of the applicable law currently in effect in a particular state and its application to the book clubs business model applied to that state. The unfavorable resolution of the implications of this decision could negatively impact the Company's financial results,. Note. The risk factors listed above should not be construed as exhaustive or as any admission regarding the adequacy of disclosures made by the Company prior to and including the date hereof.. Forward-Looking Statements:. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements relating to future periods. Additional written and oral forward-looking statements may be made by the Company from time to time in SEC filings and otherwise. The Company cautions readers that results or expectations expressed by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to the Company's future business prospects, strategic 2020 Plan and other plans, ecommerce and digital initiatives, new product introductions, strategies, new education standards, goals, revenues, improved efficiencies, general costs, manufacturing costs, medical costs, potential cost savings, merit pay, operating margins, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, the cost and timing of capital projects, interest costs, cash flows and income, are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements, due to factors including those noted in this Annual Report and other risks and factors identified from time to time in the Company's filings with the SEC. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.. 13"
