[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the exhibits hereto and the information incorporated by reference herein, as well as our 2017 Annual Report to Shareholders (our \"2017 Annual Report\"), contain \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to risks and uncertainties.  Information regarding activities, events and developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, information relating to our future growth and profitability targets and strategies designed to increase total shareholder value, are forward-looking statements based on management's estimates, assumptions and projections.  Forward-looking statements also include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our future economic and financial condition and results of operations, the plans and objectives of management and our assumptions regarding our performance and such plans and objectives, as well as the amount and timing of repurchases of our Common Shares or other uses of cash flows.  Forward-looking statements generally can be identified through the use of words such as \"guidance,\" \"outlook,\" \"projected,\" \"believe,\" \"target,\" \"predict,\" \"estimate,\" \"forecast,\" \"strategy,\" \"may,\" \"goal,\" \"expect,\" \"anticipate,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"foresee,\" \"likely,\" \"will,\" \"should\" and other similar words and variations.. Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our 2017 Annual Report are predictions only and actual results could differ materially from management's expectations due to a variety of factors, including those described below.  All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons working on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such risk factors.. The forward-looking statements that we make in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our 2017 Annual Report are based on management's current views and assumptions regarding future events and speak only as of their dates.  We disclaim any obligation to update developments of these risk factors or to announce publicly any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements that we make, or to make corrections to reflect future events or developments, except as required by the federal securities laws.. Compliance with environmental and other public health regulations or changes in such regulations or regulatory enforcement priorities could increase our costs of doing business or limit our ability to market all of our products.. Local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental matters affect us in several ways.  In the United States, all products containing pesticides must comply with FIFRA and most must be registered with the U.S. EPA and. 8. similar state agencies before they can be sold or distributed.  Our inability to obtain or maintain such compliance, or the cancellation of any such registration of our products, could have an adverse effect on our business, the severity of which would depend on such matters as the products involved, whether another product could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected.  We attempt to anticipate regulatory developments and maintain registrations of, and access to, substitute active ingredients, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to avoid or reduce these risks.  In addition, in Canada, regulations have been adopted by several provinces that substantially restrict our ability to market and sell certain of our consumer pesticide products.. Under the Food Quality Protection Act, enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1996, food-use pesticides are evaluated to determine whether there is reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the cumulative effects of pesticide exposures.  Under this Act, the U.S. EPA is evaluating the cumulative and aggregate risks from dietary and non-dietary exposures to pesticides.  The pesticides in our products, certain of which may be used on crops processed into various food products, are typically manufactured by independent third parties and continue to be evaluated by the U.S. EPA as part of this exposure risk assessment.  The U.S. EPA or the third-party registrant may decide that a pesticide we use in our products will be limited or made unavailable to us.  We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of these continuing evaluations.. In addition, the use of certain pesticide and fertilizer products is regulated by various local, state, federal and foreign environmental and public health agencies.  These regulations may, among other things, ban the use of certain ingredients or require (i) that only certified or professional users apply the product, (ii) that certain products be used only on certain types of locations, (iii) users to post notices on properties to which products have been or will be applied, and (iv) notification to individuals in the vicinity that products will be applied in the future.  Even if we are able to comply with all such regulations and obtain all necessary registrations and licenses, we cannot provide assurance that our products, particularly pesticide products, will not cause injury to the environment or to people under all circumstances.  The costs of compliance, remediation or products liability have adversely affected operating results in the past and could materially adversely affect future quarterly or annual operating results.. Our products and operations may be subject to increased regulatory and environmental scrutiny in jurisdictions in which we do business.  For example, we are subject to regulations relating to our harvesting of peat for our growing media business which has come under increasing regulatory and environmental scrutiny.  In the United States, state regulations frequently require us to limit our harvesting and to restore the property to an agreed-upon condition.  In some locations, we have been required to create water retention ponds to control the sediment content of discharged water.  In Canada, our peat extraction efforts are also the subject of regulation.. In addition to the regulations already described, local, state, federal and foreign agencies regulate the disposal, transport, handling and storage of waste, remediation of contaminated sites, air and water discharges from our facilities, and workplace health and safety.. Under certain environmental laws, we may be liable for the costs of investigation and remediation of the presence of certain regulated materials, as well as related costs of investigation and remediation of damage to natural resources, at various properties, including our current and former properties as well as offsite waste handling or disposal sites that we have used.  Liability may be imposed upon us without regard to whether we knew of or caused the presence of such materials and, under certain circumstances, on a joint and several basis.  There can be no assurances that the presence of such regulated materials at any such locations, or locations that we may acquire in the future, will not result in liability to us under such laws or expose us to third-party actions such as tort suits based on alleged conduct or environmental conditions.. The adequacy of our current non-FIFRA compliance-related environmental accruals and future provisions depends upon our operating in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, as well as the assumptions that we have both identified all of the significant sites that must be remediated and that there are no significant conditions of potential contamination that are unknown to us.  A significant change in the facts and circumstances surrounding these assumptions or in current enforcement policies or requirements, or a finding that we are not in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and public health laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on future environmental capital expenditures and other environmental expenses, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business.. Maintaining our strong reputation with both consumers and our retail customers is a key component in our success.  Product recalls, our inability to ship, sell or transport affected products and governmental investigations may harm our reputation and acceptance of our products by consumers and our retail customers, which may materially and adversely affect our business operations, decrease sales and increase costs.. 9. In addition, perceptions that the products we produce and market are not safe could adversely affect us and contribute to the risk we will be subjected to legal action.  We manufacture and market a variety of products, such as fertilizers, growing media, herbicides and pesticides.  On occasion, allegations are made that some of these products have failed to perform up to expectations or have caused damage or injury to individuals or property.  For example, public commentary by media agencies, non-governmental organizations and/or litigation-related assertions, even if inaccurate, may lead consumers to believe that certain products we manufacture or market may be unsafe.  Further, based on reports of contamination at a third-party supplier's vermiculite mine, the public may perceive that some of our products manufactured in the past using vermiculite are or may be contaminated. Public perception that the products we manufacture or market are not safe, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Certain of our products may be purchased for use in new and emerging industries or segments and/or be subject to varying, inconsistent, and rapidly changing laws, regulations, administrative practices, enforcement approaches, judicial interpretations, and consumer perceptions.. We sell products, including hydroponic gardening products, that end users may purchase for use in new and emerging industries or segments, including the growing of cannabis, that may not grow or achieve market acceptance in a manner that we can predict.  The demand for these products is dependent on the growth of these industries or segments, which is uncertain.. In addition, we sell products that end users may purchase for use in industries or segments, including the growing of cannabis, that are subject to varying, inconsistent, and rapidly changing laws, regulations, administrative practices, enforcement approaches, judicial interpretations, and consumer perceptions.  For example, certain countries and 29 U.S. states have adopted frameworks that authorize, regulate, and tax the cultivation, processing, sale, and use of cannabis for medicinal and/or non-medicinal use, while the U.S. Controlled Substances Act and the laws of other U.S. states prohibit growing cannabis.. Our gardening products, including our hydroponic gardening products, are multi-purpose products designed and intended for growing a wide range of plants and are generally purchased from retailers by end users who may grow any variety of plants, including cannabis.  Although the demand for our products may be negatively impacted depending on how laws, regulations, administrative practices, enforcement approaches, judicial interpretations, and consumer perceptions develop, we cannot reasonably predict the nature of such developments or the effect, if any, that such developments could have on our business.. Our marketing activities may not be successful.. We invest substantial resources in advertising, consumer promotions and other marketing activities to maintain, extend and expand our brand image.  There can be no assurances that our marketing strategies will be effective or that the amount we invest in advertising activities will result in a corresponding increase in sales of our products.  If our marketing initiatives are not successful, we will have incurred significant expenses without the benefit of higher revenues.. Our success depends upon the retention and availability of key personnel and the effective succession of senior management.. Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key personnel.  Our future operations could be harmed if we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior executives and other key personnel.  In addition, if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, including our chief executive officer, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. Disruptions in availability or increases in the prices of raw materials or fuel could adversely affect our results of operations.. We source many of our commodities and other raw materials on a global basis.  The general availability and price of those raw materials can be affected by numerous forces beyond our control, including political instability, trade restrictions and other government regulations, duties and tariffs, price controls, changes in currency exchange rates and weather.. A significant disruption in the availability of any of our key raw materials could negatively impact our business.  In addition, increases in the prices of key commodities and other raw materials could adversely affect our ability to manage our cost structure.  Market conditions may limit our ability to raise selling prices to offset increases in our raw material costs.  Our proprietary technologies can limit our ability to locate or utilize alternative inputs for certain products.  For certain inputs, new sources of supply may have to be qualified under regulatory standards, which can require additional investment and delay bringing a product to market.. We utilize hedge agreements periodically to fix the prices of a portion of our urea and fuel needs.  The hedge agreements are designed to mitigate the earnings and cash flow fluctuations associated with the costs of urea and fuel.  In periods of declining urea and fuel prices, utilizing hedge agreements may effectively increase our expenditures for these raw materials.. 10. Our hedging arrangements expose us to certain counterparty risks.. In addition to commodity hedge agreements, we utilize interest rate swap agreements to manage the net interest rate risk inherent in our sources of borrowing as well as foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk associated with certain balances denominated in foreign currencies.  Utilizing these hedge agreements exposes us to certain counterparty risks.  The failure of one or more of the counterparties to fulfill their obligations under the hedge agreements, whether as a result of weakening financial stability or otherwise, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Economic conditions could adversely affect our business.. Uncertain global economic conditions could adversely affect our business.  Negative global economic trends, such as decreased consumer and business spending, high unemployment levels, reduced rates of home ownership and housing starts, high foreclosure rates and declining consumer and business confidence, pose challenges to our business and could result in declining revenues, profitability and cash flow.  Although we continue to devote significant resources to support our brands, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively affect consumer demand for our products.  Consumers may reduce discretionary spending during periods of economic uncertainty, which could reduce sales volumes of our products or result in a shift in our product mix from higher margin to lower margin products.. The highly competitive nature of our markets could adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow revenues.. Each of our operating segments participates in markets that are highly competitive.  Our products compete against national and regional products and private label products produced by various suppliers.  Many of our competitors sell their products at prices lower than ours.  Our most price sensitive customers may trade down to lower priced products during challenging economic times or if current economic conditions worsen.  We compete primarily on the basis of product innovation, product quality, product performance, value, brand strength, supply chain competency, field sales support, in-store sales support, the strength of our relationships with major retailers and advertising.  Some of our competitors have significant financial resources.  The strong competition that we face in all of our markets may prevent us from achieving our revenue goals, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Our inability to continue to develop and grow brands with leading market positions, maintain our relationships with key retailers and deliver high quality products on a reliable basis at competitive prices could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may not successfully develop new product lines and products or improve existing product lines and products or maintain our effectiveness in reaching consumers through rapidly evolving communication vehicles.. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve our existing product lines and products and to develop, manufacture and market new product lines and products to meet evolving consumer needs, as well as our ability to leverage new media such as digital media and social networks to reach existing and potential consumers.  We cannot be certain that we will be successful in developing, manufacturing and marketing new product lines and products or product innovations which satisfy consumer needs or achieve market acceptance, or that we will develop, manufacture and market new product lines and products or product innovations in a timely manner.  If we fail to successfully develop, manufacture and market new product lines and products or product innovations, or if we fail to reach existing and potential consumers, our ability to maintain or grow our market share may be adversely affected, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the development and introduction of new product lines and products and product innovations require substantial research, development and marketing expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup if such new product lines, products or innovations do not achieve market acceptance.. Many of the products we manufacture and market contain active ingredients that are subject to regulatory approval.  The need to obtain such approval could delay the launch of new products or product innovations that contain active ingredients or otherwise prevent us from developing and manufacturing certain products and product innovations.. Our ongoing investment in new product lines and products and technologies is inherently risky and could disrupt our ongoing businesses.. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new product lines, products, and technologies.  Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenues to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such strategies and offerings.  Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results.. 11. Because of the concentration of our sales to a small number of retail customers, the loss of one or more of, or a significant reduction in orders from, our top customers could adversely affect our financial results.. Our top three retail customers together accounted for 61% of our fiscal 2017 net sales and 60% of our outstanding accounts receivable as of September 30, 2017.  The loss of, or reduction in orders from, our top three retail customers, Home Depot, Lowe's, and Walmart, or any other significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as could customer disputes regarding shipments, fees, merchandise condition or related matters.  Our inability to collect accounts receivable from one of our major customers, or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of one of these customers, including a bankruptcy filing or a liquidation, could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We do not have long-term sales agreements with, or other contractual assurances as to future sales to, any of our major retail customers.  In addition, continued consolidation in the retail industry has resulted in an increasingly concentrated retail base, and as a result, we are significantly dependent upon sales to key retailers who have significant bargaining strength.  To the extent such concentration continues to occur, our net sales and income from operations may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments involving our relationship with, one or more of our key customers.  In addition, our business may be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retailers, such as inventory destocking, limitations on access to shelf space, price demands and other conditions.. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers could harm our business.. We rely on third-party service providers to manufacture certain of our products.  This reliance generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the production process, which could lead to production delays or interruptions and inferior product quality control.  In addition, performance problems at these third-party providers could lead to cost overruns, shortages or other problems, which could increase our costs of production or result in delivery delays to our customers.. If one or more of our third-party manufacturers becomes insolvent or unwilling to continue to manufacture products of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver products to our retail customers could be significantly impaired.  Substitute manufacturers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to manufacture the products we need on acceptable terms.  Moreover, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current third-party manufacturers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Our reliance on a limited base of suppliers may result in disruptions to our business and adversely affect our financial results.. Although we continue to implement risk-mitigation strategies for single-source suppliers, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain of our raw materials, product components and other necessary supplies, including certain active ingredients used in our products.  If we are unable to maintain supplier arrangements and relationships, if we are unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity and quality levels needed for our business, or if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent or experience other financial distress, we could experience disruptions in production, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A significant interruption in the operation of our or our suppliers' facilities could impact our capacity to produce products and service our customers, which could adversely affect revenues and earnings.. Operations at our and our suppliers' facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including fire, flooding or other natural disasters, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, government shut-downs and work stoppages.  A significant interruption in the operation of our or our suppliers' facilities could significantly impact our capacity to produce products and service our customers in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and financial position.  This is especially true for those products that we manufacture at a limited number of facilities, such as our fertilizer and liquid products.. Climate change and unfavorable weather conditions could adversely impact financial results.. The issue of climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide.  The possible effects, as described in various public accounts, could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels that could adversely impact our costs and business operations and the supply and demand for our fertilizer, garden soils and pesticide products.  In addition, fluctuating climatic conditions may result in unpredictable modifications in the manner in which consumers garden or their attitudes towards gardening, making it more difficult for us to provide appropriate products to appropriate markets in time to meet consumer demand.. 12. Because of the uncertainty of weather volatility related to climate change and any resulting unfavorable weather conditions, we cannot predict its potential impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our indebtedness could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition.. As of September 30, 2017, we had $1.4 billion of debt and $1.3 billion was available to be borrowed under our credit agreement.  Our inability to meet restrictive financial and non-financial covenants associated with that debt, or to generate sufficient cash flow to repay maturing debt, could adversely affect our financial condition.. For example, our debt level could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. • make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the cash flows available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, advertising, research and development efforts and other general corporate requirements;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds;. • expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because some of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.. Our ability to make payments on or refinance our indebtedness, fund planned capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay dividends and make repurchases of our Common Shares will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.  This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  We cannot provide any assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.. In addition, our credit facility and the indentures governing our 6.000% Senior Notes due 2023 (the \"6.000% Senior Notes\") and our 5.250% Senior Notes due 2026 (the \"5.250% Senior Notes\") contain restrictive covenants and cross-default provisions.  Our credit facility also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios.  Our ability to comply with those covenants and satisfy those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions.  A breach of any of those financial ratio covenants or other covenants could result in a default.  In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and could cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets.  We cannot provide any assurance that the holders of such indebtedness would waive a default or that we could pay the indebtedness in full if it were accelerated.. Subject to compliance with certain covenants under our credit facility and the indentures governing the 6.000% Senior Notes and the 5.250% Senior Notes, we may incur additional debt in the future.  If we incur additional debt, the risks described above could intensify.. Our lending activities may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. As part of our strategic initiatives, we have provided financing to buyers of certain business assets we have sold and to certain strategic partners.  Our exposure to credit losses on these financing balances will depend on the financial condition of these counterparties and macroeconomic factors beyond our control, such as deteriorating conditions in the world economy or in the industries served by the borrowers.  While we monitor our exposure, there can be no guarantee we will be able to successfully mitigate all of these risks.  Credit losses, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 13. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs) could adversely affect our cost of financing and the market price of our 6.000% Senior Notes and 5.250% Senior Notes.. NRSROs rate the 6.000% Senior Notes, the 5.250% Senior Notes and the Company based on factors that include our operating results, actions that we take, their view of the general outlook for our industry and their view of the general outlook for the economy.  Actions taken by the NRSROs can include maintaining, upgrading or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading.  Downgrading the credit rating of the 6.000% Senior Notes or the 5.250% Senior Notes or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading could increase our cost of financing, limit our access to the capital markets and have an adverse effect on the market price of the 6.000% Senior Notes and the 5.250% Senior Notes.. Our postretirement-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions.. We sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans associated with our U.S. and international businesses, as well as a postretirement medical plan in the United States for certain retired associates and their dependents.  The performance of the financial markets and changes in interest rates impact the funded status of these plans and cause volatility in our postretirement-related costs and future funding requirements.  If the financial markets do not provide the expected long-term returns on invested assets, we could be required to make significant pension contributions.  Additionally, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements.. We utilize third-party actuaries to evaluate assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans.  In the event we determine that our assumptions should be revised, such as the discount rate, the expected long-term rate or expected return on assets, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease.  The assumptions we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements.. Our international operations make us susceptible to the costs and risks associated with operating internationally.. Despite the sale of the International Business in August 2017, we continue to operate manufacturing, sales and service facilities outside of the United States, particularly in Canada, Mexico, China, Norway and The Netherlands.  Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including:. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • limitations on the remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;. • additional costs of compliance with local regulations;. • historically, in certain countries, higher rates of inflation than in the United States;. • changes in the economic conditions or consumer preferences or demand for our products in these markets;. • restrictive actions by multi-national governing bodies, foreign governments or subdivisions thereof;. • changes in foreign labor laws and regulations affecting our ability to hire and retain employees;. • changes in U.S. and foreign laws regarding trade and investment;. • less robust protection of our intellectual property under foreign laws; and. • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support for our products.. In addition, our operations outside the United States are subject to the risk of new and different legal and regulatory requirements in local jurisdictions, potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and potentially adverse tax consequences.  The costs associated with operating our continuing international business could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in the future.. 14. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flows.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States federal jurisdiction and various local, state and foreign jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets (such as net operating losses and tax credits) and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process.  In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly related to our operations in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income of the appropriate character in the relevant jurisdiction.. From time to time, tax proposals are introduced or considered by the U.S. Congress or the legislative bodies in local, state and foreign jurisdictions that could also affect our tax rate, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, or our tax liabilities.  Our tax liabilities are also affected by the amounts we charge for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items in intercompany transactions.  We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions.  In connection with these audits (or future audits), tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes.  We regularly assess the likely outcomes of our audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision.  As a result, the ultimate resolution of our tax audits, changes in tax laws or tax rates, and the ability to utilize our deferred tax assets could materially affect our tax provision, net income and cash flows in future periods.. Our operations may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attack.. We rely on information technology systems in order to conduct business, including communicating with employees and our key retail customers, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, shipping products to retail customers and analyzing and reporting results of operations.  While we have taken steps to ensure the security of our information technology systems, our systems may nevertheless be vulnerable to computer viruses, security breaches and other disruptions from unauthorized users.  If our information technology systems are damaged or cease to function properly for an extended period of time, whether as a result of a significant cyber incident or otherwise, our ability to communicate internally as well as with our retail customers could be significantly impaired, which may adversely impact our business.  Additionally, an operational failure or breach of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to the loss or disclosure of both our and our retail customers' financial, product, and other confidential information, as well as personally identifiable information about our employees or customers, result in regulatory or other legal proceedings, and have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business.. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, tradenames and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names and issued patents.  We have not sought to register every one of our marks either in the United States or in every country in which such mark is used.  Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States with respect to the registered brand names and issued patents we hold.  If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information and/or brand names, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights.  Any litigation or claims brought by or against us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources.  A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, or any other successful challenge to the use of our intellectual property, could subject us to damages or prevent us from providing certain products or services, or using certain of our recognized brand names, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the event the Restated Marketing Agreement for consumer Roundup® products terminates, we would lose a substantial source of future earnings and overhead expense absorption.. If we (i) become insolvent, (ii) commit a material breach, material fraud or material misconduct under the Restated Marketing Agreement, (iii) experience a change of control of the Company (subject to certain exceptions), or (iv) impermissibly assign our rights or delegate our obligations under the Restated Marketing Agreement, Monsanto may terminate the Restated Marketing Agreement without paying a termination fee to the Company.  Monsanto may also terminate the Restated Marketing Agreement in the event of a change of control of Monsanto or a sale of the Roundup® business effective at the end of the fifth full year after providing notice of termination, but would have to pay a termination fee to the Company.  In the event the Restated Marketing. 15. Agreement terminates, we would lose all, or a substantial portion, of the significant source of earnings and overhead expense absorption the Restated Marketing Agreement provides.. For additional information regarding the Restated Marketing Agreement, see \"NOTE 6.  MARKETING AGREEMENT\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. beneficially owns approximately 26% of our Common Shares and can significantly influence decisions that require the approval of shareholders.. Hagedorn Partnership, L.P. beneficially owned approximately 26% of our outstanding Common Shares on a fully diluted basis as of November 24, 2017.  As a result, it has sufficient voting power to significantly influence the election of directors and the approval of other actions requiring the approval of our shareholders, including the entering into of certain business combination transactions.  In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in Hagedorn Partnership, L.P., elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of Hagedorn Partnership, L.P.  While all of our shareholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, the concentration of our Common Shares and voting control presently lies with Hagedorn Partnership, L.P.  As such, it would be difficult for shareholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by Hagedorn Partnership, L.P.  Hagedorn Partnership, L.P.'s interests could differ from, or be in conflict with, the interests of other shareholders.. While we have, over the past few years, increased the rate of cash dividends on, and engaged in repurchases of, our Common Shares, any future decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders or repurchasing our Common Shares pursuant to our previously announced repurchase program could cause the market price for our Common Shares to decline.. Our payment of quarterly cash dividends on and repurchase of our Common Shares pursuant to our stock repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors.  We have, over the past few years, increased the rate of cash dividends on, and repurchases of, our Common Shares.  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we increased the amount of our quarterly cash dividend by 6% to $0.53 per share.  The total remaining share repurchase authorization as of September 30, 2017 is $608.5 million.. We may further increase or decrease the rate of cash dividends on, and the amount of repurchases of, our Common Shares in the future.  Any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our Common Shares pursuant to our current share repurchase authorization program could cause the market price of our Common Shares to decline.  Moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends on or repurchases of our Common Shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends or repurchasing Common Shares at historical levels could result in a lower market valuation of our Common Shares.. Acquisitions, other strategic alliances and investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy and use of capital, and these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations.  We expect to continue to evaluate and enter into discussions regarding a wide array of potential strategic transactions.  The process of integrating an acquired company, business, or product has created, and will continue to create, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures.  The areas where we face risks include:. • Diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to acquisition integration challenges.. • Failure to successfully further develop the acquired business or product lines.. • Implementation or remediation of controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company.. • Integration of the acquired company's accounting, human resources and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering and sales and marketing functions.. • Transition of operations, users and customers onto our existing platforms.. • Reliance on the expertise of our strategic partners with respect to market development, sales, local regulatory compliance and other operational matters.. • Failure to obtain required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval, under competition and antitrust laws which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from. 16. completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition.. • In the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.. • Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire.. • Liability for or reputational harm from activities of the acquired company before the acquisition or from our strategic partners, including patent and trademark infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities.. • Litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former shareholders or other third parties.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments or strategic alliances could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, investments or alliances, incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally.. Our acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairment of goodwill and purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could harm our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows.  Also, the anticipated benefits of many of our acquisitions may not materialize.. A failure to dispose of assets or businesses in a timely manner may cause the results of the Company to suffer.. We evaluate as necessary the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help meet our objectives.  When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives.  Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated.  After reaching an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, we are subject to the satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, which may prevent us from completing the transaction.  Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations.  Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside our control could affect future financial results.. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and, while we cannot predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are involved in legal proceedings and are subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities, arising in the course of our business (see the discussion of Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).  Legal proceedings, in general, can be expensive and disruptive.  Some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts of damages, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years.  For example, product liability claims challenging the safety of our products may also result in a decline in sales for a particular product and could damage the reputation or the value of related brands.. From time to time, we are also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving contract, intellectual property and other matters.  We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome.  Substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur.  As a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid.  The outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations and, depending on the nature of the allegations, could negatively impact our reputation.  Additionally, defending against these legal proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources."
