[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results. The Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected by numerous risks.  Those of which we are aware are set forth below, but there could be risks of which we are not aware or risks that could be material  which are not identified as such at this time.  Carefully consider the risks described below, which represent some of the more critical risk factors that affect the Company, as well as the other information that has been provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The risks described below include all known material risks faced by the Company of which management is aware at. 17. Table of Contents. this time.  Additional risks and circumstances, not presently known to management, or perceived as a threat, may exist or materialize and could also impair the Company's business operations.. Difficult economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company.  The success of the Company's business is both directly and indirectly dependent upon conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world that are outside its control and difficult to predict.  Factors such as commodity prices, interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, availability and cost of labor, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), elimination or imposition of trade barriers and protective rules, currency exchange rates and controls, and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations) can have a material negative impact on the Company's business and investments, which could reduce its revenues and profitability.  Uncertainty about global economic conditions may lead or require businesses to postpone capital spending in response to tighter credit and reductions in income or asset values and to cancel or renegotiate existing contracts because their access to capital is impeded.  This would in turn affect the Company's profitability or results of operations. These factors may also adversely affect the Company's liquidity and financial condition and the liquidity and financial condition of the Company's customers.  Volatility in the conditions of the global economic markets can also affect the Company's ability to raise capital at attractive prices.  The Company's ongoing exposure to credit risks on its accounts receivable balances are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen.  The Company has procedures that are designed to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its receivables; however, there can be no assurance that such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  Unstable economic conditions may also increase the volatility of the Company's stock price.. Changes in U.S. policies governing foreign trade, international travel, immigration, manufacturing and foreign investment could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, travel to and from the United States, immigration, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries in which the Company operates, and any negative sentiments towards the United States as a result of such changes, could adversely affect the domestic and global transportation services industry, which could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. There are risks associated with the Company's debt structure.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $579.3 million of consolidated indebtedness.  The Company's ability to meet its debt service obligations and refinance its indebtedness is dependent upon its ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales, which are subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles, seasonality and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond its control.  The Company's debt levels and the terms of its indebtedness may limit its liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and pursuing other business opportunities due to difficulties accessing the credit and capital markets.  If the Company is unable to repay or refinance its debt as it becomes due, it may be forced to sell assets or take other disadvantageous actions, including undertaking alternative financing plans, which may have onerous terms or may be unavailable, reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes or dedicating an unsustainable level of its cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness.. Revenues from Ocean Services could be adversely affected by a decline in demand for domestic refined petroleum products, crude oil or chemical products, or a change in existing methods of delivery.  A reduction in domestic consumption of refined petroleum products, crude oil or chemical products, the development of alternative methods of delivery of refined petroleum products or crude oil, or an increase in domestic refining capacity could reduce demand for the Company's services.. Construction of additional refined petroleum product, natural gas or crude oil pipelines could have a material adverse effect on Ocean Services' revenues.  Long-haul transportation of refined petroleum products, crude oil and natural gas is generally less costly by pipeline than by ship.  Existing pipeline systems are either insufficient to meet demand in, or do not reach, all of the markets served by Ocean Services' petroleum and chemical carriers.  The construction and operation of new pipeline segments could have a material adverse effect on Ocean Services' business.. Failure to maintain an acceptable safety record may have an adverse impact on the Company's ability to retain customers.  The Company's customers consider safety and reliability a primary concern in selecting a service provider.  The Company must maintain a record of safety and reliability that is acceptable to its customers.  Should this not be achieved, the ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be adversely affected, which in turn could affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Adverse results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company.  The Company is subject to and may in the future be subject to a variety of legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of its business.  Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.  Irrespective of its merits, litigation may be both lengthy and disruptive to the Company's operations and may cause significant expenditure and diversion of management attention.  If the Company suffers an adverse judgment, it may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against it that could materially adversely affect a portion of its business operations or materially and adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 18. Table of Contents. The Company may undertake one or more significant corporate transactions that may not achieve their intended results, produce less than expected returns, may be dilutive to existing businesses, may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and its results of operations, and may result in additional risks to its businesses.  The Company continuously evaluates the acquisition and disposition of operating businesses and assets and may in the future undertake significant transactions.  Any such transaction could be material to the Company's business and could take any number of forms, including mergers, joint ventures, investments in new lines of business and the purchase of equity interests or assets.  The form of consideration associated with such transactions may include, among other things, cash, common stock or equity interests in the Company's subsidiaries.  The Company also evaluates the disposition of its operating businesses and assets, in whole or in part, which could take the form of asset sales, mergers or sales of equity interests in its subsidiaries (privately or through a public offering), or the spin-off of equity interests of the Company's subsidiaries to its stockholders.  For instance, on June 1, 2017, the Company effected a spin-off of its offshore marine services business, SEACOR Marine, to its stockholders and on July 3, 2017, the Company effected the sale of its 70% interest in Illinois Corn Processing LLC (\"ICP\"), the company that operated SEACOR's Illinois Corn Processing business segment.  In connection with significant corporate transactions, the Company may agree to indemnify other parties to such transactions, which may subject the Company to significant liability.  For example, pursuant to the ICP merger agreement, the Company agreed to indemnify the purchaser of its interests in ICP against certain losses.. These types of significant transactions may present significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed, potential loss of significant revenue and income streams, unexpected expenses, inadequate return of capital, potential acceleration of taxes currently deferred, regulatory or compliance issues, the triggering of certain covenants in the Company's debt instruments (including accelerated repayment) and other unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence.  As a result of the risks inherent in such transactions, the Company cannot guarantee that any such transaction will ultimately result in the realization of the anticipated benefits of the transaction or that significant transactions will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition or its results of operations.  If the Company were to complete such an acquisition, disposition, investment or other strategic transaction, it may require additional debt or equity financing that could result in a significant increase in its amount of debt or the number of outstanding shares of its Common Stock.. If there is a determination that the SMHI Spin-Off was taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, then the Company and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.  The SMHI Spin-Off was conditioned upon the Company's receipt of an opinion of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, counsel to the Company, substantially to the effect that the separation qualifies as a transaction that is described in Section 355 of the Code.  The opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from the Company and SEACOR Marine regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters.  If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect, the Company and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the opinion of counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.  Notwithstanding the opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of the Company or SEACOR Marine after the separation.  If the separation is determined to be taxable, the Company and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.. Prior to the SMHI Spin-Off, the Company and SEACOR Marine entered into a tax matters agreement (the \"SMHI Tax Matters Agreement\") that governs the parties' respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to taxes, tax attributes, the preparation and filing of tax returns, the control of audits and other tax proceedings and assistance and cooperation in respect of tax matters.  Taxes relating to or arising out of the failure of the separation to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes are the responsibility of the Company, except, in general, if such failure is attributable to SEACOR Marine's action or inaction.. The Company's obligations under the SMHI Tax Matters Agreement are not limited in amount or subject to any cap.  Further, even if the Company is not responsible for its tax liabilities under the SMHI Tax Matters Agreement, the Company nonetheless could be liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities if SEACOR Marine were to fail to pay them.  If the Company is required to pay any liabilities under the circumstances set forth in the SMHI Tax Matters Agreement or pursuant to applicable tax law, the amounts may be significant.. Investment in new business strategies and initiatives present risks not originally contemplated.  The Company has invested, and in the future may again invest, in new business plans or acquisitions, some of which may not be directly linked to existing business lines or activities.  These activities may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the plans or acquisitions, inadequate return of capital and unidentified issues not discovered in due diligence.  Investments in these positions also may involve securities or other assets that are not very liquid.  As a result of the risks inherent in new ventures, there can be. 19. Table of Contents. no assurance that any such venture will be successful, or that new ventures will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's operations are subject to certain foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity and commodity price risks.  The Company is exposed to certain foreign currency, interest rate, fixed-income, equity and commodity price risks and although some of these risks may be hedged, fluctuations could impact the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  For instance, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar results in higher prices for U.S. exports, which may adversely affect Inland Services and Ocean Services' operating results.  The Company has, and anticipates that it will continue to have, contracts denominated in foreign currencies.  It is often not practicable for the Company to effectively hedge the entire risk of significant changes in currency rates.  The Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows have been negatively impacted for certain periods and positively impacted for other periods, and may continue to be affected to a material extent by the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.  For example, further strengthening of the U.S. dollar could give rise to reduced prices from shipyards and incentivize additional investment in new equipment in the shipping and marine services markets notwithstanding the current state of such markets.  The Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows may also be affected by the cost of hedging activities that the Company undertakes.  The Company holds a large proportion of its net assets in cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable securities.  Such investments subject the Company to risks generally inherent in the capital markets.  Given the relatively high proportion of the Company's liquid assets relative to its overall size, its financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially affected by the results of the Company's capital management and investment activities and the risks associated with those activities.  Volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty also increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on the Company's marketable securities could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them.  In addition, changes in interest rates may have an adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  Specifically, rising interest rates, including a potential rapid rise in interest rates, could increase the Company's cost of capital.. The Company engages in hedging activities which expose it to risks.  For corporate purposes and also as part of its trading activities, the Company has in the past and may in the future use futures and swaps to hedge risks, such as escalation in fuel costs and movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.  However, hedging activities can result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market.  Such purchases expose the Company to risks of meeting margin calls and drawing on its capital, counterparty risk due to failure of an exchange or institution with which it has entered into a swap, incurring higher costs than competitors or similar businesses that do not engage in such strategies, and losses on its investment portfolio.  Such strategies can also cause earnings to be volatile.  If the Company fails to offset such volatility, its results of operations, cash flows and financial position may be adversely affected.. The Company could incur liability in connection with its provision of spill response services.  On April 22, 2010, the Deepwater Horizon, a semi-submersible deepwater drilling rig operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, sank after an apparent blowout and fire resulting in a significant flow of hydrocarbons from the BP Macondo well (the \"Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident\").  The Company provided spill and emergency response services in connection with the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident.  O'Brien's Response Management, L.L.C. (\"ORM\"), a subsidiary of the Company, and National Response Corporation (\"NRC\"), which was a subsidiary of the Company at the time of the incident operating in the Company's now discontinued Environmental Services segment (the Company subsequently sold NRC to J.F. Lehman & Company (\"JFL\")) are currently defendants in litigation arising from the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident.  Although companies are generally exempt in the United States from liability under the CWA for their own actions and omissions in providing spill response services, this exemption might not apply if a company were found to have been grossly negligent or to have engaged in willful misconduct, or if it were to have failed to provide these services consistent with the National Contingency Plan or as otherwise directed under the CWA.  In addition, the exemption under the CWA would not protect a company against liability for personal injury or wrongful death claims, or against prosecution under other federal or state laws.  All of the coastal states of the United States in which the Company provides services have adopted similar exemptions, but, several inland states have not.  If a court or other applicable authority were to determine that the Company does not benefit from federal or state exemptions from liability in providing emergency response services, or if the other defenses asserted by the Company and its business segments are rejected, the Company could be liable together with the local contractor and the responsible party for any resulting damages, including damages caused by others, subject to the indemnification provisions and other liability terms and conditions negotiated with its domestic customers.  In the international market, the Company does not benefit from the spill response liability protection provided by the CWA and, therefore, is subject to the liability terms and conditions negotiated with its international clients, in addition to any other defenses available to the Company and its business segments.  In connection with claims relating to clean-up operations following the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident, the responsible party acknowledged and agreed to indemnify and defend ORM and NRC pursuant and subject to certain contractual agreements.  See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\". If Congress repeals the current $134.0 million cap for non-reclamation liabilities under OPA 90 or otherwise scales back the protections afforded to contractors thereunder, there may be increased exposure for remediation work and the cost for securing insurance for such work may become prohibitively expensive.  Without affordable insurance and appropriate legislative regulation. 20. Table of Contents. limiting liability, drilling, exploration, remediation and further investment in oil and gas exploration in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico may be discouraged and thus reduce the demand for the Company's services.. The Company could incur liability in connection with certain obligations relating to the Deepwater Horizon incident.  In connection with the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident, BP Exploration & Production, Inc. and BP America Production Company (collectively, the \"responsible party\") engaged the services of ORM and NRC.  ORM and NRC were subsequently made defendants in litigation arising from the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident.  In connection with claims relating to clean-up operations following the Deepwater Horizon/BP Macondo Well Incident, the responsible party acknowledged and agreed to indemnify and defend ORM and NRC pursuant and subject to certain contractual agreements and potential limitations.  No assurance can be given that the responsible party will honor its obligation to indemnify the Company under these arrangements.  If the responsible party were to fail to honor its obligations, the Company may be faced with significant monetary payments that could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Negative publicity may adversely impact the Company.  Media coverage and public statements that insinuate improper actions by the Company or senior executives, regardless of their factual accuracy or truthfulness, may result in negative publicity, litigation or governmental investigations by regulators.  Addressing negative publicity and any resulting litigation or investigations may distract management, increase costs, impede hiring and divert resources.  Negative publicity may have an adverse impact on the Company's reputation and the morale of its employees, which could adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Risks from the Company's international operations.  The Company operates vessels and transacts other business worldwide.  Its ability to compete in international markets may be adversely affected by foreign government regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local competitors, or that require foreign persons to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction.  Further, the Company's foreign subsidiaries may face governmentally imposed restrictions on their ability to transfer funds to their parent company.. Activity outside the United States involves additional risks, including the possibility of:. • United States embargoes or restrictive actions by U.S. and foreign governments that could limit the Company's ability to provide services in foreign countries or cause retaliatory actions by such governments;. • a change in, or the imposition of, withholding or other taxes on foreign income, tariffs or restrictions on foreign trade and investment;. • limitations on the repatriation of earnings or currency exchange controls and import/export quotas;. • unwaivable, burdensome local cabotage and local ownership laws and requirements;. • nationalization, expropriation, asset seizure, blockades and blacklisting;. • limitations in the availability, amount or terms of insurance coverage;. • loss of contract rights and inability to enforce contracts;. • political instability, war and civil disturbances or other risks that may limit or disrupt markets, such as terrorist acts, piracy and kidnapping;. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange that affect demand for the Company's services and its profitability;. • potential noncompliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the \"FCPA\"), and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010;. • labor strikes;. • import or export quotas and other forms of public and government regulation;. • changes in general economic and political conditions; and. • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations.. The United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") held a referendum on June 23, 2016 regarding its membership in the European Union (the \"E.U.\") in which a majority of the U.K. electorate voted in favor of the British government taking the necessary action for the U.K. to withdraw from the E.U. (the \"Brexit\").  On March 29, 2017, the U.K. notified the E.U. that it intended to withdraw from the E.U. as provided in Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union (\"Article 50\").  The terms of the withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years from the withdrawal notification date.  This will be either accompanied or followed by additional negotiations between the E.U. and the U.K. concerning the future relations between the parties.. 21. Table of Contents. The Company faces risks associated with the uncertainty following the referendum, the Article 50 notification and the consequences that may result from the decision to exit the E.U.  Among other things, the U.K.'s decision to leave the E.U., along with calls for the governments of other E.U. member states to also consider withdrawal, has caused, and is anticipated to continue to cause, significant new uncertainties and instability in European and global financial markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may affect the Company and the trading price of the Company's Common Stock.  In addition, the exit of the U.K. from the E.U. could lead to legal and regulatory uncertainty and potentially divergent treaties, laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. treaties, laws and regulations to replace or replicate, including those governing maritime, labor, environmental, competition and other matters applicable to the provision of support vessel services.  The impact on the Company's business of any treaties, laws and regulations with and in the U.K. that replace the existing E.U. counterparts cannot be predicted.  Any of these effects, and others the Company cannot anticipate, could materially adversely affect its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Ocean Services, Inland Services and Witt O'Brien's rely on several customers and marketing agreements for a significant share of their revenues, the loss of any of which could adversely affect each of their businesses and operating results.  As of December 31, 2017, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's operating revenues.  The portion of Ocean Services, Inland Services and Witt O'Brien's revenues attributable to any single customer may change over time, depending on the level of relevant activity by any such customer, the segment's ability to meet the customer's needs and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control.  The loss of business from any of the Company's significant customers could have a material adverse effect on such segment's or the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Further, to the extent any of the Company's customers experience an extended period of operating difficulty, its revenues, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely effected.. Consolidation of the Company's customer base could adversely affect demand for its services and reduce its revenues.  In recent years, oil and natural gas companies and energy companies have undergone substantial consolidation and additional consolidation is possible.  Consolidation results in fewer companies to charter or contract for the Company's services, which could adversely affect demand for the Company's petroleum and chemical carriers thereby reducing the Company's revenues.. An increase in the supply of vessels, barges or equipment the Company operates could have an adverse impact on the rates earned by the Company's vessels, barges and equipment.  The Company's industry is highly competitive, with oversupply and intense price competition.  Expansion of the supply of vessels, barges and equipment would increase competition in the markets in which the Company operates.  The refurbishment of disused or \"mothballed\" vessels and barges, conversion of vessels from other uses or construction of new vessels, barges and equipment could all add vessel, barge and equipment capacity to current worldwide levels.  A significant increase in vessel, barge and equipment capacity could lower rates and result in lower operating revenues.. If the Company does not restrict the amount of ownership of its Common Stock by non-U.S. citizens, it could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels and barges and tankers in the United States, which would adversely impact its business and operating results.  The Company is subject to the Jones Act, which governs, among other things, the ownership and operation of vessels used to carry cargo between U.S. ports.  Subject to limited exceptions, the Jones Act requires that vessels engaged in the U.S. coastwise trade be built in the United States, registered under the U.S.-flag and manned by predominantly U.S. crews.  The Jones Act also requires that vessels engaged in coastwise trade be owned and operated by \"U.S. citizens\" within the meaning of the Jones Act.  Compliance with the Jones Act requires that non-U.S. citizens own no more than 25% of the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels that the Company operates in the U.S. coastwise trade.  Although SEACOR's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws contain provisions intended to assure compliance with these provisions of the Jones Act, a failure to maintain compliance would adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could temporarily or permanently prohibit the Company from operating vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade.  In addition, the Company could be subject to fines and its vessels could be subject to seizure and forfeiture for violations of the Jones Act and the related U.S. vessel documentation laws.. Repeal, Amendment, Suspension or Non-Enforcement of the Jones Act would result in additional competition for Ocean Services and Inland Services and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.  A substantial portion of the operations of Ocean Services and Inland Services are conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade and thus subject to the provisions of the Jones Act (as discussed above).  For years there have been attempts to repeal or amend such provisions, and such attempts are expected to continue in the future.  For example, in a congressional review of Puerto Rico's financial circumstances and following Hurricane Maria, several proponents of repealing the Jones Act offered bills to exempt the island from the Jones Act.  Although the proposals were limited in scope and failed, there is a risk that such legislation could be reintroduced by the special committee tasked with overseeing Puerto Rico's financial reorganization, which could lead to broader legislation affecting other aspects of the Jones Act.. Under certain conditions, the U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security can grant waivers of the Jones Act to foreign vessel operators.  Thus far, the Secretary has granted waivers only for relatively short periods in connection with natural disasters and. 22. Table of Contents. the transportation of petroleum released from the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  Nonetheless, future waivers, particularly if for longer periods, could result in increased competition, which could negatively impact the Company's Jones Act operations.. Repeal, substantial amendment or waiver of provisions of the Jones Act could significantly adversely affect the Company by, among other things, resulting in additional competition from competitors with lower operating costs, because of their ability to use vessels built in lower-cost foreign shipyards, owned and manned by foreign nationals with promotional foreign tax incentives and with lower wages and benefits than U.S. citizens.  In addition, the Company's advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded by periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act.  If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the shipping of maritime cargo between covered U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels.  Because foreign vessels may have lower construction costs and operate at significantly lower costs than companies operating in the U.S. coastwise trade, such a change could significantly increase competition in the U.S. coastwise trade, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's investment in Jones Act petroleum and chemical carriers could be negatively impacted if the Jones Act is suspended or repealed, or if the price of natural gas increase to levels that reduce the competitiveness of U.S. refineries.  The investment in Jones Act product carriers could also be improvident if all existing tankers and tank barges are replaced with additional newly built equipment when they come to the end of their economic life.  The repeal on December 18, 2015 of the law previously restricting the export of U.S. crude oil may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  The Company also has a significant investment in a company that uses specialized vessels in the foreign Liquefied Petroleum Gas (\"LPG\") trade.  If the expected rise in production of LPG in the U.S. does not occur, or if most of the production of LPG is consumed domestically in petrochemical plants, or if the price of propane and butane increases to levels that lower demand, this investment may decrease in value.. Restrictions on non-U.S. citizen ownership of the Company's vessels could limit its ability to sell off any portion of its business or result in the forfeiture of its vessels.  As noted above, compliance with the Jones Act requires that non-U.S. citizens own no more than 25% in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels that the Company operates in the U.S. coastwise trade.  If the Company were to seek to sell any portion of its business that owns any of these vessels, it would have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the U.S. citizenship restrictions described above.  As a result, the sales price for that portion of the Company's business may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unconstrained bidding.  Furthermore, if at any point the Company or any of the entities that directly or indirectly own its vessels cease to satisfy the requirements to be a U.S. citizen within the meaning of the Jones Act, the Company would become ineligible to operate in the U.S. coastwise trade and may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of its vessels.. SEACOR's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws limit the ownership of Common Stock by individuals and entities that are not U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act. These restrictions may affect the liquidity of SEACOR's Common Stock and may result in non-U.S. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss or relinquish their voting, dividend and distribution rights.  Under the Jones Act, at least 75% of the outstanding shares of each class or series of SEACOR's capital stock must be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act.  Certain provisions of SEACOR's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws are intended to facilitate compliance with this requirement and may have an adverse effect on holders of shares of the Common Stock.  In addition, the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 and the 3.0% Convertible Notes due 2028 issued by the Company have controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with the Jones Act.. Under the provisions of SEACOR's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, the aggregate percentage of ownership by non-U.S. citizens of any class of SEACOR's capital stock (including Common Stock) is limited to 22.5% of the outstanding shares of each such class to ensure that such ownership by non-U.S. citizens will not exceed the maximum percentage permitted by the Jones Act, which is presently 25%.  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws authorizes SEACOR's Board of Directors, under certain circumstances, to increase the foregoing permitted percentage to no more than 24%.  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation further provides that any issuance or transfer of shares to non-U.S. citizens in excess of such permitted percentage shall be ineffective as against the Company and that neither the Company nor its transfer agent shall register such purported issuance or transfer of shares to non-U.S. citizens or be required to recognize the purported transferee or owner as a stockholder of the Company for any purpose whatsoever except to exercise the Company's remedies.  Any such excess shares in the hands of a non-U.S. citizen shall not have any voting or dividend rights and are subject to redemption by the Company in its discretion.  The liquidity or market value of the shares of Common Stock may be adversely impacted by such transfer restrictions.. As a result of the above provisions, a proposed transferee of the Common Stock that is a non-U.S. citizen may not receive any return on its investment in shares it purportedly purchases or owns, as the case may be, and it may sustain a loss.  The Company, in its discretion, is entitled to redeem all or any portion of such shares most recently acquired (as determined by its Board of Directors in accordance with guidelines that are set forth in its Restated Certificate of Incorporation) by non-U.S. citizens in excess. 23. Table of Contents. of such maximum permitted percentage for such class or series at a redemption price based on a fair market value formula that is set forth in the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which may be paid in cash or promissory notes at the discretion of the Company.  Such excess shares shall also not be accorded any voting, dividend or distribution rights until they have ceased to be excess shares, provided that they have not been already redeemed by the Company.  As a result of these provisions, a purported stockholder who is not a U.S. citizen within the meaning of the Jones Act may be required to sell its shares of Common Stock at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on its investment in such shares.  Further, the Company may have to incur additional indebtedness, or use available cash (if any), to fund all or a portion of such redemption, in which case the Company's financial condition may be materially weakened.. So that the Company may ensure its compliance with the Jones Act, its Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws permit it to require that owners of any shares of its capital stock provide confirmation of their citizenship.  In the event that a person does not submit such documentation to the Company, its Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws provide the Company with certain remedies, including the suspension of the payment of dividends and distributions with respect to those shares and deposit of any such dividends and distributions into an escrow account.  As a result of non-compliance with these provisions, an owner of the shares of the Company's Common Stock may lose significant rights associated with those shares.. In addition to the risks described above, the foregoing foreign ownership restrictions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that might involve a premium price for the Company's Common Stock or otherwise be in the best interest of the Company's stockholders.. If non-U.S. citizens own more than 22.5% of SEACOR's Common Stock, the Company may not have the funds or the ability to redeem any excess shares and it could be forced to suspend its operations in the U.S. coastwise trade.  SEACOR's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws contain provisions prohibiting ownership of its Common Stock by persons who are not U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act, in the aggregate, in excess of 22.5% of such shares in order to ensure that such ownership by non-U.S. citizens will not exceed the maximum percentage permitted by the Jones Act, which is presently 25%.  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation permits the Company to redeem such excess shares, including those shares issued upon conversion or exchange of the Company's convertible notes.  The per share redemption price may be paid, as determined by the Company's Board of Directors, by cash or promissory notes.  However, the Company may not be able to redeem such excess shares for cash because its operations may not have generated sufficient excess cash flow to fund such redemption.  If, for any reason, the Company is unable to effect such a redemption when such ownership of shares by non-U.S. citizens is in excess of 25.0% of the Common Stock, or otherwise prevent non-U.S. citizens in the aggregate from owning shares in excess of 25.0% of any such class or series of the Company's capital stock, or fail to exercise its redemption rights because it is unaware that such ownership exceeds such percentage, the Company will likely be unable to comply with the Jones Act and will likely be required by the applicable governmental authorities to suspend its operations in the U.S. coastwise trade.  Any such actions by governmental authorities would have a severely detrimental impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's U.S-flag vessels are subject to requisition for ownership or use by the United States in case of national emergency or national defense need and certain of our vessels participate in the U.S. Maritime Security Program.  The Merchant Marine Act of 1936 provides that, during a national emergency declared by Presidential proclamation or a period for which the President has proclaimed that the security of the national defense makes it advisable, the Secretary of Transportation may requisition the ownership or use of any vessel owned by U.S. citizens (which includes the Company) and any vessel under construction in the United States.  If any of the Company's vessels were purchased or chartered by the federal government under this law, the Company would be entitled to just compensation, which is generally the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a charter, the fair market value of charter hire, but the Company would not be entitled to compensation for any consequential damages it may suffer.  In addition, we operate vessels that participate in the MSP, which ensures that militarily useful U.S.-flag vessels are available to the U.S. Department of Defense in the event of war or national emergency.  Under the program, we receive an annual fee, subject to annual Congressional appropriations, in exchange for a guarantee that the vessels will be made available to the U.S. government in the time of war or national emergency.  The purchase, charter or use for an extended period of time by the federal government of one or more of the Company's vessels under this law could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company is subject to hazards customary for the operation of vessels that could disrupt operations and expose the Company to liability.  The operation of petroleum and chemical carriers, short-sea container, RollOn/RollOff vessels, Pure Car/Truck Carriers, dry bulk carriers, towboats, tugs and barges is subject to various risks, including catastrophic disaster, adverse weather, mechanical failure and collision.  For instance, the Company's operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea may be adversely affected by weather.  The Atlantic hurricane season runs from June through November.  Tropical storms and hurricanes may limit the Company's ability to operate its vessels in the proximity of storms, reduce development and production activity, could result in the Company incurring additional expenses to secure equipment and facilities and may require the Company to evacuate its vessels, personnel and equipment out of the path of a storm.  Additional risks to vessels include adverse sea conditions, capsizing, grounding, oil and hazardous substance spills and navigation errors.  These risks could endanger. 24. Table of Contents. the safety of the Company's personnel, equipment, cargo and other property, as well as the environment.  If any of these events were to occur, the Company could be held liable for resulting damages, including loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, higher insurance rates, increased operating costs, increased governmental regulation and reporting and damage to the Company's reputation and customer relationships.  Any such events would likely result in negative publicity for the Company and adversely affect its safety record, which would affect demand for the Company's services in a competitive industry.  In addition, the affected vessels could be removed from service and would then not be available to generate revenues.. The Company is subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.  Increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws and regulations governing worker safety and health and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect the Company's operations.  Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation and oversight, including by the USCG, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (\"OSHA\"), NTSB, EPA, IMO, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Maritime Administration, the CBP and state environmental protection agencies for those jurisdictions in which the Company operates, and to regulation by states, port authorities and classification societies (such as the American Bureau of Shipping).  The Company is also subject to regulation under international treaties, such as SOLAS, MARPOL, and the STCW.  These agencies, organizations, regulations and treaties establish safety requirements and standards and are authorized to investigate vessels and accidents and to recommend improved safety standards.  The CBP and USCG are authorized to inspect vessels at will.  The Company has and will continue to spend significant funds to comply with these regulations and treaties. Failure to comply with these regulations and treaties may cause the Company to incur significant liabilities or restrictions on its operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's business and operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and occupational safety and health, including laws that that govern the discharge of oil and pollutants into waters restricted thereunder.  Violations of these laws may result in civil and criminal penalties, fines, injunctions, or other sanctions, or the suspension or termination of the Company's operations.  Compliance with such laws and regulations frequently requires installation of costly equipment, increased manning, specific training, or operational changes, and the phase-out of certain vessels.  Some environmental laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous materials and damage to natural resources, which could subject the Company to liability without regard to whether it was negligent or at fault.  Under OPA 90, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the removal costs and damages resulting from the discharge of oil within the navigable waters of the United States and the EEZ around the United States.  In addition, an oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource and other damages under other federal and state laws and civil actions.  Liability for a catastrophic spill could exceed the Company's available insurance coverage and result in it having to liquidate assets to pay claims.  These laws and regulations may expose the Company to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, including charterers.  Because such laws and regulations frequently change and may impose increasingly strict requirements, the Company cannot predict the ongoing cost of complying with these laws and regulations.  The recent trend in environmental legislation and regulation is generally toward stricter standards.  The Company cannot be certain that existing laws, regulations or standards, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or future laws and regulations and standards will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  Regulation of the shipping industry will likely continue to become more stringent and more expensive for the Company.  In addition, a serious marine incident that results in significant oil pollution could result in additional regulation and lead to strict governmental enforcement or other legal challenges.  The variability and uncertainty of current and future shipping regulations could hamper the ability of the Company and its customers to plan for the future or establish long-term strategies.  Additional environmental and other requirements, as well as more stringent enforcement policies, may be adopted that could limit the Company's ability to operate, require the Company to incur substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition.  For more information, see \"Item 1. Government Regulation - Environmental Compliance.\". The Company is required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain, maintain and periodically renew certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to its operations or vessels.  In certain instances, the failure to obtain, maintain or renew these authorizations could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. There are risks associated with climate change and environmental regulations.  Governments around the world have, in recent years, placed increasing attention on matters affecting the environment and this could lead to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that in turn could result in a reduction in demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel.  In fact, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  These regulatory measures or international treaties may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy and could include specific restrictions on shipping emissions.  The 2015 United Nations climate change conference in Paris resulted in the Paris Agreement, which entered into force on November 4, 2016.  The Paris Agreement was signed by the United States in 2016. 25. Table of Contents. but, in August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the United States' intent to withdraw.  The Paris Agreement does not directly limit greenhouse gas emissions from ships.. Governments could also pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources such as wind power and solar energy.  These requirements could reduce demand for and increase the cost of oil and natural gas and therefore impact services provided by the Company.  In addition, new environmental or emissions control laws or regulations may require an increase in the Company's operating costs and/or in the Company's capital spending for additional equipment or personnel to comply with such requirements and could also result in a reduction in revenues due to downtime required for the installation of such equipment.  Such initiatives could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Increased security and inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business.  Maritime shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination.  Applicable inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of the Company's vessels, delays in delivering cargoes, and the levying of customs payments, duties, fines and other penalties.  The U.S. government, foreign governments, international organizations, and industry associations have from time-to-time considered ways to expand inspection procedures.  Such changes, if implemented, could impose additional financial and legal obligations on the Company, including additional responsibility for physically inspecting the contents of cargoes it is shipping.  Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on the Company's customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical.  Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Inland Services' results of operations could be adversely affected by international economic and political factors.  The actions of foreign governments could affect the import and export of the dry bulk commodities typically transported by Inland Services.  Foreign trade agreements and each country's adherence to the terms of such agreements can raise or lower demand for U.S. imports and exports of the dry bulk commodities that Inland Services transports.  National and international boycotts and embargoes of other countries or U.S. imports or exports together with the raising or lowering of tariff rates could affect the demand for the transportation of cargoes handled by Inland Services.  These actions or developments could have an adverse impact on Inland Services.. Inland Services could experience variation in freight rates.  Freight transportation rates may fluctuate as the volume of cargo and availability of barges change.  The volume of freight transported on inland waterways may vary as a result of various factors, such as global economic conditions and business cycles, domestic and international agricultural production and demand, and foreign currency exchange rates.  Barge participation in the industry can also vary year-to-year and is dependent on the number of barges built and retired from service.  Extended periods of high barge availability and low cargo demand could adversely impact Inland Services.. Inland Services' results of operations could be adversely affected by the decline in U.S. grain exports.  Inland Services' business is significantly affected by the volume of grain exports handled through ports in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.  Grain exports can vary due to a number of factors including crop harvest yield levels in the United States and abroad, and the demand for grain in the United States.  A shortage of available grain overseas can increase demand for U.S. grain.  Conversely, an abundance of grain overseas can decrease demand for U.S. grain.  A decline in exports could result in excess barge capacity, which would likely lower freight rates earned by Inland Services.. Inland Services' results of operations are affected by seasonal activity.  Inland Services' business is seasonal, and its quarterly revenues and profits have historically been lower in the first and second quarters of the year and higher in the third and fourth quarters, during the grain harvest.. Inland Services' results of operations are affected by adverse weather and river conditions.  Weather patterns, such as excessive rainfall or drought, can affect river levels and cause ice conditions during winter months, which can hamper barge navigation.  Locks and dams on river systems may be closed for maintenance or other causes, which may delay barge movements.  These conditions could adversely impact Inland Services.. The aging infrastructure on the U.S. Inland Waterways may lead to increased costs and disruptions in Inland Services' operations.  Many of the locks and dams on the U.S. Inland Waterways were built early in the last century, and their age makes them costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled maintenance outages.  Delays caused by malfunctioning locks and dams could increase Inland Services' operating costs and delay the delivery of cargoes.  Moreover, in the future, increased taxes could be imposed on users of the U.S. Inland Waterways to fund necessary infrastructure improvements, and such increases may not be recoverable by Inland Services through pricing increases.  In addition, infrastructure improvements in other such modes of transportation could result in increased competition for inland barge transport relative to other modes of transportation if such other modes of transportation become more economical or accessible.  The foregoing risks could make inland barge transport less competitive than rail and other modes of transportation.. 26. Table of Contents. Inland Services' results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by fuel price fluctuations.  For the most part, Inland Services purchases towboat and fleeting services from third party vendors.  The price of these services can rise when fuel prices escalate and could adversely impact Inland Services' results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect it from the liabilities that could arise in its businesses.  Although the Company maintains insurance coverage against the risks related to its businesses, risks may arise for which the Company may not be insured.  Claims covered by insurance are subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material.  Insurance policies are also subject to compliance with certain conditions, the failure of which could lead to a denial of coverage as to a particular claim or the voiding of a particular insurance policy.  There also can be no assurance that existing insurance coverage can be renewed at commercially reasonable rates or that available coverage will be adequate to cover future claims.  If a loss occurs that is partially or completely uninsured, the Company could be exposed to substantial liability.  Further, to the extent the proceeds from insurance are not sufficient to repair or replace a damaged asset, the Company would be required to expend funds to supplement the insurance and in certain circumstances may decide that such expenditures are not justified, which, in either case, could adversely affect its liquidity and ability to grow.. The Company's inability to attract and retain qualified personnel and crew its vessels could have an adverse effect on its business.  Attracting and retaining skilled personnel across all of the Company's business segments is an important factor in its future success.  In addition, the success of the Company is dependent upon its ability to crew its vessels.  The market for qualified personnel is highly competitive and the Company cannot be certain that it will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel and crewing its vessels in the future.. The Company's success depends on key members of our management, the loss of whom could disrupt our business operations.  The Company depends to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of its executive officers and key management personnel.  The Company does not maintain key-man insurance.  The loss of services of one or more of the Company's executive officers or key management personnel could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The failure to successfully complete construction or conversion of the Company's vessels, repairs, maintenance or routine dry-dockings on schedule and on budget could adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  From time to time, the Company may have a number of vessels under conversion and may plan to construct or convert other vessels in response to current and future market conditions.  The Company also routinely engages shipyards to dry-dock vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance.  Construction and conversion projects and dry-dockings are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor.  A significant delay in either construction or dry-dockings could have a material adverse effect on contract commitments and revenues with respect to vessels under construction, conversion or undergoing dry-dockings.  Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction, conversion or retrofit could also adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. A violation of the FCPA may adversely affect the Company's business and operations.  In order to effectively compete in certain foreign jurisdictions, the Company seeks to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners.  As a U.S. corporation, the Company is subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or maintaining business.  The Company has adopted stringent procedures to enforce compliance with the FCPA.  Nevertheless, the Company does business and may do additional business in the future in countries and regions where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may not be customary and it may be held liable for actions taken by its strategic or local partners even though these partners may not be subject to the FCPA.  The Company's personnel and intermediaries, including its local operators and strategic partners, may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by government officials, political parties and officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, or private entities in the countries in which the Company operates or may operate in the future.  As a result, the Company faces the risk that an unauthorized payment or offer of payment could be made by one of its employees or intermediaries, even if such parties are not always subject to the Company's control or are not themselves subject to the FCPA or other similar laws to which the Company may be subject.  Any allegation or determination that the Company has violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's business and stock price may be materially adversely affected if its internal control over financial reporting is not effective.  Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules promulgated by the SEC, companies are required to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting.  As part of this process, the Company is required to document and test its internal control over financial reporting; management is required to assess and issue a report concerning the Company's internal control over financial reporting; and the Company's independent registered certified public accounting firm is required to attest on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.  In the past, the Company has identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting.  While all such identified material weaknesses have been remediated, there can be no assurance that the Company will not identify material weaknesses in. 27. Table of Contents. its internal control in the future.  Moreover, the Company's internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud.  Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in the Company's financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, which could cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations, lead to a loss of investor confidence and have a negative impact on the trading price of the Company's Common Stock.. The Company relies on information technology, and if it is unable to protect against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, its operations could be disrupted and its business could be negatively affected.  The Company relies on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic and financial information; to capture knowledge of its business; to coordinate its business across its operation bases; and to communicate within the Company and with customers, suppliers, partners and other third-parties.  These information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns, hardware or software failures, power outages, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events.  Our technology systems are also subject to cybersecurity attacks including malware, other malicious software, phishing email attacks, attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data, the unauthorized release, corruption or loss of our data, loss or damage to our data delivery systems, and other electronic security breaches.  The Company's information technology systems are becoming increasingly integrated, so damage, disruption or shutdown to the system could result in a more widespread impact.. If the Company's information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and its business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, the Company's operations could be disrupted and its business could be negatively affected.  In addition, cyber-attacks could lead to potential unauthorized access and disclosure of confidential information, and data loss and corruption.  There is no assurance that the Company will not experience these service interruptions or cyber-attacks in the future.  Recent action by the IMO's Maritime Safety Committee and United States agencies indicate that cybersecurity regulations for the maritime industry are likely to be further developed in the near future in an attempt to combat cybersecurity threats.  The Company is unable to predict the impact of such regulations at this time.  Further, as the methods of cyber-attacks continue to evolve, the Company may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance its protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities to cyber-attacks.. Significant exercises of stock options or conversion of convertible debt could adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common Stock.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had 17,939,627 shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding; however, the total number of shares of the Company's Common Stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved for issuance under the Company's stock plans, including upon the exercise of options issued under such plans, or shares issuable upon the exchange or conversion of the Company's convertible debt.  The exercise of outstanding options, the issuance of shares reserved for issuance under the Company's Stock Plans and the conversion of convertible debt instruments could adversely affect the price of the Company's Common Stock, will reduce the percentage of Common Stock held by the Company's current stockholders and may cause its current stockholders to suffer significant dilution, which may adversely affect the market.. The Company's ability to access capital markets could be limited.  From time to time, the Company may need to access the capital markets to obtain long-term and short-term financing.  However, the Company's ability to access the capital markets for long-term financing could be limited by among other things, its existing capital structure, its credit ratings and the health of the shipping, response and overall oil and gas industry.  In addition, many of the factors that affect the Company's ability to access the capital markets, such as the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy and are outside of the Company's control.  To the extent required to do so, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to access to the capital markets on acceptable terms."
