[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating us and this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Certain statements in \"Risk Factors\" are forward-looking statements.  See \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" elsewhere in this report:. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We are subject to complex federal and state regulations governing the treatment of animals, which can change, and to claims and lawsuits by activist groups before government regulators and in the courts.. We operate in a complex and evolving regulatory environment and are subject to various federal and state statutes and regulations and international treaties implemented by federal law. The states in which we operate also regulate zoological activity involving the import and export of exotic and native wildlife, endangered and/or otherwise protected species, zoological display and anti-cruelty statutes. We incur significant compliance costs in connection with these regulations and violation of such regulations could subject us to fines and penalties and result in the loss of our licenses and permits, which, if occurred, could impact our ability to display certain animals. Future amendments to existing statutes, regulations and treaties or new statutes, regulations and treaties may potentially restrict our ability to maintain our animals, or to acquire new ones to supplement or sustain our breeding programs or otherwise adversely affect our business.. For instance, on July 16, 2015, Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) offered an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2016 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies spending bill during consideration of the bill by the full Committee on Appropriations. The amendment directed the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to issue updated regulations for the display of marine mammals in domestic zoos and aquaria within six months of enactment.  While that amendment was not included in the final Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, APHIS released a proposed rule on February 3, 2016 to amend the Animal Welfare Act regulations concerning the humane handling, care and treatment of marine mammals in captivity (the \"Proposed APHIS Regulations\").  This proposed rule would affect sections in the regulations for the protection of all marine mammals in the United States relating to human marine mammal interactive programs, space requirements, water quality, indoor facilities, outdoor facilities, implementation dates, and variances.  The Proposed APHIS Regulations were subject to public comment which ended on May 4, 2016.  We submitted a comment letter to APHIS on the final date for comments, expressing our views on the Proposed APHIS Regulations.  On January 12, 2018, the Federal Register published the latest Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions.  No proposed regulatory actions were listed for APHIS indicating that the agency does not plan any further action at this time on the matter.  The full impact of the Proposed APHIS Regulations on our business will not be known until the Proposed APHIS Regulations are finalized.  Once effective, the Proposed APHIS Regulations may increase our regulatory compliance burdens and costs, impact the way and manner the Company's marine mammals are displayed and require additional management attention and investments to come into compliance.. On March 23, 2017, Representative Adam Schiff (D-CA) reintroduced the Orca Responsibility and Care Advancement Act (the \"ORCA Act\") which he initially introduced in November 2015.  The reintroduced bill has been referred to the House Natural Resources and Agriculture Committees.  It is unclear whether this reintroduced bill will be enacted into law, but if enacted, this reintroduced bill would amend the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 and the Animal Welfare Act to prohibit the breeding, the taking (wild capture), and the import or export of orcas for the purposes of public display.  In addition, the reintroduced bill would prohibit the transport of orcas from one park to another but does allow for transport to a \"marine mammal sanctuary\" and attempts to officially define the term \"sanctuary\" in law.. On April 5, 2016, following the Orca Announcement, a California lawmaker reintroduced the California Orca Protection Act which is a bill that he originally proposed in March 2014.  The bill proposed in 2014 would have ended all captive breeding and display of orcas in California.  Additionally, that bill would have required that all orcas in California be retired to sea pens and/or sanctuaries. That bill was referred to interim study after its first public hearing in 2014. The reintroduced bill proposed in April 2016 seeks to primarily codify the Orca Announcement in California.  On August 26, 2016, this bill was enacted into law and (i) codified the end of captive breeding programs and the export and import of genetic materials for orcas in California, (ii) prohibits the import or export of new orcas into or existing orcas out of California, (iii) permits the transfer of orcas currently in California among existing SeaWorld facilities and (iv) requires educational presentations of orcas in California. The new orca programs we are developing will be consistent with these standards and began in our San Diego park in 2017.  On November 4, 2016, the California Coastal Commission granted approval to permit the renovation of the existing backdrop at the orca habitat at our San Diego park.  This approval allows us to continually develop our new orca program in our San Diego park.  On January 7, 2018, a Florida State lawmaker filed a Florida Orca Protection bill, with similar language to the California legislation.  If passed, the bill would have similar implications to the California legislation and as previously discussed, the new orca programs we are developing are consistent with the proposed standards.. 21. In light of the uncertain legal, legislative and regulatory environment and evolving public sentiment, we continue to evaluate a broad spectrum of enhancements, modifications and alternatives with respect to the display, husbandry and breeding practices, handling and care, and study and research of our orcas and other marine animals. Any decisions regarding such matters are subject to consideration and assessment of various factors including, but not limited to, the health and welfare of the animals, guest sentiment, market conditions, anticipated impact on our business, regulatory environment, legal proceedings, input from our shareholders and conservation partners, and other factors. If we were to pursue or be required to pursue any alternative approaches with respect to the display, husbandry and breeding practices, handling and care, or study and research of our orcas or other animals in our zoological collection, the full impact of such alternatives on our business will not be known until such alternatives are finalized.  In the meantime, we continue to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate the impact of and ensure compliance with the applicable regulatory and other developments.. From time to time, animal activist and other third-party groups may make claims before government agencies, bring lawsuits against us, and/or attempt to generate negative publicity associated with our business. Such activities sometimes are based on allegations that we do not properly care for some of our featured animals. On other occasions, such activities are specifically designed to change existing law or enact new law in order to impede our ability to retain, exhibit, acquire or breed animals. While we seek to structure our operations to comply with all applicable federal and state laws and vigorously defend ourselves when sued, there are no assurances as to the outcome of future claims and lawsuits that could be brought against us. In addition, negative publicity associated with such activities could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. At times, activists and other third-party groups have also attempted to generate negative publicity related to our relationships with our business partners, such as corporate sponsors, promotional partners, vendors, ticket resellers and others. For example, since 2014, we have experienced demand pressures, particularly in California, which we believe were partly due to media attention relating to the legislation proposed in that state. In addition, we have experienced increased media attention since 2014 extending to our relationships with some of our business partners, including recent attempts in the first quarter of 2018 by animal activists to generate negative publicity related to our relationships with ticket resellers in the United Kingdom.. Various factors beyond our control could adversely affect attendance and guest spending patterns at our theme parks.. Various factors beyond our control could adversely affect attendance and guest spending patterns at our theme parks. These factors could also affect our suppliers, vendors, insurance carriers and other contractual counterparties. Such factors include:. •  war, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events;. •  outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases or consumers' concerns relating to potential exposure to travel-related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Ebola, Zika, Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu, SARS and MERS;. •  natural disasters, such as hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, tornados, floods and volcanic eruptions and man-made disasters such as oil spills, which may deter travelers from scheduling vacations or cause them to cancel travel or vacation plans;. •  bad weather and even forecasts of bad weather, including abnormally hot, cold and/or wet weather, particularly during weekends, holidays or other peak periods;. •  changes in the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of both our domestic and international guests;. •  fluctuations in foreign exchange rates;. •  low consumer confidence;. •  oil prices and travel costs and the financial condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries, any travel-related disruptions or incidents and their impact on travel;. •  actions or statements by U.S. and foreign governmental officials, including the U.S. President and his administration officials, related to travel and corporate travel-related activities (including changes to the U.S. visa rules) and the resulting public perception of such travel and activities; and. •  interruption of public or private utility services to our theme parks.. 22. Any one or more of these factors could adversely affect attendance and total per capita spending at our theme parks, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, throughout 2017 we have experienced a decline in international attendance from multiple markets, with a significant portion of that decline coming from the United Kingdom.  We believe these declines are due partly to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against a variety of foreign currencies; in addition, we believe competitive pressures may also be impacting international attendance in our Orlando market.  The June 2016 announcement of the Referendum of the United Kingdom's Membership of the European Union (referred to as Brexit) introduced additional volatility and uncertainty in global stock markets and currency exchange rates which has also had an impact on our international attendance from the United Kingdom.  Historically, attendance from the United Kingdom represented approximately 5% of our total annual attendance.  Latin America attendance is also down from historical levels and may not rebound in the near future.  Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our business due to the effect a strong dollar has on international tourist spending.  In addition, demand for our parks is highly dependent on the general environment for travel and tourism, which can be significantly adversely affected by extreme weather events.  Any of such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.  For example, attendance at our parks in the third quarter of 2017 was negatively impacted by Hurricane Irma, which caused park closures in Tampa and Orlando, and, to a lesser extent, Hurricane Harvey, which caused park closures and travel disruptions in Texas, as well as weather impacts in Virginia.. Incidents or adverse publicity concerning our theme parks or the theme park industry generally could harm our brands or reputation as well as negatively impact our revenues and profitability.. Our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of the Company, the quality of our theme parks and services and our corporate and management integrity. The operation of theme parks involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, environmental incidents and other incidents which may negatively affect the perception of guest and employee safety, health, security and guest satisfaction and which could negatively impact our brands or reputation and our business and results of operations. An accident or an injury at any of our theme parks or at theme parks operated by competitors, particularly an accident or an injury involving the safety of guests and employees, that receives media attention, is the topic of a book, film, documentary or is otherwise the subject of public discussions, may harm our brands or reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the Company, reduce attendance at our theme parks and negatively impact our results of operations. Such incidents have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. In addition, other types of adverse publicity concerning our business or the theme park industry generally could harm our brands, reputation and results of operations. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the impact of negative publicity.  There has been and may continue to be perception issues and negative media attention that create a barrier to attendance at our parks, particularly in California.. We could be adversely affected by a decline in discretionary consumer spending or consumer confidence.. Our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is heavily influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. In the past, severe economic downturns, coupled with high volatility and uncertainty as to the future global economic landscape, have had an adverse effect on consumers' discretionary income and consumer confidence.. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions and recessionary periods may adversely impact attendance figures, the frequency with which guests choose to visit our theme parks and guest spending patterns at our theme parks. The actual or perceived weakness in the economy could also lead to decreased spending by our guests. For example, in 2009 and 2010, we experienced a decline in attendance as a result of the global economic crisis, which in turn adversely affected our revenue and profitability. Both attendance and total per capita spending at our theme parks are key drivers of our revenue and profitability, and reductions in either can materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenues are generated in the States of Florida, California and Virginia and in the Orlando market. Any risks affecting such markets, such as natural disasters and travel-related disruptions or incidents, may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Approximately 57%, 17% and 14% of our revenues in 2017 were generated in the States of Florida, California and Virginia, respectively. In addition, our revenues and results of operations depend significantly on the results of our Orlando theme parks. The Orlando theme park market is extremely competitive, with a high concentration of theme parks operated by several companies.. 23. Any risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, such as the occurrence of natural disasters and travel-related disruptions or incidents, affecting the States of Florida, California and Virginia generally or our Orlando theme parks in particular may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, especially if they have the effect of decreasing attendance at our theme parks or, in extreme cases, cause us to close any of our theme parks for any period of time. For example, in 2016, Florida was impacted by Tropical Storm Colin and both Florida and Virginia were impacted by Hurricanes Hermine and Matthew, which caused physical damage and power outages in various parts of Florida and Virginia.  Although we attempted to manage our exposure to such events by implementing our hurricane preparedness plan, our theme parks located in Orlando and Tampa, Florida and in Williamsburg, Virginia experienced closures as a result of these storms.  In addition, attendance at our parks in the third quarter of 2017 was negatively impacted by Hurricane Irma, which caused park closures in Tampa and Orlando, and, to a lesser extent, Hurricane Harvey, which caused park closures and travel disruptions in Texas, as well as weather impacts in Virginia.. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations.. We have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in our annual theme park attendance and revenue, which are typically higher in our second and third quarters, partly because seven of our theme parks are only open for a portion of the year. Approximately two-thirds of our attendance and revenues are generated in the second and third quarters of the year and we typically incur a net loss in the first and fourth quarters. In addition, school vacations and school start dates also cause fluctuations in our quarterly theme park attendance and revenue.. Furthermore, the operating season at some of our theme parks, including SeaWorld San Antonio, Aquatica San Antonio, Adventure Island, Aquatica San Diego, Busch Gardens Williamsburg, Water Country USA and Sesame Place, is of limited duration. In addition, most of our expenses for maintenance and costs of adding new attractions at our seasonal theme parks are incurred when the operating season is over, which may increase the need for borrowing to fund such expenses during such periods.. When conditions or events described in this section occur during the operating season, particularly during the second and third quarters, there is only a limited period of time during which the impact of those conditions or events can be mitigated. Accordingly, such conditions or events may have a disproportionately adverse effect on our revenues and cash flow.. Because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues, profits or market share could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively.. The entertainment industry, and the theme park industry in particular, is highly competitive. Our theme parks compete with other theme, water and amusement parks and with other types of recreational facilities and forms of entertainment, including movies, home entertainment options, sports attractions, restaurants and vacation travel.. Principal direct competitors of our theme parks include theme parks operated by The Walt Disney Company, Universal Studios, Six Flags, Cedar Fair, Merlin Entertainments and Hershey Entertainment and Resorts Company. The principal competitive factors of a theme park include location, price, originality and perceived quality of the rides and attractions, the atmosphere and cleanliness of the theme park, the quality of its food and entertainment, weather conditions, ease of travel to the theme park (including direct flights by major airlines), and availability and cost of transportation to a theme park. Certain of our direct competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do, and they may be able to adapt more quickly to changes in guest preferences or devote greater resources to promotion of their offerings and attractions than us. Our competitors may be able to attract guests to their theme parks in lieu of our own through the development or acquisition of new rides, attractions or shows that are perceived by guests to be of a higher quality and entertainment value. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully against such competitors. For example, in 2014, we experienced negative attendance trends, primarily at our destination parks in Florida, which we believe was due in part to significant new attraction offerings at competitor destination parks, along with a delay in the scheduled opening of one of our new rides at our Busch Gardens Tampa park.. 24. Featuring animals at our theme parks involves risks.. Our theme parks feature numerous displays and interactions that include animals. All animal enterprises involve some degree of risk. All animal interaction by our employees and our guests in attractions in our theme parks, where offered, involves risk. While we maintain strict safety procedures for the protection of our employees and guests, injuries or death, while rare, have occurred in the past. For example, in February 2010, a trainer was killed while engaged in an interaction with an orca. Following this incident, we were subject to an inspection by the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (\"OSHA\"), which resulted in three citations concerning alleged violations of the Occupational Safety and Health Act and certain regulations thereunder.  In 2012, we initiated an appeal of certain of these citations with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  On April 11, 2014, the Court of Appeals denied our appeal and we elected to not pursue further appeal.  In connection with this incident, we reviewed and revised our safety protocols and made certain safety-related facility enhancements such as revising training protocols used in show performances. This incident has also been and continues to be the subject of significant media attention, including extensive television and newspaper coverage, a documentary and a book, as well as discussions in social media. This incident and similar events that may occur in the future may harm our reputation, reduce attendance and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We maintain insurance of the type and in amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable and that are available to animal enterprise related businesses in the theme park industry. We cannot predict the level of the premiums that we may be required to pay for subsequent insurance coverage, the level of any self-insurance retention applicable thereto, the level of aggregate coverage available, or the availability of coverage for specific risks.. Animals in our care are important to our theme parks, and they could be exposed to infectious diseases.. Many of our theme parks are distinguished from those of our competitors in that we offer guest interactions with animals. Individual animals, specific species of animals or groups of animals in our zoological collection could be exposed to infectious diseases. While we have never had any such experiences, an outbreak of an infectious disease among any animals in our theme parks or the public's perception that a certain disease could be harmful to human health may materially adversely affect our zoological collection, our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The high fixed cost structure of theme park operations can result in significantly lower margins if revenues decline.. A large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed because the costs for full-time employees, maintenance, animal care, utilities, advertising and insurance do not vary significantly with attendance. These fixed costs may increase at a greater rate than our revenues and may not be able to be reduced at the same rate as declining revenues. If cost-cutting efforts are insufficient to offset declines in revenues or are impracticable, we could experience a material decline in margins, revenues, profitability and reduced or negative cash flows. Such effects can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth.. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences for entertainment and consumer products could reduce demand for our entertainment offerings and products and adversely affect the profitability of our business.. The success of our business depends on our ability to consistently provide, maintain and expand theme park attractions as well as create and distribute media programming, online material and consumer products that meet changing consumer preferences. In addition, consumers from outside the United States constitute an increasingly important portion of our theme park attendance, and our success depends in part on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to tastes and preferences of this consumer group. If our entertainment offerings and products do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance or if consumer preferences change, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the integrity of internal or guest data could result in damages to our reputation, the disruption of operations and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits.. We collect and retain large volumes of internal and guest data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information, for business purposes, including for transactional or target marketing and promotional purposes, and our various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of our guest, employee and Company data is critical to our business and our guests and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment, as well as the requirements imposed on us by the credit card industry, governing information, security and privacy laws is increasingly demanding and continues to evolve. Maintaining compliance with applicable security and privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our theme parks, products and services to our guests. We also rely on accounting, financial and operational management information technology systems to conduct our operations. If these information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 25. We face various security threats, including cyber security attacks on our data (including our vendors' and guests' data) and/or information technology infrastructure. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent penetrations or disruptions to our systems. Furthermore, a penetrated or compromised data system or the intentional, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of guest, employee or Company data which could harm our reputation or result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits and require significant management attention and resources to be spent.  In addition, our insurance coverage and indemnification arrangements that we enter into, if any, may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to cyber security attacks or disruptions resulting from such events.  To date, cyber security attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results.  Due to the evolving nature of security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.. Increased labor costs and employee health and welfare benefits may negatively impact our operations.. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our business. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefit costs or otherwise, would adversely impact our operating expenses. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the amendments thereto contain provisions that have impacted our healthcare costs. It is possible that any future amendments could significantly increase our compensation costs, which would reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows.  Beginning on July 11, 2016, San Diego's minimum wage was increased to $10.50 and, beginning on January 1, 2017, was increased again to $11.50. Two years later in January 2019, annual increases to the San Diego minimum wage as well as the State of California minimum wage based on the consumer price index will start to be implemented.  Increases to the San Diego minimum wage and State of California minimum wage will impact our operating expenses, particularly at the Company's SeaWorld San Diego and Aquatica San Diego parks.. Our growth strategy may not achieve the anticipated results.. Our future success will depend on our ability to grow our business, including through capital investments to improve existing and develop new theme parks, rides, attractions and shows, as well as in-park product offerings and product offerings outside of our theme parks. Our growth and innovation strategies require significant commitments of management resources and capital investments and may not grow our revenues at the rate we expect or at all. As a result, we may not be able to recover the costs incurred in developing our new projects and initiatives or to realize their intended or projected benefits, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to fund theme park capital expenditures and investment in future attractions and projects.. A principal competitive factor for a theme park is the originality and perceived quality of its rides and attractions. We need to make continued capital investments through maintenance and the regular addition of new rides and attractions. Our ability to fund capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and to raise capital from third parties. We cannot assure you that our operations will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to fund such costs, or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing on adequate terms, or at all, which could cause us to delay or abandon certain projects or plans.. Adverse litigation judgments or settlements resulting from legal proceedings in which we may be involved in the normal course of our business could reduce our profits or limit our ability to operate our business.. We are subject to allegations, claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business, which may include claims by third parties, including guests who visit our theme parks, our employees or regulators. We are currently subject to securities litigation.  The Company is also subject to audits, inspections and investigations by, or receives requests for information from, various federal and state regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal-OSHA), state departments of labor, the Florida Fish & Wildlife Commission (FWC), the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). From time to time, various parties may also bring lawsuits against the Company.  For example, in June 2017, the Company received a subpoena in connection with an investigation by the DOJ concerning disclosures and public statements made by the Company and certain executives and/or individuals on or before August 2014, including those regarding the impact of the \"Blackfish\" documentary, and trading in the Company's securities.  The Company also has received subpoenas from the staff of the SEC in connection with these matters.  The Company has cooperated with these government inquiries and intends to continue to cooperate with any government requests or inquiries.. 26. We discuss the securities litigation and other litigation to which we are subject to in greater detail below under the caption \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" and Note 15 - Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The outcome of many of these proceedings cannot be predicted. If any proceedings, audits, inspections or investigations were to be determined adversely against us or resulted in legal actions, claims, regulatory proceedings, enforcement actions, or judgments, fines, or settlements involving a payment of material sums of money, or if injunctive relief were issued against us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  Even the successful defense of legal proceedings may cause us to incur substantial legal costs and may divert management's attention and resources.. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could adversely affect our business.. Our intellectual property, including our trademarks, service marks, domain names, copyrights, patent and other proprietary rights, constitutes a significant part of the value of the Company. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely upon a combination of trademark, copyright, patent, trade secret and unfair competition laws of the United States and other countries, as well as contract provisions and third-party policies and procedures governing internet/domain name registrations. However, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful in any given case, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We may be unable to prevent the misappropriation, infringement or violation of our intellectual property rights, breaching any contractual obligations to us, or independently developing intellectual property that is similar to ours, any of which could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have developed, adversely affect our revenues or otherwise harm our business.. We have obtained and applied for numerous U.S. and foreign trademark and service mark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and service marks or other intellectual property, as appropriate. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. A failure to obtain registrations for our intellectual property in the United States and other countries could limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and impede our marketing efforts in those jurisdictions.. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property rights. If it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome, costly and divert the attention of our personnel, and we may not prevail. In addition, any repeal or weakening of laws or enforcement in the United States or internationally intended to protect intellectual property rights could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, negatively impacting their value and increasing the cost of enforcing our rights.. We may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property rights of others, which could be costly and result in the loss of significant intellectual property rights.. We cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of our business based on allegations of infringement or other violations of the intellectual property rights of others. Regardless of their merits, intellectual property claims can divert the efforts of our personnel and are often time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle. In addition, to the extent claims against us are successful, we may have to pay substantial money damages or discontinue, modify or rename certain products or services that are found to be in violation of another party's rights. We may have to seek a license (if available on acceptable terms, or at all) to continue offering products and services, which may significantly increase our operating expenses.. If we lose licenses and permits required to exhibit animals and/or violate laws and regulations, our business will be adversely affected.. We are required to hold government licenses and permits, some of which are subject to yearly or periodic renewal, for purposes of possessing, exhibiting and maintaining animals. Although our theme parks' licenses and permits have always been renewed in the past, in the event that any of our licenses or permits are not renewed or any of our licenses or permits are revoked, portions of the affected theme park might not be able to remain open for purpose of displaying or retaining the animals covered by such license or permit. Such an outcome could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 27. In addition, we are subject to periodic inspections by federal and state agencies and the subsequent issuance of inspection reports. While we believe that we comply with, or exceed, requisite care and maintenance standards that apply to our animals, government inspectors can cite us for alleged statutory or regulatory violations. In unusual instances when we are cited for an alleged deficiency, we are most often given the opportunity to correct any purported deficiencies without penalty. It is possible, however, that in some cases a federal or state regulator could seek to impose monetary fines on us. In the past, when we have been subjected to governmental claims for fines, the amounts involved were not material to our business, financial condition or results of operations.. However, while highly unlikely, we cannot predict whether any future fines that regulators might seek to impose would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Moreover, many of the statutes under which we operate allow for the imposition of criminal sanctions. While neither of the foregoing situations are likely to occur, either could negatively affect the business, financial condition or results of operations at our theme parks.. If we lose key personnel, our business may be adversely affected.. Our success depends in part upon a number of key employees, including members of our senior management team who have extensive experience in the industry. We may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the market. Failure to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees, or failure to develop and implement a viable succession plan, could adversely affect our business and our future success. We have employment agreements with certain members of our senior management, but these employment agreements do not ensure that they will not voluntarily terminate their employment with us.. On February 26, 2018, Joel K. Manby stepped down from his position as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and resigned as a member of our Board of Directors and the Board of Directors appointed John T. Reilly, our Chief Parks Operations Officer to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors has commenced a search to recruit a permanent successor with the assistance of a leading executive search firm.  In connection with the departure of Mr. Manby and the appointment of Mr. Reilly as Interim Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors appointed the Chairman of the Board, Yoshikazu Maruyama to serve as Executive Chairman of the Board, effective February 26, 2018, until a successor for Mr. Manby is appointed on a permanent basis, at which time Mr. Maruyama is expected to resume his position as Chairman of the Board.  These changes in the Company's management team and to the Board of Directors, may be disruptive to, or cause uncertainty in, the Company's business, and any additional changes to the management team or the Board of Directors could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to manage and grow its business effectively. In addition, if the Company is not effective in its succession planning, it may have a negative impact on the Company's ability to successfully recruit for its management team. Any such disruption or uncertainty or difficulty in efficiently and effectively filling key management roles could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, results of operations and/or the price of the Company's common stock.. Unionization activities or labor disputes may disrupt our operations and affect our profitability.. Although none of our employees are currently covered under collective bargaining agreements, we cannot guarantee that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. If some or all of our employees were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, a labor dispute involving some or all of our employees may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and resolution of disputes may increase our costs.. Although we maintain binding policies that require employees to submit to a mandatory alternative dispute resolution procedure in lieu of other remedies, as employers, we may be subject to various employment-related claims, such as individual or class actions or government enforcement actions relating to alleged employment discrimination, employee classification and related withholding, wage-hour, labor standards or healthcare and benefit issues. Such actions, if brought against us and successful in whole or in part, may affect our ability to compete or materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our business depends on our ability to meet our workforce needs.. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified employees to keep pace with our needs, including employees with certain specialized skills in the field of animal training and care. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected.. 28. In addition, we employ a significant seasonal workforce. We recruit year-round to fill thousands of seasonal staffing positions each season and work to manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. There is no assurance that we will be able to recruit and hire adequate seasonal personnel as the business requires or that we will not experience material increases in the cost of securing our seasonal workforce in the future. Increased seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If we are unable to maintain certain commercial licenses, our business, reputation and brand could be adversely affected.. We rely on a license from Sesame to use the Sesame Place trade name and trademark and certain other intellectual property rights, including titles, marks, characters, logos and designs from the Sesame Street television series within our Sesame Place theme park located in Langhorne, Pennsylvania (the \"Langhorne Sesame Place\") and any additional future Sesame Place theme parks in the United States (collectively, the \"Standalone Parks\") and with respect to Sesame Street themed areas within certain areas of some of our other theme parks, as well as in connection with the sales of certain Sesame Street themed products. The License Agreement with Sesame Workshop (the \"Sesame License Agreement\") has an initial term through December 31, 2031, with an automatic additional 15 year extension plus a 5 year option added from each new Standalone Park opening. Our use of these intellectual property rights is subject to the approval of Sesame and the parties have certain termination rights under the Sesame License Agreement, including without limitation Sesame's right to terminate the Sesame License Agreement in whole or in part under certain limited circumstances, including a change of control of the Company (or of SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company), the Company's bankruptcy or uncured breach of the Sesame License Agreement, or the termination of the Sesame License Agreement regarding the Langhorne Sesame Place theme park.  If we were to lose or have to renegotiate the Sesame License Agreement, our business may be adversely affected.. ABI is the owner of the Busch Gardens trademarks and domain names. ABI has granted us a perpetual, exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license to use the Busch Gardens trademark and certain related domain names in connection with the operation, marketing, promotion and advertising of certain of our theme parks, as well as in connection with the production, use, distribution and sale of merchandise sold in connection with such theme parks. Under the license, we are required to indemnify ABI against losses related to our use of the marks. If we were to lose or have to renegotiate this license, our business may be adversely affected.. Our existing debt agreements contain, and future debt agreements may contain, restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our existing debt agreements contain, and documents governing our future indebtedness may contain, numerous financial and operating covenants that limit the discretion of management with respect to certain business matters. These covenants place restrictions on, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends and other distributions, make capital expenditures, make certain loans, investments and other restricted payments, enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, engage in certain transactions with stockholders or affiliates, sell certain assets or engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, amend or otherwise alter the terms of our indebtedness, alter the business that we conduct, guarantee indebtedness or incur other contingent obligations and create liens. Our existing debt agreements also require, and documents governing our future indebtedness may require, us to meet certain financial ratios and tests. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of the existing debt agreements is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or non-compliance with any of these financial ratios and tests could result in an event of default under the existing debt agreements, which, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of the related debt and the acceleration of debt under other instruments evidencing indebtedness that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. We discuss certain key covenants and financial ratios to which we are subject under our debt agreements in greater detail under the caption \"Restrictive Covenants\" in Note 12 - Long-Term Debt to our accompanying consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Our Indebtedness - Covenant Compliance\". Additionally, variable rate indebtedness subjects us to the risk of higher interest rates, which could cause our future debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets.. Moody's Investor Service and Standard & Poor's Financial Services routinely evaluate our debt and issue ratings on our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which included their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. Due to changes in these factors and market conditions, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity and access to capital markets.. 29. For example, as of January 1, 2017, our Senior Secured Credit Facilities (as defined below) were rated by Standard and Poor's Financial Services (corporate credit rated B+ with a negative outlook and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities rated BB-) and Moody's Investors Service (corporate family rated B1 with a stable outlook and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities rated B1).  In August 2017, these credit rating agencies lowered their ratings and, since that adjustment, we have been rated by Standard and Poor's Financial Services (corporate credit rated B with a negative outlook and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities rated B) and Moody's Investors Service (corporate family rated B2 with a negative outlook and the Senior Secured Credit Facilities rated B2). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of these ratings on our costs of funds and related margins, liquidity and access to capital markets. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and any further actions taken by these credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings, as described above, will likely increase our borrowing costs.. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was approximately $1,560.0 million. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: (i) a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations, future business opportunities, share repurchases pursuant to the program authorized by the Board in 2014 to repurchase up to $250.0 million of the Company's common stock (the \"Share Repurchase Program\") and capital expenditures; (ii) our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes in the future may be limited; (iii) certain of the borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which will increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates; (iv) we are at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors; (v) we may be unable to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions; (vi) the debt service requirements of our other indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; and (vii) we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business and we may be unable to carry out activities that are important to our growth.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, or to pay interest on, or to refinance indebtedness depends on and is subject to our financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general and regional economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the international banking and capital markets. If unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs, we will need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. There can be no assurance that any refinancing of our indebtedness will be possible and any such refinancing could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations. We from time to time may increase the amount of our indebtedness, modify the terms of our financing arrangements, issue dividends, make capital expenditures and take other actions that may substantially increase our leverage.. Despite our significant leverage, we may incur significant additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant leverage.. We may not realize the benefits of acquisitions or other strategic initiatives.. Our business strategy may include selective expansion, both domestically and internationally, through acquisitions of assets or other strategic initiatives, such as joint ventures, that allow us to profitably expand our business and leverage our brands. For example, on December 13, 2016, we announced our partnership with Miral Asset Management LLC to develop SeaWorld Abu Dhabi, a first-of-its-kind marine life themed park on Yas Island. In addition, on March 24, 2017, we entered into a Park Exclusivity and Concept Design Agreement (\"ECDA\") and a Center Concept & Preliminary Design Support Agreement (\"CDSA\") with an affiliate of ZHG Group to provide design, support and advisory services for various potential projects and granting exclusive rights in China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau. There is no assurance that the Miral partnership or any other expansion effort for our business, including without limitation the ECDA and the CDSA, will be successful. Any international transactions and partnerships are subject to additional risks, including foreign and U.S. regulations on the import and export of animals, the impact of economic fluctuations in economies outside of the United States, difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, as well as political instability and lesser degree of legal protection in certain jurisdictions, currency exchange fluctuations and potentially adverse tax consequences of overseas operations. In addition, the success of any acquisitions depends on effective integration of acquired businesses and assets into our operations, which is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of acquired businesses or assets.. 30. In recent years, our management team has been focused on a strategic plan to stabilize our business to drive sustainable growth by providing experiences that matter, delivering distinct guest experiences that are fun and meaningful, pursuing organic and strategic revenue growth and addressing the challenges we face, while maintaining financial discipline. In addition, following a fundamental review of our cost structure, in 2016, we announced a comprehensive cost optimization program and in 2017, identified additional cost savings opportunities.  See further discussion under the caption \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Overview\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K\".  Any of these and future strategies to drive sustainable growth in our business may be unsuccessful and we may not be able to achieve the targeted cost savings or grow our business.. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets.. Our operations are capital intensive and require significant investment in long-lived assets, such as property, equipment and other long-lived assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. We review goodwill and intangible assets at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in park performance, adverse competitive conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict our activities or affect the services we offer, challenges to the validity of our intellectual property and a variety of other factors.  For example, due to financial performance particularly late in the second quarter of 2017 at our SeaWorld Orlando park, driven primarily by a decline in U.S. domestic and international attendance at the park, we determined a triggering event had occurred that required an interim goodwill impairment test for our SeaWorld Orlando reporting unit.  See Note 9 - Goodwill, Net, in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  There is no assurance that we will not experience similar asset impairments in the future. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that we could suffer and our insurance costs may increase.. We seek to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. Although we maintain various safety and loss prevention programs and carry property and casualty insurance to cover certain risks, our insurance policies do not cover all types of losses and liabilities. There can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient to cover the full extent of all losses or liabilities for which we are insured, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew our current insurance policies on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, if we or other theme park operators sustain significant losses or make significant insurance claims, then our ability to obtain future insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates could be materially adversely affected.. We may be unable to purchase or contract with third-party manufacturers for our theme park rides and attractions.. We may be unable to purchase or contract with third parties to build high quality rides and attractions and to continue to service and maintain those rides and attractions at competitive or beneficial prices, or to provide the replacement parts needed to maintain the operation of such rides. In addition, if our third-party suppliers' financial condition deteriorates or they go out of business, we may not be able to obtain the full benefit of manufacturer warranties or indemnities typically contained in our contracts or may need to incur greater costs for the maintenance, repair, replacement or insurance of these assets.. Our operations and our ownership of property subject us to environmental requirements, and to environmental expenditures and liabilities.. We incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to water use, wastewater and storm water management and disposal, air emissions control, hazardous materials management, solid and hazardous waste disposal, and the clean-up of properties affected by regulated materials.. We have been required and continue to investigate and clean-up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases, and other releases, from current or formerly owned or operated facilities. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we generate, use and dispose of large volumes of water, including saltwater, which requires us to comply with a number of federal, state and local regulations and to incur significant expenses. Failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to fines and penalties and/or require us to incur additional expenses. Although we are not now classified as a large quantity generator of hazardous waste, we do store and handle hazardous materials to operate and maintain our equipment and facilities and have done so historically.. We cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial costs to comply with new or expanded environmental requirements in the future or to investigate or clean-up new or newly identified environmental conditions, which could also impair our ability to use or transfer the affected properties and to obtain financing.. 31. The suspension or termination of any of our business licenses may have a negative impact on our business.. We maintain a variety of business licenses issued by federal, state and local authorities that are renewable on a periodic basis. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in renewing all of our licenses on a periodic basis. The suspension, termination or expiration of one or more of these licenses could materially adversely affect our revenues and profits. In addition, any changes to the licensing requirements for any of our licenses could affect our ability to maintain the licenses.. Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits for capital investments could impair our business.. Our capital investments require regulatory permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to improve existing or build new theme parks, rides, attractions and shows. Such permits are typically issued by state agencies, but federal and local governmental permits may also be required. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location of such capital investments. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions that may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Therefore, our capital investments in certain areas may be delayed, interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue to us and adversely affecting our results of operations.. The policies of the U.S. President and his administration could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. While the current administration's policies in many areas are still uncertain at this time, certain types of policies regarding foreign travel to the United States, foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment could adversely affect our business. For example, policies that strengthen the U.S. dollar against a variety of foreign currencies could impact international tourist spending, including at our theme parks. In addition, foreign tourists may opt to reduce their travel to the United States as a result of the new administration's policies regarding immigration, foreign trade or other matters. While there is currently a substantial lack of clarity and uncertainty around the likelihood, timing and details of any such policies and reforms, such policies and reforms may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our securities.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"Act\").  Among other changes, the Act imposes limitations on the deductibility of interest.  Moreover, the effects of the Act are not yet entirely clear and will depend on, among other things, additional regulatory and administrative guidance, as well as any statutory technical corrections that are subsequently enacted,  which could have an adverse effect on the U.S. federal income taxation of our and our subsidiaries' operations.. We could be adversely impacted by actions of activist stockholders, and such activism could impact the value of our securities.. We value constructive input from our stockholders and the investment community. Our Board of Directors and management team are committed to acting in the best interests of all of our stockholders. There is no assurance that the actions taken by our Board of Directors and management in seeking to maintain constructive engagement with our stockholders will be successful. Responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees. Such activities could also interfere with our ability to execute our strategic plan and our long term growth. The perceived uncertainties as to our future direction caused by activist actions could affect the market price of our securities, result in the loss of potential business opportunities and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, board members and business partners. In addition, any interference with our annual meeting process, including but not limited to a proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting, could require us to incur significant legal and other advisory fees and proxy solicitation expenses and require significant time and attention by management and our board of directors.. Affiliates of Hill Path will be able to significantly influence our decisions and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future.. On May 1, 2017, Hill Path and affiliated entities filed with the SEC a Schedule 13D reporting that such persons had accumulated a total of 6,987,962 shares of the Company's common stock, which represented approximately 7.7% of the Company's total outstanding shares of common stock at such time.  In the Schedule 13D, Hill Path stated, among other things, that they may suggest changes in the Company's business, operations, capital structure, capital allocation, corporate governance and other strategic matters.  As described in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2017, we entered into a cooperation agreement and certain related agreements with Hill Path with a view to working collaboratively to build long term stockholder value and, as described in Amendment No. 5 to Hill Path's Schedule 13D on November 7, 2017, Hill Path reported that such persons had accumulated a total of 13,581,406 shares of the Company's common stock, which represented approximately 15% of the Company's total outstanding shares of common stock at such time.  Pursuant to the cooperation agreement, on November 5, 2017, the Board appointed Scott I. Ross (the \"Designee\") to the Board and the recently created Revenue Committee of the Board, increasing the total Board to 9 members.  The Revenue Committee is a new Board committee for the development, articulation and execution of the Company's short-term and long-term revenue-growth strategies.  For so long as the Designee remains on our Board, Hill Path will. 32. have influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. Also, for so long as Hill Path continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, Hill Path may be able to influence whether or not a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors occurs. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock.. Affiliates of ZHG Group will be able to significantly influence our decisions and their interests may conflict with ours or yours in the future.. Affiliates of ZHG Group beneficially own approximately 21% of our common stock as of such date and have the ability to elect a specified number of members of our Board of Directors as described in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 24, 2017.  Thus, for so long as ZHG Group continues to own specified percentages of our stock, ZHG Group will be able to influence the composition of our Board of Directors and the approval of actions requiring stockholder approval. Accordingly, during that period of time, ZHG Group will have influence with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers. For example, for so long as ZHG Group continues to own a significant percentage of our stock, ZHG Group may be able to influence whether or not a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our Board of Directors occurs. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares of common stock as part of a sale of our company and ultimately might affect the market price of our common stock.. ZHG Group and its respective affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities, including investments in the real estate, leisure, culture, and tourism industries. In the ordinary course of their business activities, ZHG Group and its respective affiliates may engage in activities in which their interests conflict with ours or those of our stockholders.  For example, the ZHG Group recently acquired Abercrombie & Kent, Group of Companies, S.A., a major international luxury and adventure tour operator. Under the Company's stockholders agreement with ZHG Group, the Company agreed to renounce any interest or expectancy, or right to be offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity or corporate opportunity presented to ZHG Group or its affiliates. ZHG Group also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may be unavailable to us. In addition, ZHG Group may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their respective investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to you.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may change significantly, and you may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid or at all, and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our IPO in April 2013 through December 31, 2017, our common stock close price has ranged from $10.61 to $38.92. In addition to the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the trading price of our common stock may be adversely affected due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. •   results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. •  results of operations that vary from those of our competitors;. •  changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates and investment recommendations by securities analysts and investors;. •  declines in the market prices of stocks generally, or those of amusement and theme parks companies;. •  strategic actions by us or our competitors;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new products, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures, other strategic relationships or capital commitments;. •  changes in general economic or market conditions or trends in our industry or markets;. •  changes in business or regulatory conditions;. •  future sales of our common stock or other securities;. •  repurchases of our common stock pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program;. •  investor perceptions or the investment opportunity associated with our common stock relative to other investment alternatives;. •  the public's response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC;. 33. •  rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry, particularly with respect to strategic transactions;. •  announcements relating to litigation;. •  guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance or our failure to meet this guidance;. •  the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our stock;. •  actions by institutional or activist stockholders;. •  changes in accounting principles; and. •  other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism or responses to these events.. We have suspended the dividend on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock in the future.. In September 2016, our Board suspended the Company's quarterly dividend to allow the Company greater flexibility to deploy capital to opportunities that offer the greatest long term returns to shareholders, such as, but not limited to, share repurchases, investments in new attractions or debt repayments.  Future dividends, if any, and the timing of declaration of any such dividends, will be at the discretion of the Board and will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, our results of operations, financial condition, level of indebtedness, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, restrictions in our debt agreements and in any preferred stock, business prospects and other factors that the Board deems relevant. Our ability to declare dividends and make other restricted payments is limited by covenants in our senior secured credit facilities pursuant to a credit agreement dated as of December 1, 2009, as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time (the \"Senior Secured Credit Facilities\"). The fiscal amount available for dividend declarations, share repurchases and other restricted payments under the covenant restrictions in the debt agreements adjusts at the beginning of each quarter. See Note 12 - Long-Term Debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We cannot guarantee that our allocation of capital to various alternatives will enhance long-term stockholder value, and in some cases, our Share Repurchase Program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock.. Our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall long-term returns. This includes spending on capital projects and expenses, managing debt levels, and periodically returning capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.  There can be no assurance that our capital allocation decisions will enhance shareholder value.  During 2015, we repurchased a total of 2,413,803 shares of common stock at an average price of $18.62 per share and a total cost of approximately $45.0 million. There were no share repurchases during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, leaving $190.0 million available for future repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program as of December 31, 2017.  Repurchases of our common stock pursuant to the Share Repurchase Program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of the Share Repurchase Program could cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock.  There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Although the Share Repurchase Program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce such program's effectiveness.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock or our sector, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of the Company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. 34. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, by us or our existing stockholders in the public market could cause the market price for our common stock to decline.. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. Shares held by ZHG Group, Hill Path and certain of our directors, officers and employees are eligible for resale, subject to volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144. In addition, pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the Sale, we granted ZHG Group the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to register the sale of their shares of common stock under the Securities Act.  We also entered into a side letter with Hill Path on November 5, 2017 that provides if it obtains any requisite Board approval or the consent of ZHG, the Company will execute and deliver to Hill Path a form of registration rights agreement which grants Hill Path limited shelf registration rights with respect to their common stock (including certain demand underwritten offering rights and piggyback registration rights) under the Securities Act.. As restrictions on resale end or if ZHG Group or Hill Path exercise their registration rights, the market price of our shares of common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our shares of common stock or other securities.. In addition, the shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan will become eligible for sale in the public market once those shares are issued, subject to provisions relating to various vesting agreements, lock-up agreements and Rule 144, as applicable. A total of 15,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan, of which 7,466,524 shares of common stock remain available for future issuance as of December 31, 2017. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in additional dilution to you.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control.. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders.. These provisions provide for, among other things:. •  the ability of our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock;. •  advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings;. •  certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings;. •  the removal of directors with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66  2 / 3 % in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class; and. •  that certain provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66  2 / 3 % in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class.. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third-party's offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares.. 35. The concentration of ownership of our capital stock limits your ability to influence corporate matters.. Our executive officers, directors, current 5% or greater stockholders and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned (as determined in accordance with the rules of the SEC) approximately 63.9% of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Also, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if that change of control would benefit our other stockholders.. Non-U.S. holders who own or owned more than a certain ownership threshold may be subject to United States federal income tax on gains realized on the disposition of our common stock.. We believe that we are currently a U.S. real property holding corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. So long as our common stock continues to be regularly traded on an established securities market, a non-U.S. stockholder who holds or held (at any time during the shorter of the five year period preceding the date of disposition or the holder's holding period) more than 5% of our common stock will be subject to United States federal income tax on the disposition of our common stock. Non-U.S. holders should consult their own tax advisors concerning the consequences of disposing of shares of our common stock."
