[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Any of the following risk factors could:  (i) significantly impact our business, liquidity, capital resources, results of operations, financial condition, and debt ratings; and (ii) cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. These non-exhaustive risk factors might affect, alter, or change our actions executing our long-term capital strategy, including, but not limited to, contributing capital to any or all of the Insurance Subsidiaries, issuing additional debt and/or equity securities, repurchasing our equity securities, redeeming our fixed income securities, or increasing or decreasing stockholders' dividends.. Risks Related to our Insurance Operations. We are subject to losses from catastrophic events.. Our results are subject to losses from natural and man-made catastrophes, including, but not limited to:  hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, terrorism, including cyber-attacks, explosions, severe winter weather, floods, and fires, some of which may be related to climate changes.  The frequency and severity of these catastrophes are inherently unpredictable.  One year may be relatively free of such events while another may have multiple events.  For further discussion regarding man-made catastrophes that relate to terrorism, see the risk factor directly below regarding the potential for significant losses from acts of terrorism.. There is widespread interest among scientists, legislators, regulators, and the public regarding the effect that greenhouse gas emissions may have on our environment, including climate change.  If greenhouse gasses continue to impact our climate, it is possible that more devastating catastrophic events could occur.. The magnitude of catastrophe losses is determined by the severity of the event and the total amount of insured exposures in the area affected by the event as determined by ISO's Property Claim Services unit.  Most of the risks underwritten by our insurance operations are concentrated geographically in the Eastern and Midwestern regions of the country.  In 2017, approximately 20% of NPW were related to insurance policies written in New Jersey.  Catastrophes in the Eastern and Midwestern regions of the U.S. could adversely impact our financial results, as was the case in 2010, 2011, and 2012.. Although catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of property and casualty insurance lines, most of our historical catastrophe-related claims have been from commercial property and homeowners coverages.  In an effort to limit our exposure to catastrophe losses, we purchase catastrophe reinsurance.  Catastrophe reinsurance could prove inadequate if:  (i) the various modeling software programs that we use to analyze the Insurance Subsidiaries' risk result in an inadequate purchase of reinsurance by us; (ii) a major catastrophe loss exceeds the reinsurance limit or the reinsurers' financial capacity; or (iii) the frequency of catastrophe losses results in our Insurance Subsidiaries exceeding the aggregate limits provided by the catastrophe reinsurance treaty.  Even after considering our reinsurance protection, our exposure to catastrophe risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. Our loss and loss expense reserves may not be adequate to cover actual losses and expenses.. We are required to maintain loss and loss expense reserves for our estimated liability for loss and loss expense associated with reported and unreported insurance claims.  Our estimates of reserve amounts are based on facts and circumstances that we know, including our expectations of the ultimate settlement and claim administration expenses, trends in claims severity and frequency, including inflationary trends particularly regarding medical costs, predictions of future events, and other subjective factors relating to our insurance policies in force.  There is no method for precisely estimating the ultimate liability for. 17. settlement of claims.  We cannot be certain that the reserves we establish are adequate or will be adequate in the future.  From time-to-time, we increase reserves if they are inadequate or reduce them if they are redundant.  An increase in reserves:  (i) reduces net income and stockholders' equity for the period in which the reserves are increased; and (ii) could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. We are subject to potentially significant losses from acts of terrorism.. As a Standard Commercial Lines and E&S Lines writer, we are required to participate in TRIPRA, which was extended by Congress to December 31, 2020.  TRIPRA requires private insurers and the U.S. government to share the risk of loss on future acts of terrorism certified by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury.  Under TRIPRA, insureds with non-workers compensation commercial policies have the option to accept or decline our terrorism coverage or negotiate with us for other terms.  In 2017, 90% of our Standard Commercial Lines non-workers compensation policyholders purchased terrorism coverage that included nuclear, biological, chemical, and radioactive (\"NBCR\") events.  Terrorism coverage is mandatory for all primary workers compensation policies, so the TRIPRA back-stop applies to these policies.  A risk exists that, if the U.S. Secretary of Treasury does not certify certain future terrorist events, we would be required to pay related covered losses without TRIPRA's risk sharing benefits.  Examples of this potential risk are the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing and the 2015 shootings in San Bernardino, California, neither of which were certified as terrorism events.. Under TRIPRA, each participating insurer is responsible for paying a deductible of specified losses before federal assistance is available.  This deductible is based on a percentage of the prior year's applicable Standard Commercial Lines and E&S Lines premiums.  In 2018, our deductible is $323 million.  For losses above the deductible, the federal government will pay 82% of losses to an industry limit of $100 billion, and the insurer retains 18%.  The federal share of losses will be reduced by 1% each year to 80% by 2020.  Although TRIPRA's provisions will mitigate our loss exposure to a large-scale terrorist attack, our deductible is substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. TRIPRA rescinded all previously approved coverage exclusions for terrorism.  Many of the states in which we write commercial property insurance mandate that we cover fire following an act of terrorism regardless of whether the insured specifically purchased terrorism coverage.  Likewise, terrorism coverage cannot be excluded from workers compensation policies in any state in which we write.. Personal lines of business have never been covered under TRIPRA.  Homeowners policies within our Standard Personal Lines exclude nuclear losses, but do not exclude biological or chemical losses.. Our ability to reduce our risk exposure depends on the availability and cost of reinsurance.. We transfer a portion of our underwriting risk exposure to reinsurance companies.  Through our reinsurance arrangements, a specified portion of our loss and loss expense are assumed by the reinsurer in exchange for a specified portion of premiums.  The availability, amount, and cost of reinsurance depend on market conditions, which may vary significantly.  Most of our reinsurance contracts renew annually and may be impacted by the market conditions at the time of the renewal that are unrelated to our specific book of business or experience.  Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk of loss.  Any increase in the cost of reinsurance that cannot be included in renewal price increases will reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms.  Either could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue.. We are exposed to credit risk.. We are exposed to credit risk in several areas of our insurance operations, including from:. • Our reinsurers, who are obligated to us under our reinsurance agreements.  Amounts recoverable from our reinsurers can increase quickly and significantly during periods of high catastrophe loss activity, so our credit risk related to our reinsurance relationships can increase significantly and will fluctuate over time.  In addition, our reinsurers often rely on their own reinsurance programs, or retrocessions, as part of managing their exposure to large losses.  Given the relatively small size of the global reinsurance community, the inability of our reinsurers to collect on their retrocession program, or their inability to reinstate their coverage after a large loss, may impair their ability to pay us for the amounts we cede to them.  Accordingly, we have direct and indirect counterparty credit risk from our reinsurers.  We attempt to mitigate this credit risk by:  (i) pursuing relationships with reinsurers rated \"A-\" or higher by A.M. Best; and/or (ii) obtaining collateral to secure reinsurance obligations.. • Certain life insurance companies if they fail to fulfill their obligations to those customers for whom we have purchased annuities under structured settlement agreements.. 18. • Some of our distribution partners, who collect premiums due us from our customers.. • Some of our customers, who are responsible for payment of premiums and/or deductibles directly to us.. • The invested assets in our defined benefit plan, which partially serve to fund our liability associated with this plan.  To the extent that credit risk adversely impacts the valuation and performance of the invested assets within our defined benefit plan, the funded status of the defined benefit plan could be adversely impacted and, as result, could increase the cost of the plan to us.. Our exposure to credit risk could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. Difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy may adversely affect our revenue and profitability and harm our business, and these conditions may not improve in the near future.. General economic conditions in the U.S. and throughout the world and volatility in financial and insurance markets may materially affect our results of operations.  Factors such as business and consumer confidence, unemployment levels, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, indirectly, the amount and profitability of our business.  During 2017, 33% of DPW in our Standard Commercial Lines business was based on payroll/sales of our underlying customers.  An economic downturn in which our customers experience declines in revenue or employee count could adversely affect our audit and endorsement premium in our Standard Commercial Lines.. Unfavorable economic developments could adversely affect our earnings if our customers have less need for insurance coverage, cancel existing insurance policies, modify coverage, or choose not to renew with us.  Challenging economic conditions may impair the ability of our customers to pay premiums as they come due.  Adverse economic conditions may have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A significant financial strength rating downgrade, particularly from A.M. Best, would affect our ability to write new or renewal business with customers, some of whom are required under various third party agreements to maintain insurance with a carrier with a specified minimum rating.  In addition, our $30 million line of credit (\"Line of Credit\") requires our Insurance Subsidiaries to maintain an A.M. Best rating of at least \"A-\" (one level below our current rating) and a default could lead to acceleration of any outstanding principal.  Such an event could trigger default provisions under certain of our other debt instruments and negatively impact our ability to borrow in the future.  As a result, any significant downgrade in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.  Refer to Item 1. \"Business\" for our current financial strength ratings.. Nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (\"NRSROs\") also rate our long-term debt creditworthiness.  Credit ratings indicate the ability of debt issuers to meet debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity.  Our current senior credit ratings are as follows:. NRSRO   Credit Rating   Long Term Credit Outlook A.M. Best   bbb+   Stable S&P   BBB   Stable Moody's   Baa2   Stable Fitch   BBB+   Stable. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including making it more expensive for us to access capital markets.  We cannot predict possible actions NRSROs may take regarding our ratings that could adversely affect our business or the possible actions we may take in response to any such actions.. 19. We have many competitors and potential competitors.. Demand for insurance is influenced by prevailing general economic conditions.  The supply of insurance is related to prevailing prices, insured loss levels, and industry capital levels that may fluctuate in response to changing rates of return on insurance industry investments.  Pricing also is influenced by the operating performance of insurers, who may increase pricing to meet return on equity objectives.  As a result, the insurance industry has had historical cycles characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity and periods of favorable pricing driven by shortages of capacity and poor insurer operating performance.  If competitors price business below technical levels, we might find it necessary to reduce our profit margin to retain our best business.. Pricing and loss trends impact our profitability.  For example, assuming retention and all other factors remain constant:. • A pure price decline of approximately 1% would increase our combined ratio by approximately 0.75 points;. • A 3% increase in our expected claim costs for the current accident year would cause our loss and loss expense ratio to increase by approximately 1.75 points;. • A combination of the two could raise the combined ratio by approximately 2.5 points.. In addition, loss trends impacting current accident year results are likely to impact our reserves for prior accident years.  For example, medical inflation can have a significant impact on the reserves of long-tail lines such as workers compensation and general liability.  A 3% increase in our reserves would cause our loss and loss expense ratio to increase by approximately 4 points.. We compete with regional, national, and direct-writer property and casualty insurance companies for customers, distribution partners, and employees.  Some competitors are public companies and some are mutual companies.  Many competitors are larger and may have lower operating costs, lower cost of capital, or the ability to absorb greater risk while maintaining their financial strength ratings.  Consequently, some competitors may be able to price their products more competitively.  These competitive pressures could result in increased pricing pressures on a number of our products and services, particularly as competitors seek to win market share, and may limit our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  Because of its relatively low cost of entry, the internet has emerged as a significant place of new competition, both from existing competitors and new competitors.  New competitors emerging under this digital platform include, but are not limited to, Lemonade and Attune.  Reinsurers also have entered certain primary property and casualty insurance markets to diversify their operations and compete with us.  Further new competition could cause changes in the supply or demand for insurance and adversely affect our business.. We have less loss experience data than our larger competitors.. Insurers rely on their ability to access reliable data about their customers and loss experience to build complex analytics and predictive models to assess the profitability of risks, as well as the potential for adverse claim development, recovery opportunities, fraudulent activities, and customer buying habits.  The use of data science and analytics will continue to increase and become more complex and accurate.  The loss experience from our insurance operations may not be large or granular enough in all circumstances to analyze and project our future costs.  In addition, we have more limited experience data related to our E&S business, which we purchased in 2011.  We use data from ISO, AAIS, and NCCI to obtain industry loss experience to supplement our own data.  While statistically relevant, that data is not specific to the performance of risks we have underwritten.  Larger competitors, particularly national carriers, have a significantly larger volume of data regarding the performance of risks that they have underwritten.  The analytics of their loss experience data may be more predictive of profitability of their risks than our analysis using, in part, general industry loss experience.  For the same reason, should Congress repeal the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which provides an anti-trust exemption for the aggregation of loss data, and we are unable to access data from ISO, AAIS, and NCCI, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to larger insurers who have more loss experience data on their own customers and may not need aggregated industry loss data.. We depend on distribution partners.. We market and sell our insurance products through distribution partners who are not our employees.  We believe that these partners will remain a significant force in overall insurance industry premium production because they can provide customers with a wider choice of insurance products than if they represented only one insurer.  However, changes impacting our distribution channel may present challenges and risks to our strategy, including the following:. • The availability of products from multiple markets creates competition in our distribution channel and we must market our products and services to our distribution partners before they sell them to our mutual customers.. • Growth in our market share is dependent in part on growth in the market share controlled by our distribution partners.  The independent retail insurance agencies control approximately 83% of Standard Commercial Lines. 20. business but only 36% of Standard Personal Lines business in the U.S.  This, in turn, limits our Standard Personal Lines market opportunity.  In addition, in the last several years, both existing and new industry participants have been focusing on developing new platforms that are leveraging technology and the internet to provide a low cost \"direct to the customer\" distribution model.  These efforts may impact the overall market share controlled by our distribution partners and make it more difficult for us to grow or require us to establish relationships with more distribution partners.. • There has been a trend towards increased consolidation within our distribution channel, which increases competition among fewer distributors and increases the influence each distribution partner has on our business. Currently, no one distribution partner is responsible for 10% or more of our combined insurance operations' premium.. Our financial condition and results of operations are tied to the successful marketing and sales efforts of our products by our distribution partners.  In addition, under insurance laws and regulations and common law, we potentially can be held liable for business practices or actions taken by our distribution partners.. Expansion of our insurance offerings and geographic footprint may create additional risks. Part of our growth strategy includes careful geographic and product expansion.  In 2017, we established a Southwest Region when we expanded our Standard Commercial Lines writings into Arizona.  We also expanded our Standard Commercial Lines business into New Hampshire in 2017 and on January 1, 2018 we began writing in Colorado.  We expect to continue to diversify our book of business through geographic and product expansion.  Although diversification of our business is beneficial to our competitive position and long-term results, it exposes us to increased and different risks.  Among such increased risks are catastrophic natural risks to which we previously only had limited exposure due to our narrower geographic footprint.  These new risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. We are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability, increase our capital requirements, and/or limit our growth.. Our Insurance Subsidiaries are heavily regulated by extensive laws and regulations that may change on short notice.  The primary public policy behind insurance regulation is the protection of policyholders and claimants over all other constituencies, including shareholders.  Historically by virtue of the McCarran-Ferguson Act, our Insurance Subsidiaries are primarily regulated by the states in which they are domiciled and licensed.  State insurance regulation is generally uniform throughout the U.S. by virtue of similar laws and regulations required by the NAIC to accredit state insurance departments so their examinations can be given full faith and credit by other state regulators.  Despite their general similarity, various provisions of these laws and regulations vary from state to state.  At any given time, there may be various legislative and regulatory proposals in each of the 50 states and District of Columbia that, if enacted, may affect our Insurance Subsidiaries.   The types of activities that are regulated by the states include:. • Pricing and underwriting practices;. • Claims practices;. • Exiting geographic markets and/or canceling or non-renewing policies;. • Assessments for guaranty funds and second-injury funds and other mandatory assigned risks and reinsurance;. • The types, quality and concentration of investments we make;. • Dividends from our Insurance Subsidiaries to the Parent; and. • The acquisition of 10% or more of the stock of a company such as Selective, which is an insurance holding company that owns insurance subsidiaries.. 21. The broad regulatory, administrative, and supervisory powers of the various state departments of insurance include the following:. • Related to our financial condition, review and approval of such matters as minimum capital and surplus requirements, standards of solvency, security deposits, methods of accounting, form and content of statutory financial statements, reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, reinsurance, payment of dividends and other distributions to shareholders, periodic financial examinations, and annual and other report filings.. • Related to our general business, review and approval of such matters as certificates of authority and other insurance company licenses, licensing and compensation of distribution partners, premium rates (which may not be excessive, inadequate, or unfairly discriminatory), policy forms, policy terminations, reporting of statistical information regarding our premiums and losses, periodic market conduct examinations, unfair trade practices, participation in mandatory shared market mechanisms, such as assigned risk pools and reinsurance pools, participation in mandatory state guaranty funds, and mandated continuing workers compensation coverage post-termination of employment.. • Related to our ownership of the Insurance Subsidiaries, we are required to register as an insurance holding company system in each state where an insurance subsidiary is domiciled and report information concerning all of our operations that may materially affect the operations, management, or financial condition of the insurers.  As an insurance holding company, the appropriate state regulatory authority may:  (i) examine our Insurance Subsidiaries or us at any time; (ii) require disclosure or prior approval of material transactions of any of the Insurance Subsidiaries with its affiliates; and (iii) require prior approval or notice of certain transactions, such as payment of dividends or distributions to us.. Although Congress has largely delegated insurance regulation to the various states by virtue of the McCarran-Ferguson Act, we are also subject to federal legislation and administrative policies, such as disclosure under the securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, TRIPRA, OFAC, and various privacy laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Drivers Privacy Protection Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and the policies of the Federal Trade Commission.  As a result of issuing workers compensation policies, we are subject to Mandatory Medicare Secondary Payer Reporting under the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007.  If Congress were to enact laws affecting the oversight of insurer solvency but state regulators remain responsible for rate approval, it is possible that we could be subject to a conflicting and inconsistent regulatory framework that could effect our profitability and capital adequacy.. The European Union enacted Solvency II, which was implemented in 2016 and sets out new requirements for capital adequacy and risk management for insurers operating in Europe.  The strengthened regime is intended to reduce the possibility of consumer loss or market disruption in insurance.  In addition, in 2014, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors proposed Basic Capital Standards for Global Systemically Important Insurers as well as a uniform capital framework for internationally active insurers.  Although Solvency II does not govern domestic American insurers, and we do not have international operations, we believe that development of global capital standards will influence the development of similar standards by domestic regulators.  The NAIC requires insurers to maintain a framework for identifying, assessing, monitoring, managing, and reporting on the \"material and relevant risks\" associated with the insurer's (or insurance group's) current and future business plans.  ORSA requires companies to file an internal assessment of their solvency with insurance regulators annually.  Although no specific capital adequacy standard is currently articulated in ORSA, it is possible that such a standard will be developed over time and may increase insurers' minimum capital requirements, which could adversely impact our growth and return on equity.. We are subject to non-governmental regulators, such as the NASDAQ Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange where we list our securities.  Many of these regulators, to some degree, overlap with each other on various matters.  They have different regulations on the same legal issues that are subject to their individual interpretative discretion.  Consequently, we have the risk that one regulator's position may conflict with another regulator's position on the same issue.  As compliance is generally reviewed in hindsight, we are subject to the risk that interpretations will change over time.. We believe we are in compliance with all laws and regulations that have a material effect on our results of operations, but the cost of complying with various, potentially conflicting laws and regulations, and changes in those laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. 22. Class action litigation could affect our business practices and financial results.. Our industry has been the target of class action litigation, including the following areas:. • Urban homeowner insurance underwriting practices, including those related to architectural or structural features and attempts by federal regulators to expand the Federal Housing Administration's guidelines to determine unfair discrimination;. • Credit scoring and predictive modeling pricing;. • Cybersecurity breaches;. • Investment disclosure;. • Managed care practices;. • Prompt and appropriate payment of personal injury protection claims;. • Direct repair shop utilization practices;. • The use of after-market replacement parts;. • Flood insurance claim practices; and. • Shareholder class action suits.. If we were to be named in such class action litigation, we could suffer reputational harm with purchasers of insurance and have increased litigation expenses that could have a materially adverse effect on our operations or results.. Risks Related to Our Investment Segment. We are exposed to interest rate risk in our investment portfolio.. We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily related to the market price, and cash flow variability, associated with changes in interest rates.  Recent economic data points to increased U.S. and global economic growth, continued low levels of unemployment and signs of rising wages, which compounded with the potential for the pro-growth benefits of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"Tax Reform\") and the potential for higher federal budget deficits, has recently led to rising U.S. interest rates.  A rise in interest rates may decrease the fair value of our existing fixed income investments and declines in interest rates may result in an increase in the fair value of our existing fixed income investments.  Our fixed income securities portfolio, which currently has an effective duration of 3.8 years contains interest rate sensitive instruments that may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates resulting from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control.  A rise in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized gain position of the investment portfolio, partially offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested in new investments.  Conversely, a decline in interest rates would increase the net unrealized gain position of the investment portfolio, partially offset by lower rates of return on new and reinvested cash in the portfolio.  Changes in interest rates have an effect on the calculated duration of certain securities in the portfolio.  We seek to mitigate our interest rate risk associated with holding fixed income investments by monitoring and maintaining the average duration of our portfolio with a view toward achieving an adequate after-tax return without subjecting the portfolio to an unreasonable level of interest rate risk.  This may include investing in floating rate securities, which currently represent 18% of our fixed income portfolio, and other shorter duration securities that exhibit low effective duration and interest rate risk, but expose the portfolio to other risks, including the risk of a change in credit spreads, liquidity spreads, and other factors that may adversely impact the value of the portfolio.  Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities, particularly our loss reserves.  In addition, our pension and post-retirement benefit obligations include a discount rate assumption, which is an important element of expense and/or liability measurement.  Changes in the discount rate assumption could materially impact our pension and post-retirement life valuation.. We are exposed to credit risk in our investment portfolio.. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to credit risk from the issuers and/or guarantors of the securities in the portfolio, other counterparties in certain transactions and, for certain securities, insurers that guarantee specific issuer's obligations.  Defaults by the issuer or an issuer's guarantor, insurer, or other counterparties regarding any of our investments, could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses.  We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed income securities we own may default on principal and interest payments due under the terms of the securities.  In addition, changes in the financial market environment and sentiment regarding the broad economy may impact the credit spreads demanded by fixed income investors, which in turn may negatively impact the fair market value of our fixed income securities.  At December 31, 2017, our fixed income securities portfolio represented approximately 92% of our total invested assets, of which approximately 97% were investment grade and 3% were below investment grade rated, resulting in an average credit rating of AA- of the fixed income securities portfolio.  Our spread duration, which is reflective of the sensitivity of our fixed income portfolio to changes in credit spread is currently 4.6 years.  Over time, our exposure to below investment grade securities and other credit sensitive risk assets may fluctuate as we continue. 23. to diversify the portfolio and take advantage of opportunities to add or reduce risk commensurate with our risk-taking capacity and market conditions.  The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, budgetary deficits, municipal bankruptcies spurred by, among other things, pension funding issues, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of these securities could cause the value of our fixed income securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of our fixed income securities portfolio to increase.. With economic uncertainty, the credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected and a ratings downgrade of the issuers or guarantors of the securities in our portfolio could cause the value of our fixed income securities portfolio and our net income to decrease.  As our stockholders' equity is leveraged at 3.32:1 to our investment portfolio, a reduction in the value of our investment portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and debt ratings.  Levels of write-downs are impacted by our assessment of the impairment, including a review of the underlying collateral of structured securities, and our intent and ability to hold securities that have declined in value until recovery.  If we reposition or realign portions of the portfolio so that we determine not to hold certain securities in an unrealized loss position to recovery, we will incur an OTTI charge.  For further information regarding credit and interest rate risk, see Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\" of this Form 10-K.. Our statutory surplus may be materially affected by rating downgrades on investments held in our portfolio.. We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks, primarily relating to interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, and the change in market value of our alternative investment portfolio.  A decline in both income and our investment portfolio asset values could occur as a result of, among other things, a decrease in market liquidity, fluctuations in interest rates, decreased dividend payment rates, negative market perception of credit risk with respect to types of securities in our portfolio, a decline in the performance of the underlying collateral of our structured securities, reduced returns on our alternative investment portfolio, or general market conditions.  A global decline in asset values will be more amplified in our financial condition, as our statutory surplus is leveraged at a 3.2:1 ratio to our investment portfolio.. With economic uncertainty, the credit quality and ratings of securities in our portfolio could be adversely affected.  The NAIC could potentially apply a more adverse class code on a security than was originally assigned, which could adversely affect statutory surplus because securities with NAIC class codes three through six require securities to be marked-to-market for statutory accounting purposes, as compared to securities with NAIC class codes of one or two that are carried at amortized cost.. We are subject to the types of risks inherent in investing in private limited partnerships.. Our other investments include investments in private limited partnerships that invest in various strategies, such as private equity, private credit, and real assets.  Since these partnerships' underlying investments consist primarily of assets or liabilities for which there are no quoted prices in active markets for the same or similar assets, the valuation of interests in these partnerships is subject to a higher level of subjectivity and unobservable inputs than substantially all of our other investments and as such, is subject to greater scrutiny and reconsideration from one reporting period to the next.  As these investments are recorded under the equity method of accounting, any decreases in the valuation of these investments would negatively impact our results of operations.  We currently expect to increase our allocation to these investments, which may result in additional variability in our net investment income.. We value our investments using methodologies, estimations, and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations.  Changes in these interpretations could result in fluctuations in the valuations of our investments that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Fixed income, equity, and short-term investments, which are reported at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, represented the majority of our total cash and invested assets as of December 31, 2017.  As required under accounting rules, we have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique.  The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1).  The next priority is to quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or in markets that are not active and other inputs that can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities (Level 2).  The lowest priority in the fair value hierarchy is to unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity and that reflect the reporting entity's own assumptions about the exit price, including assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (Level 3).. An asset or liability's classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation.  We generally use an independent pricing service and broker quotes to price our investment securities.  At December 31, 2017, approximately 6% and 93% of these securities represented Level 1 and Level 2, respectively.  However, prices provided by independent pricing services and brokers can vary widely even for the same security.  Rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our. 24. consolidated financial statements (\"Financial Statements\") and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.  Decreases in value may result in an increase in non-cash OTTI charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or our financial position.. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is based on our periodic evaluation and assessment of our investments and known and inherent risks associated with the various asset classes.  Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.  Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in impairments as such evaluations are revised.  There can be no assurance that management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken as reflected in our Financial Statements.  Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future.  It is possible that interest rates, which are at historic lows, will increase which will result in a reduction in net unrealized gains and may result in net unrealized losses associated with declines in value strictly related to such interest rate movements.  It is possible that this could result in realized losses if we sell such securities or possibly more OTTI if we determine we do not have the ability and intent to hold those securities until they recover in value.  In addition, we recently hired several new investment managers and expect them to take a more active approach to managing our fixed income securities portfolio.  As a result, we expect our OTTI to increase in coming periods based on an increase in securities that we may intend to sell despite being in an unrealized loss position.  Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.  For further information regarding our evaluation and considerations for determining whether a security is other-than-temporarily impaired, please refer to \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in Item 7. \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" of this Form 10-K.. Changes in tax law could adversely affect our investments results.. Amendments to the tax laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state, and local governments may adversely impact us.  Our investment portfolio benefits from tax exemptions and certain other tax laws, including, non-exhaustively those governing dividends received deductions, and tax-advantaged municipal bond interest.  Future federal and/or state tax law changes could lessen or eliminate some or all of these favorable tax advantages, negatively impact the value of our investment portfolio, and materially and adversely impact our results of operations.  In addition, the elimination of the state and local tax deduction (the \"SALT deduction\") for U.S. taxpayers filing Federal income tax returns could have negative consequences to the financial strength of issuers of state and local municipal securities of which we have invested in, which could reduce the value of our investment portfolio, and materially and adversely impact our results of operations.  The elimination of the SALT deduction, as well as the lower $750,000 mortgage cap on the deductibility of mortgage interest for U.S. taxpayers, could reduce the value of residential real estate, which could have negative financial consequences to various classes of investments that we have invested in, such as residential mortgage backed securities, and other asset classes backed by mortgages or real estate, and this could reduce the value of our investment portfolio, and materially and adversely impact our results of operations.. Uncertainty regarding domestic and international political developments and their impact on the economy could lead to investment losses, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and debt ratings.. As a property and casualty insurance holding company, we depend on income from our investment portfolio for a significant portion of our revenue and earnings.  Our investment portfolio is exposed to significant financial and capital market risks, both in the U.S. and abroad.  Volatile changes in general market or economic conditions could lead to a decline in the market value of our portfolio as well as the performance of the underlying collateral of our structured securities.  The current political climate has created more uncertainty about U.S. domestic and foreign policy that may elevate the volatility of the financial markets and adversely impact our investment portfolio.. Our notes payable and line of credit are subject to certain debt-to-capitalization restrictions and net worth covenants that a significant decline in investment value could impact.  Significant future declines in investment value also could require further OTTI charges.  Depending on future market conditions, such as an extreme prolonged market event like the global credit crisis, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods that could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, debt and financial strength ratings, and our ability to access capital markets.. For more information regarding market interest rate, credit, and equity price risk, see Item 7A. \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\" of this Form 10-K.. 25. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Governance. We are a holding company and our ability to declare dividends to our shareholders, pay indebtedness, and enter into affiliate transactions may be limited because our Insurance Subsidiaries are regulated.. Restrictions on the ability of the Insurance Subsidiaries to pay dividends, make loans or advances to us, or enter into transactions with affiliates may materially affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or repay our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, the Parent had retained earnings of $1.7 billion.  Of this amount, $1.6 billion was related to investments in our Insurance Subsidiaries.  The Insurance Subsidiaries have the ability to provide for $211 million in ordinary annual dividends to us in 2018 under applicable state regulation; however, as they are regulated entities, their ability to pay dividends or make loans or advances to us is subject to the approval or review of the insurance regulators in the states where they are domiciled.  The standards for review of such transactions are whether:  (i) the terms and charges are fair and reasonable; and (ii) after the transaction, the Insurance Subsidiary's surplus for policyholders is reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and financial needs.  Although dividends and loans to us from our Insurance Subsidiaries historically have been approved, we can make no assurance that future dividends and loans will be approved.  For additional details regarding dividend restrictions, see Note 19. \"Statutory Financial Information, Capital Requirements, and Restrictions on Dividends and Transfers of Funds\" in Item 8. \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\" of this Form 10-K.. Because we are an insurance holding company and a New Jersey corporation, we may be less attractive to potential acquirers and the value of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Because we are an insurance holding company that owns insurance subsidiaries, anyone who seeks to acquire 10% or more of our stock must seek prior approval from the insurance regulators in the states in which the subsidiaries are organized and file extensive information regarding their business operations and finances.. Provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation may discourage, delay, or prevent us from being acquired, including:. • Supermajority shareholder voting requirements to approve certain business combinations with interested shareholders (as defined in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation) unless certain other conditions are satisfied; and. • Supermajority shareholder voting requirements to amend the foregoing provisions in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.. In addition to the requirements in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the New Jersey Shareholders' Protection Act also prohibits us from engaging in certain business combinations with interested stockholders (as defined in the statute), in certain instances for a five-year period, and in other instances indefinitely, unless certain conditions are satisfied. These conditions may relate to, among other things, the interested stockholder's acquisition of stock, the approval of the business combination by disinterested members of our Board of Directors and disinterested stockholders, and the price and payment of the consideration proposed in the business combination.  Such conditions are in addition to those requirements set forth in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.. These provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and New Jersey law could have the effect of depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over our common stock's prevailing market price in the event of a hostile takeover and may adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Risks Related to Evolving Legislation. We face risks regarding our flood business because of uncertainties regarding the NFIP.. We are the fifth largest insurance group in the WYO arrangement of the NFIP, which is managed by the Mitigation Division of FEMA in the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.  Under the arrangement, we receive an expense allowance for policies written and a servicing fee for claims administered, and all losses are 100% reinsured by the Federal Government.  The current expense allowance is 30.9% of DPW.  The servicing fee is the combination of 0.9% of DPW and 1.5% of incurred losses.. As a WYO carrier, we are required to follow NFIP procedures in the administration of flood policies and claims.  Some of these requirements may differ from our normal business practices and may present a reputational risk to our brand.  While insurance companies are regulated by the states and the NFIP requires WYO carriers to be licensed in the states in which they operate, the NFIP is a federal program and WYO carriers are fiscal agents of the U.S. Government and must follow the NFIP's directives.  Consequently, we have the risk that directives from the NFIP and a state regulator on the same issue may conflict.. 26. There has been significant public policy and political debate regarding the NFIP and its outstanding debt, including the NFIP's purchase of reinsurance.  Prior to Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, in the third quarter of 2017, the NFIP had accumulated debt totaling approximately $25 billion.  Losses from the 2017 storms are estimated to total approximately $16 billion and, together with its previously accumulated debt, likely would exceed the NFIP's total borrowing authority.  In response, Congress passed legislation that forgave $16 billion of NFIP debt and allowed recent flood claims to be paid within the program's $25 billion debt level.  In November 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Flood Reform Act, which would extend the NFIP for 5 years, but reduce the WYO reimbursement rate by 3 points from its current 30.9% to 27.9% over a three-year period.  The bill also proposes changes in certain operational processes and provides incentives for the private flood markets.  The U.S. Senate has yet to consider this bill.  While Congress continues to debate a comprehensive reform package, the NFIP has received multiple short-term extensions and is currently authorized through March 23, 2018.  We expect the program will continue to operate under a series of short-term extensions, but it may also experience a periodic lapse as it becomes encumbered by other budgetary issues.. Our flood business could be impacted by:  (i) a lapse in program authorization; (ii) any mandate for primary insurance carriers to provide flood insurance; or (iii) private writers becoming more prevalent in the marketplace.  The uncertainty created by the public policy debate and politics of flood insurance reform make it difficult for us to predict the future of the NFIP and our continued participation in the program.. We are subject to risk that enacted legislation might significantly change insurance regulation and adversely impacts our business, financial condition, and/or the results of operations.. We cannot predict what federal and state rules or legislation will be proposed and adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or the cost of compliance with such proposals, could have on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. In 2009, Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act to address corporate governance and control issues identified in the financial crises in 2008 and 2009 and the non-insurance subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc.  One of the key Dodd-Frank Act provisions created the FIO as part of the U.S. Department of Treasury to advise the federal government on insurance issues.  Another Dodd-Frank Act provision requires the Federal Reserve, through the Financial Services Oversight Council (\"FSOC\"), to supervise financial service firms designated as systemically important financial institutions (\"SIFI\").  We are not and do not expect to be designated as a SIFI.  Included among Dodd-Frank's corporate governance reforms for public companies were proxy access, say-on-pay, and other compensation and governance issues.  A number of Dodd-Frank reform bills have been introduced, but it is uncertain whether any proposal will pass into law.. In general, the Trump Administration and the current Republican majority favor less federal involvement in insurance.  Legislative proposals, however, could involve the federal government directly in regulating the business of insurance.  President Trump and the Republican congressional majority favor the repeal of the Affordable Care Act (\"ACA\").  Repeal of the ACA presents some legal and practical challenges.  Some reform proposals include a provision to permit sales of insurance across state lines, which is not permitted under current federal law without approval of the respective state insurance regulators. Some ACA reforms call for the elimination of the anti-trust exemptions for health insurers under the McCarran-Ferguson Act.  While we are not a health insurer, we and our property and casualty competitors operate under anti-trust exemptions that permit the aggregation of claims and other data in numbers actuarially and statistically sufficient to price insurance.  If the MFA were repealed for the property and casualty industry, we would have to seek a business practices exemption from the Department of Justice to share information with other insurers.  We cannot predict the impact such a legislative event could have on our product and services supplier relationships, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. Legislative and regulatory proposals in various states sometimes seek to limit the ability of insurers to assess insurance risk, including limiting or prohibiting the use of certain factors or predictive measures in property and casualty underwriting such as insurance scores and marketplace considerations.  These proposals, if enacted, could impact underwriting pricing and results of operations.. 27. Risks Related to Our General Operations. The failure of our risk management strategies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. As an insurance provider, it is our business to take on risk from our customers.  Our long-term strategy includes the use of above average operational leverage, which can be measured as the ratio of NPW to our equity or policyholders surplus.  We balance operational leverage risk with a number of risk management strategies within our insurance operations to achieve a balance of growth and profit and to reduce our exposure.  These strategies include, but are not limited to, the following:. • Being disciplined in our underwriting practices;. • Being prudent in our claims management practices, establishing adequate loss and loss expense reserves, and placing appropriate reliance on our claims analytics;. • Continuing to develop and implement various underwriting tools and automated analytics to examine historical statistical data regarding our customers and their loss experience to:  (i) classify such policies based on that information; (ii) apply that information to current and prospective accounts; and (iii) better predict account profitability;. • Continuing to develop our customer experience platform as we grow in our understanding of customer segmentation;. • Purchasing reinsurance and using catastrophe modeling; and. • Being prudent in our financial planning process, which supports our underwriting strategies.. We also maintain a conservative approach to our investment portfolio management and employ risk management strategies that include, but are not limited to:. • Being prudent in establishing our investment policy and appropriately diversifying our investments, which supports our liabilities and underwriting strategies;. • Using models to analyze historical investment performance and predict future investment performance under a variety of scenarios using asset concentration, asset volatility, asset correlation, and systematic risk; and. • Closely monitoring investment performance, general economic and financial conditions, and other relevant factors.. All of these strategies have inherent limitations.  We cannot be certain that an event or series of unanticipated events will not occur and result in losses greater than we expect and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business.. Operational risks and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, or external events.. Our predictive models for underwriting, claims, and catastrophe losses, as well as our business analytics and our information technology and application systems are critical to our business.  We expect our information technology and application systems to remain an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully.  A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could:  (i) result in management distraction; (ii) harm our reputation; or (iii) increase our expenses.  We believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent significant risk of a defect in our internal controls around our information technology and application systems, but internal controls provide only a reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls and procedures could have a significant and negative effect on our business.. 28. Rapid development of new technologies may result in an unexpected impact on our business and insurance industry overall.. Development of new technologies continues to impact all aspects of business and individuals' lives at rapid speed.  Often such developments are positive and gradually improve standards of living and speed of communications, and allow for the development of more efficient processes.  The rapid development of new technologies, however, also presents challenges and risks.  Examples of such emerging risks include, but are not limited to:. • Change in exposures and claims frequency and/or severity due to unanticipated consequences of new technologies and their use.  For example, technologies have been developed and are being tested for autonomous self-driving automobiles.  It is unclear and we cannot predict the corresponding impact to automobile claims.  It is possible that these technological developments will affect the profitability and demand for automobile insurance.. • Changes in how insurance products are marketed and purchased due to the availability of new technologies and changes in customer expectations.  For example, comparative rating technologies, which are widely used inpersonal lines insurance, facilitate the process of efficiently generating quotes from multiple insurance companies.  This technology makes differentiation based upon factors other than pricing more difficult and has increased price comparisons, resulting in a higher level of quote activity with a lower percentage of quotes becoming new business written.  These trends may continue to accelerate and may affect other lines of business, which could put pressure on our future profitability and growth.. • New technologies may require the development of new insurance products without the support of sufficient historical claims data for us to continue to compete effectively for our distribution partners' business and customers.. We depend on key personnel.. To a large extent, our business' success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees.  Competition to attract and retain key personnel is intense.  While we have employment agreements with certain key managers, all of our employees are at-will employees and we cannot ensure that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel.  As of December 31, 2017, our workforce had an average age of approximately 47 and approximately 18% of our workforce was retirement eligible, which we define as including individuals who are 55 years of age and have 10 or more years of service.. We are subject to a variety of modeling risks, which could have a material adverse impact on our business results.. We rely on complex financial models, such as predictive underwriting models, a claims fraud model, third party catastrophe models, an enterprise risk management capital model, and modeling tools used by our investment managers, which have been developed internally or by third parties to analyze historical loss costs and pricing, trends in claims severity and frequency, the occurrence of catastrophe losses, investment performance, and portfolio risk.  Flaws in these financial models, or faulty assumptions used by these financial models, could lead to increased losses.  We believe that statistical models alone do not provide a reliable method for monitoring and controlling risk.  Therefore, such models are tools and do not substitute for the experience or judgment of senior management.. We are subject to attempted cyber-attacks and other cybersecurity risks.. Our business heavily relies on various information technology and application systems that are connected to, or may be accessed from, the Internet and may be impacted by a malicious cyber-attack.  Our systems also contain confidential and proprietary information regarding our operations, our employees, our agents, and our customers and their employees and property, including personally identifiable information.  A malicious cyber-attack on our systems or those of our vendors may interrupt our ability to operate and impact our results of operations.  We have, and expect to continue to, develop and invest in a variety of controls to prevent, detect, and appropriately react to cyber-attacks, including frequently testing our systems' security and access controls.  Cyber-attacks continue to become more complex and broad-ranging, and our internal controls provide only a reasonable, not absolute, assurance that we will be able to protect ourselves from significant cyber-attack incidents.  By outsourcing certain business and administrative functions to third parties, we may be exposed to enhanced risk of data security breaches.  Any breach of our systems or data security could damage our reputation and/or result in monetary damages that, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.  Although we have not experienced a material cyber-attack, it is possible that it might occur.  We have insurance coverage for certain cybersecurity risks, including privacy breach incidents, that provides protection up to $20 million above a deductible of $1 million.  In addition, within our Standard Commercial Lines segment, we offer cyber-related insurance products for which we have mitigated the majority of the related risk through protection under our reinsurance treaties.. 29. Given the increased number of identity thefts from cyber-attacks, federal and state policymakers have, and will likely continue to propose increased regulation of the protection of personally identifiable information and appropriate protocols after a related cybersecurity breach.  The New York Department of Financial Services recently adopted a cyber protection and reporting regulation for financial services companies with which we are complying.  The NAIC also has adopted a model regulation based upon the New York regulation, and we expect other states to consider adoption of the NAIC model in 2018.  Compliance with these regulations and efforts to address continually developing cybersecurity risks may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition, financial strength, and debt ratings.. Changes in tax law could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state, and local governments, and their amendment could adversely impact us.  For example, the U.S. tax code was recently amended to reduce the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for the 2018 tax year.  As a result, our deferred tax assets were reduced and we were required to recognize a reduction of a previously-recognized federal tax benefit in the fourth quarter of 2017, when enacted.  Potential future tax rule changes may increase or decrease our actual tax expense and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. If we experience difficulties with outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our business might be negatively impacted.. We currently outsource certain business and administrative functions to third parties for expediency, efficiency and economies of scale and this outsourcing may increase in the future.  If we or our third-party partners falter in the development, implementation, or execution of our outsourcing strategies, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs, and customer losses that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  We have supplemental staffing service agreements with multiple consulting, information technology, and service providers that supply approximately 47% of our skilled technology capacity.  These resources are principally based in the U.S., although some of the resources are foreign.  The impact of the recently-enacted U.S. tax reform on the availability and cost of these services is still uncertain."
