[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. A wide range of factors could materially affect our performance. The following factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. Although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We do not expect to complete the sale of a note for $1.6 million and if we are ordered to return a $500 thousand payment, we may not be able to continue as a going concern.. We entered into a definitive purchase agreement effective July 6, 2016 with Dr. Peter Chiou, which was assigned to Well Thrive on August 4, 2016. Pursuant to the agreement, Well Thrive purchased 577 thousand newly issued shares of common stock for $2,885 thousand on August 23, 2016. Well Thrive also agreed to subscribe to a $1,615 thousand SemiLEDs Corporation's 0% interest convertible note (the \"Note\") with a September 29, 2017 maturity date. Subject to shareholder approval at the Company's next shareholders meeting, the Note would be convertible, at the Company's option, into a number of shares of the Company's common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) $1,615,000 by (y) the conversion price, which is equal to the lesser of $3.40 or the 5-trading day volume weighted average price of the common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market ending on the maturity date. We received $500 thousand of the total $1,615 thousand Note amount on August 16, 2016. On December 16, 2016, we sent a formal notice of demand under purchase agreement to Dr. Peter Chiou and Well Thrive and requested them to deliver the $1,115 thousand balance of the Note purchase price by December 31, 2016, which deadline was extended to January 7, 2017. On January 6, 2017, Well Thrive informed us that it was not prepared to complete the purchase of the Note at this time and demanded the return of the $500 thousand advance and the $2,885 thousand for the shares purchased by Well Thrive in August 2016. The agreement provides that any deposit may be retained by us as liquidated damages if Well Thrive did not complete the purchase of the Note by December 31, 2016. On June 21, 2017, Well Thrive filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware seeking return of the $500 thousand payment. Well Thrive alleges that the liquidated damages provision is unenforceable as an illegal penalty and does not reflect the amount of purported damages. Any judgment requiring us to return amounts previously paid by Well Thrive would impact the viability of our liquidity plan and our ability to continue as a going concern.. Our strategy to sell a portion of one of our subsidiaries may not be successful.. In order for us to transition our operations to a fabless business model, we must establish partnering arrangements with our strategic partner. One of these partnering arrangements may involve selling a portion of one of our subsidiaries in which the non-controlling interest in our financial statements may increase. The success of this strategy is, however, subject to a number of factors over which we have little or no control, such as the approval of the strategic partner's investment committee. As such, the acquisition process may take a number of months. 7. Table of Contents. before we can commence implementation. In addition, non-controlling ownership, if significant, carries numerous risks, including dependence on the partner to facilitate the acquisition of any necessary licenses and permits, as well as our ability to direct the subsidiaries policies and strategies. Our strategic partner may have different business methods which we may be unfamiliar with and may not be able to implement our business model in new areas as efficiently and quickly as we have been able to do. Such an impairment of full control may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. We have also sold certain patents, generally for technology that we are not actively developing. While we plan to continue to monetize our patent portfolio through sales of non-core patents, we may not be able to realize adequate interest or prices for those patents. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to generate revenue from these sales.. We have incurred net losses in recent periods and may require additional financing. If financing is not available, we may be required to further downsize or discontinue operations.. We incurred net losses attributable to SemiLEDs stockholders of $4.1 million and $21.3 million for the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We can give no assurance that we will not incur net losses in future periods. Our revenue and operating results may continue to decline for a variety of reasons, some of which are described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section and are beyond our control. As of August 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $171.3 million. Further, at August 31, 2017, our cash and cash equivalents was down to $3.6 million. These facts and conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph regarding going concern qualification in its audit report. However, our management believes it has developed a liquidity plan, as further described in elsewhere in this annual report that if executed successfully should provide sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations as they become due for a reasonable period of time. While we believe that these liquidity plan measures will be adequate to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the twelve months ending August 31, 2018, there is no assurance that the liquidity plan will be successfully implemented. Failure to successfully implement the liquidity plan may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position, and may adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. If we do not become consistently profitable, our accumulated deficit will grow larger and our cash balances will decline further, and we will require additional financing to continue operations. Any such financing may not be accessible on acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot generate sufficient cash or obtain additional financing, we may be required to downsize our business further or discontinue our operations altogether.. We depend on contract manufacturing for portions of our supply chain. The inability of our contract manufacturers to produce products that satisfy our requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business.. From time to time, we may use contract manufacturers to produce products or some parts of our products. For example, we are moving toward a fabless business model in which we would utilize foundry fabs to ODM our chips using our developed technology for outsourcing the manufacturing of our vertical chips. Our reliance on such contract manufacturers exposes us to a number of significant risks, including:. •  reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs;. •  lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply; and. •  the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the contract manufacturers because of factors beyond our control.. If these contract manufacturers fail to deliver products on time and at a satisfactory level of quality, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders and our net revenues could decline. If our contract manufacturers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture our products at requested quality, quantity, yields and costs, or in a timely manner, our business and reputation could be seriously harmed. For example, only recently completed the qualification for the chip products manufactured by the ODM partner using their facilities. The delay in delivering products on time at a satisfactory level of quality has resulted in difficulties fulfilling our customer orders. As a consequence, our revenues attributable to the sales of our LED chips declined. Our business and reputation could be seriously harmed if the challenges relating to the delay in the transition toward the fabless business model are not resolved soon. As a result, we would have to attempt to identify and qualify substitute manufacturers, which could be time consuming and difficult, and might result in unforeseen manufacturing and operations problems. In such events, our customer relationships, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our success depends on the successful development, introduction, commercialization and acceptance of new generations of products and enhancements to existing product lines.. Rapid change and technical innovation characterize the LED chips and components market. Our success depends on the successful development, introduction, commercialization and acceptance of new generations of products and enhancements to existing product lines. We have made and continue to make significant investments in growth initiatives. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, our new module product successfully moved from sampling stage to mass production and began shipment to customers. We expect to continue our efforts at further research and development of innovative products. We may need to spend more time and money than we expect or have to. 8. Table of Contents. develop and introduce new products or enhancements and, even if we succeed, they may not be sufficiently profitable for us to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. In addition, our new products or enhancements may need certifications or require qualifications by our customers or potential customers. However, both of the certification and qualification processes are lengthy and uncertain and may negatively impact our sales and marketing efforts to sell or transition our customers to such new products or enhancements. Furthermore, once introduced, new products may adversely impact sales of our older generation products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, and could adversely impact our revenues and operating results.. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, are affected by our ability to (i)properly identify customer needs, (ii)prove the feasibility of new products, (iii)price our products competitively and profitably, (iv)accurately predict and control costs and yields associated with manufacturing the products, (v)manufacture and deliver new products timely and in sufficient volume, (vi)assist the customers in qualifying or adopting the new products in a timely manner and (vii)anticipate and compete successfully with competitors. Even if we are successful, if a customer requires certain certifications for or new qualification process of our new products, the time when that customer will actually purchase our products and we will be able to receive revenue from that customer will be significantly delayed.. We may not be able to effectively develop, maintain and expand our sales and distribution channels, which could negatively affect our ability to expand our sales and business and damage our brand reputation.. As part of our strategy, we market and sell our products through third-party distributors in certain markets such as Taiwan, the United States and China (including Hong Kong). We rely on these distributors to service end-customers, and our failure to maintain strong working relationships with such distributors could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and revenues from such jurisdictions and damage our brand reputation. If we are unable to effectively develop and expand our distribution channels, or do so in a timely manner, to ensure our products are reaching the appropriate customer base, our sales and results of operations may be adversely impacted. In addition, if we successfully develop these channels, we cannot guarantee that customers will accept our products or that we will be able to manufacture and deliver products in the timeline established by our customers. We have attempted to direct our efforts to areas of business where we see the best opportunity for the most profitable sales of our LED products, which includes primarily a focus on the UV LED market segment and placing a greater emphasis on the sale of LED components in selected markets where pricing pressure is significant, and pursuing new market opportunities that leverage our core competencies. We are now focused on developing as an end-to-end LED module solution supplier by providing our customers with high quality, flexible and more complete LED system solution, customer technical support and LED module/system design, as opposed to just providing customers with individual components. Continual introductions of new products and solutions, services, and enhancement of existing products and services, and effective servicing of customers are key to our competitive strategy. We also work to develop relationships with a select number of our customers to develop relationships which would continue to enhance our component product growth and profitability to complement our strategic focus. Our primary business objective is to provide our customers with a convenient, full-service, one-stop shopping solution for their needs by offering customized design services and high-quality products at good value. These strategies may negatively impact our revenues as we may not be able to develop and expand our customer base and distribution channels in a timely manner, among other reasons.. We do not control the activities of our distributors with respect to the marketing and sales of and customer service support for our products. Therefore, the reputation and performance of our distributors and the ability and willingness of our distributors to sell our products, uphold our brand reputation for quality, by providing, for example, high quality service and pre- and post-sales support, and their ability to expand their businesses and their sales channels are essential to the future growth of our business and has a direct and material impact on our sales and profitability in such jurisdictions. Also, as with our individual customers, we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our distributor customers, and they can therefore generally cancel, modify or reduce orders with little or no advance notice to us. As a result, any reductions or delays in, or cancellations of, orders from any of our distributors may have a negative impact on our sales and budgeting process.. In addition, we have entered and may from time to time enter into exclusivity or other restrictions or arrangements of a similar nature as part of our agreements with our distributors. Such restrictions or arrangements may significantly hinder our ability to sell additional products, or enter into agreements with new or existing customers or distributors that plan to sell our products, in certain markets, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, we may not be able to compete successfully against those of our competitors who have greater financial resources and are able to provide better incentives to distributors, which may result in reduced sales of our products or the loss of our distributors. The loss of any key distributor may force us to seek replacement distributors, and any resulting delay may be disruptive and costly.. We operate in highly competitive markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes and declining average selling prices. Competitive pressures from existing and new companies and/or damage to our brand may harm our business and operating results.. Competition in the markets for LED products is intense, and we expect that competition will continue to increase. Increased competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Competitors may reduce. 9. Table of Contents. average selling prices faster than our ability to reduce costs, and competitive pricing pressures may accelerate the rate of decline of our average selling prices. To address increased pricing pressure, we have improved and increased our production yields to reduce the per-unit cost of production for our products. However, such cost savings currently have a limited impact on our gross profit, as we have suffered from the underutilization of manufacturing capacity and must absorb a high level of fixed costs, such as depreciation.. We compete with many LED chip manufacturers and LED packaging manufacturers. With respect to our LED chips and LED components, we primarily compete with Cree, SVC, Everlight, LiteOn, LED Engin, Nichia, Philips (Lumileds), Osram-OS GmbH and Edison. We have a number of competitors that compete directly with us and are much larger than us, including, among others, Cree, Nichia, Philips (Lumileds) and Osram-OS GmbH. Several substantially larger companies, such as Philips (Lumileds) and Osram-OS GmbH, compete against us with a relatively small segment of their overall business. In addition, several large and well-capitalized semiconductor companies, such as Samsung and LG Innotek, have entered into the LED chip and UV market. These potential competitors have extensive experience in developing semiconductor chips, which is similar to the manufacturing process for LED chips and LED packaging. We are also aware of a number of well-funded private companies that are developing competing products. We will also compete with numerous smaller companies entering the market, some of whom may receive significant government incentives and subsidies pursuant to government programs designed to encourage the use of LED lighting and to establish LED-sector companies. For example, the Chinese government subsidizes equipment costs, which enables manufacturers in China to remain price competitive and make it very difficult for foreign companies to compete.. In the lighting market, we face competition from fixtures and bulbs manufactured and marketed by other LED lighting fixture companies and from lighting products incorporating incandescent, fluorescent, halogen, ceramic metal halide or other lighting technology. In addition to lighting companies such as Cree, Philips (Lumileds) and Osram-OS GmbH, which are substantially larger and more established than us, we also compete with numerous smaller companies that have traditionally been in the lighting industry or recently entered into the LED lighting market.. Our existing and potential competitors may have a number of significant advantages over us, including greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing, distribution and other resources, more long-standing and established relationships with our existing and potential customers, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater government incentives and support. In addition, some of our competitors have been in operation much longer than we have and therefore may have more long-standing and established relationships with our current and potential customers.. We compete primarily on the basis of our products' performance, price, quality, and reliability and on our ability to customize products to meet customer needs. However, our competitors may be able to develop more competitive products, respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, offer comparable products at more competitive prices or bring new products to the market earlier. Any failure to respond to increased competition in a timely or cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, intellectual property claims against us, including pending claims and litigation, regardless of the outcome, could be used by our competitors to damage our brand reputation and our relationships with existing and potential customers.. We derive our revenues mainly from the sales of our LED components. Our inability to grow our revenues generated from the sales of LED components would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operation.. LED components are the core products from which we derive our revenues. Revenues attributable to the sales of our LED components represented 73% and 76% of our revenues for the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Although revenues attributable to the sale of LED lighting products accounted for more than 5% of our revenues for both the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, we expect to continue to generate our revenues mainly from the sales of LED components for the foreseeable future. As such, the continued market acceptance of our LED components is critical to our continued success. Our inability to grow our revenues generated from the sales of LED components would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The market for LEDs has historically been, and we expect will continue to be, highly volatile, which could harm our business and result in significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock.. Fluctuations in supply and demand for LEDs pose serious risks to our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry, akin to the semiconductor industry, is highly cyclical and characterized by rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence, declining average selling prices and wide fluctuations in supply and demand. Our industry's cyclicality results from a complex set of factors, including, but not limited to:. •  fluctuations in demand for end-products that incorporate LED chips and LED components;. •  ongoing reductions in the number of LED chips and LED components required per application due to performance improvements; and. •  fluctuations in the unutilized manufacturing capacity available to produce LED chips and LED components.. 10. Table of Contents. If market demand increases and we are not able to increase our capacity or if we experience delays or unforeseen costs in increasing our capacity levels, we may not be able to achieve our financial targets. Alternatively, as market demand decreases or as market supply surpasses demand, we may not be able to reduce manufacturing expenses or overhead costs proportionately. If an increase in supply outpaces the increase in market demand, or if demand decreases, the resulting oversupply could adversely impact our sales and result in the underutilization of manufacturing capacity, high inventory levels, changes in revenue mix and rapid price erosion, which would lower our margins and adversely impact our financial results. For example, over the past few years, we recorded significant excess capacity charges as we suffered from underutilization of our manufacturing capacity as a result of a decrease in customer demand, and significant write-downs of inventories as a result of a decline in their average selling prices. We may experience similar problems in the future, and we cannot predict when they may occur or the severity of such difficulties and the impact on our margins and operating results.. Our restructuring plan and ongoing cost and capital expenditure reduction efforts may not be effective, might have unintended consequences, and could negatively impact our business.. We have implemented certain actions to accelerate operating cost reductions and improve operational efficiencies in response to changes in the economic environment, our industry and demand. In connection with the implementation of our cost and capital expenditure reduction programs, we developed a strategic plan to address areas of business where we see the best opportunity for the most profitable sales of our LED products, which includes primarily a focus on the UV LED market segment and placing a greater emphasis on the sale of LED components in selected markets where pricing pressure is less significant, and pursuing new market opportunities that leverage our core competencies. We continue to monitor prices and, consistent with our existing contractual commitments, may decrease our activity level and capital expenditures further. This plan reflects our strategy of controlling capital costs and maintaining financial flexibility. We also disposed of a certain level of our idle equipment to reduce the excess capacity charges that we have suffered for a few years. In addition, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet our obligations as they become due for a reasonable period of time, we reduced our capital expenditures as appropriate. The cost reduction plan is further enhanced through the fabless business model in which we implemented certain workforce reductions and have sold certain patents that we were no longer actively developing and are exploring the opportunities to consign or sell certain equipment related to the manufacturing of vertical LED chips to our ODM partner or others, in order to reduce the idle capacity charges, minimize our research and development activities associated with chips manufacturing operation.. Despite our planning, some cost-cutting and capital expenditure reduction measures could have unexpected negative consequences. As part of our ongoing cost reduction efforts, we may reduce our work force further and experience additional attrition, which may expose us to legal claims against us and loss of necessary human resources. If we face costly employee or contract termination claims, our operations and prospects could be harmed. Furthermore, capital expenditure reduction could adversely impact our future sales. In addition, the consignment negotiation has not materialized, which indicated that the carrying amount of the equipment was not recoverable at the time we performed the impairment assessment. As a result, significant impairment charges for our equipment were recognized during fiscal 2016. While our cost and capital expenditure reduction efforts reduced, or are expected to reduce, our operating costs as well as capital expenditure, we cannot be certain that all efforts will be successful or that we will not be required to implement additional actions to structure our business to operate in a cost-effective manner in the future. Currently, both our ODM partner and SemiLEDs are required to make significant commitments of resources to the extensive qualification process with chips before the ODM partner is able to ODM vertical chips for us using our vertical technology. However, qualifications of the numerous products have caused and could continue to cause delays sufficient to have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could make our future performance difficult to predict and could cause our operating results for a particular period to fall below expectations, resulting in a severe decline in the price of our common stock.. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We have experienced seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in the past. As such, our past quarterly operating results may not be good indicators of future performance.. The following factors could cause our operating results to fluctuate:. •  our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and successfully enter new geographic markets;. •  changes in supply and demand and other competitive market conditions, including pricing actions by our competitors and our customers' competitors;. •  timing of orders from and shipments to major customers and end-customers, including as part of LED project-based orders, and our ability to forecast demand and manage lead times for the manufacturing of our products; and. •  seasonal fluctuations in our customers' purchasing patterns.. For these or other reasons, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance, and our actual revenue and operating results in future quarters may fall short of the expectations of investors and financial analysts, which could have a severe adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. 11. Table of Contents. If we are unable to implement our product innovation strategy effectively, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to be innovative in product design, to deliver new products and improve our manufacturing efficiencies. In particular, as the LED industry develops and technical specifications and market standards change, we must continue to innovate and develop competitive products that are accepted by the marketplace. Our existing or potential customers could develop, or acquire companies that develop, products or technologies that may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new, technologically advanced and lower cost products, such as high quality, flexible and more complete LED system solution. If we are unable to achieve technological breakthroughs, introduce new products that are commercially viable and meet rapidly evolving customer requirements, and keep pace with evolving technological standards and market development, we may experience reduced market share and our ability to compete may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to execute our product innovation strategy effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities as they arise, execute our business plan or respond to competition.. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Trademark, patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights are critical to our business and the business of our competitors. Our industry is characterized by frequent intellectual property litigation involving patents, trade secrets, copyrights, and mask designs among others. Competitors of ours and other third parties have in the past and will likely from time to time in the future allege that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights.. Litigation to determine the validity and scope of any claim against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights can be highly uncertain because of the complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analyses involved. Defending against any intellectual property infringement claims would likely result in costly litigation, diversion of the attention and efforts of our technical and management personnel and ultimately may lead to our not being able to manufacture, use or sell products found to be infringing. As a result of any such dispute, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, pay substantial damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements to use third-party technology, cease selling certain products, adjust our marketing and advertising activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. For example, although we and Cree executed a settlement agreement providing for dismissal of our amended complaints against each other without prejudice, we agreed to the entry of a permanent injunction that was effective October 1, 2012 that precludes us from (and/or from assisting others in) making, using, importing, selling and/or offering to sell in the United States certain accused products and/or any device that includes such an accused product after that date and to payment of a settlement fee for past damages.. The intellectual property rights related to packaging LEDs with phosphors to make white light LED components are particularly complex and characterized by aggressive enforcement of those rights. Many of our competitors and other third parties hold patents or licenses or cross-licenses that relate to phosphors and the use of phosphors in LED packages to make white light LED components. We have sought to minimize the risk that one of our competitors or another third party will assert a claim related to our packaged LED components by marketing these products only in certain countries in which we believe enforcement of intellectual property rights has historically been more limited. We cannot assure you that our belief with respect to the enforcement of rights within those markets is accurate. In addition, if the products we sell in a particular country are subsequently shipped or resold to another country, the intellectual property laws of the country of final destination may also apply to our products. Further, we may be subject to claims if our packaging customers for our LED chips lack sufficient intellectual property rights with respect to their packaging process and related packaging materials. We cannot assure you that our competitors or others will not claim that our LED chips or our LED components infringe their intellectual property rights or that, if such claims are made, we will be able to successfully dispute such claims.. Intellectual property claims against us, or our customers, including our distributor customers, could subject us to significant costs and materially damage our business and reputation.. From time to time, third parties may assert infringement claims against us, or our customers with respect to our products, or our customers' products that incorporate our technologies or products, and any such legal action or the threat of legal action against us, or our customers, could impair such customers' continued demand for our products. For example, in 2008, Nichia filed a lawsuit in Japan against a Japanese subsidiary of Seoul Semiconductor Co., Ltd., or Seoul Semiconductor, which is one of our customers, and another lawsuit in Korea against Seoul Semiconductor. In those two lawsuits, Nichia asserted that our LED chips infringed two patents in Japan and one in Korea. While we were not named as a defendant in either of those lawsuits, we intervened as independent or supplementary parties. Although the Japanese lawsuit was settled, it is still possible for Nichia to file a new lawsuit on the two patents originally at issue in the action in Japan. In addition, although the Korean district court found the patent at issue to be invalid, Nichia's subsequent appeal and Seoul Semiconductor's related. 12. Table of Contents. invalidation action were both withdrawn after the parties entered into a cross-licensing agreement. As such, the invalidity finding by the district court was vacated.. Furthermore, we agree to defend and indemnify our customers in the event that they are sued by third parties for intellectual property infringement claims involving the sale or use of our products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending these claims. Our indemnification obligations could increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in any such action.. If LEDs fail to achieve widespread adoption in the general lighting market, or if alternative technologies gain market acceptance, our prospects will be materially and adversely impacted and we may be unable to achieve and maintain our profitability.. A significant portion of our LED chips and LED components are sold for use in LED general lighting applications and our lighting products are also oriented to this market. Our financial condition, results of operations and prospects substantially depend on increased market acceptance of LEDs in general lighting globally, and in particular in Asia. Although LED lighting has grown rapidly in recent years, adoption of LEDs for general lighting has only recently begun, is still limited and faces significant challenges. In addition, the demand for medium power multiple LEDs chips increased for general lighting applications, instead of higher power single chip, which is the specialty of SemiLEDs.. If LED lighting does not achieve widespread acceptance and adoption, or if demand for LED products does not grow as we anticipate, our revenues may decline and our prospects for growth and profitability will be limited. Moreover, if existing sources of light other than LED devices, such as organic light emitting diodes (OLEDs), achieve adoption, or if new sources of light are developed, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete.. Potential customers for LED general lighting systems may not adopt LED lighting as an alternative to traditional lighting technology because of LEDs' higher upfront cost. In addition, manufacturers of general lighting systems may have substantial investments and know-how related to their existing lighting technologies, such as traditional incandescent, fluorescent, halogen and high intensity discharge, or HID, lighting devices, and may perceive risks relating to the complexity, reliability, quality, usefulness and cost-effectiveness of LED products. Even if LED lighting continues to achieve performance improvements and cost reductions, limited customer awareness of the benefits of LEDs, lack of widely accepted standards governing LED lighting and customer unwillingness to adopt LEDs in favor of entrenched solutions could significantly limit the demand for LED products. Additional factors that may limit the adoption of LEDs for general lighting include, among others:. •  a significant reduction in or discontinuation of government regulations and economic incentives to promote the development of the LED industry or government regulations that discourage the use of some traditional lighting technologies;. •  changes in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of some traditional lighting technologies, for example declining energy prices that favor existing lighting technologies; and. •  capital expenditures for new and replacement lighting systems by end-users of LED products, which may decline during economic downturns.. Our gross margins could fluctuate as a result of changes in our product mix, decreases in the average selling prices of our products, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, and other factors, which may adversely impact our operating results.. Our gross margins have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate from period to period as a result of the mix of products that we sell and the utilization of our manufacturing capacity in any given period, among other things. For example, as a strategic plan, we placed greater emphasis on the sales of LED components rather than the sales of LED chips where we have been forced to cut prices on older inventory. The sales of our UV LED embedded components product have successfully improved our gross margin, operating results and cash flows in fiscal 2017. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities for profitable growth in areas of business where we see the best opportunity for our UV market, focus on product enhancement and developing our UV LED into many other applications or devices. However, as we expand and diversify our product offerings and with varying average selling prices, or execute new business initiatives, a change in the mix of products that we sell in any given period may increase volatility in our revenues and gross margin from period to period.. Increased competition and the adoption of alternatives to our products, more complex engineering requirements, lower demand, over-capacity in the market and other factors has led to price erosion and, as a result, lower product margins and lower revenues. For example, some of our competitors have in the past reduced their average selling prices, and the resulting competitive pricing pressures have caused us to similarly reduce our prices, accelerating the decline in the gross margin of our products. We anticipate our competitors will continue to implement such competitive strategies from time to time in the future. Our introduction of new LED component products, such as the LED components that incorporate EV or UV LED chips may further reduce the selling prices of our older generation products or render them obsolete.. 13. Table of Contents. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers for certain key raw materials and equipment. The loss of key suppliers may have a material adverse effect on our business.. There are a limited number of companies which supply certain of the specialized raw materials that are important to the manufacture of our products as well as a very limited number of manufacturers of equipment that are critical to our operations. We generally enter into spot purchase orders with our suppliers and do not have long-term or guaranteed supply arrangements with any of them. For example, we purchase Red or IR LED chips, the key material used in the manufacture of our LED components, from a limited number of suppliers. A major shortage of these key raw materials would impair our ability to meet our production needs resulting in increased costs.. We also purchase gases, photo chemicals and other materials from various suppliers on the spot market. Although supply constraints do not currently have an impact on our ability to procure supply, supply constraints have occurred in the past and may occur again from time to time in the future. Additionally, we use metals such as copper alloy and other commodities in our manufacturing process. The price volatility of such materials may make our procurement planning challenging. If the prices of materials increase it may adversely affect our operating margins. Although these materials are generally available and are not considered to be specialty chemicals, our inability to procure such materials in volumes and at commercially reasonable prices could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If any of our key raw material suppliers fails to meet our needs on time or at all, we may not be able to procure replacement supplies from other sources on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and our production may be delayed or interrupted, which could impair our ability to meet our customers' needs and damage our customer relationships.. Disclosure requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act relating to \"conflict minerals\" could increase our costs and limit the supply of certain metals used in our products and affect our reputation with customers and shareholders.. As required under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, as amended, or the Dodd-Frank Act, in August 2012 the SEC promulgated final rules regarding annual disclosures by public companies of their use of certain minerals and metals, known as \"conflict minerals,\" which are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or the DRC, and adjoining countries, and their efforts in to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals from these countries. These conflict minerals are commonly referred to as \"3TG\" and include tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold. These rules require us to ascertain and disclose the origin of some of the raw materials that we use, including gold, annually no later than May 31 of each year. We expect to incur costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including due diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to our products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such due diligence activities. The implementation of these rules and our compliance procedures could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of conflict minerals from such suppliers or at competitive prices. Also, our reputation with our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders could be damaged if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. If we cannot guarantee that all of our products exclude conflict minerals sourced from the DRC or adjoining countries, certain of our customers may discontinue, or materially reduce, purchases of our products, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We have a limited operating history which makes it difficult for you to evaluate our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and which impairs our ability to accurately forecast our future performance.. We were incorporated in January 2005 and our first sales of LED chips occurred in November 2005. In the past, we have experienced revenue declines and incurred significant net losses. For the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, we incurred significant net losses attributable to SemiLEDs stockholders of $4.1 million and $21.3 million, respectively. Our limited operating history, combined with the rapidly evolving nature of the LED industry in which we compete, may not provide an adequate basis for you to evaluate our operating and financial results and business prospects. In addition, we only have limited insight into emerging trends that may adversely affect our business, prospects and our operating results. As such, our limited operating history may impair our ability to accurately forecast our future performance.. We may not be able to effectively expand our production capacity or upgrade our production facilities or do so in a timely or cost-effective manner, which could prevent us from growing our sales, margins and market share.. While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses in the short term, over the long term we expect to be required to invest substantially if we are to grow. This will mean having to continually expand our production capacity or upgrade our production facilities as we deem appropriate under future market conditions and future customer demand. Such investment could take time to become fully operational, and could otherwise increase our costs, and we may not be able to execute quickly to take advantage of market opportunities as they arise.. 14. Table of Contents. Upgrading or expanding existing facilities could result in manufacturing problems that may reduce our yields and utilization rates below our target levels. For example, we have experienced difficulties in the past in achieving acceptable yields when we moved our manufacturing facilities to a new location and when we introduced new products or new manufacturing processes, which has adversely affected our operating results.. Upgrading or expanding production facilities or capacity requires a significant amount of fixed cost since it requires us to add and purchase manufacturing lines, equipment and additional raw materials and other supplies. If we are not able to recoup these costs through increased sales and profits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We may have difficulty managing our future growth and the associated changes to our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We had experienced a period of significant growth prior to the recent changes to the market and our business that resulted in net losses for the past few years. However, we intend to continue to upgrade our business and operations in Taiwan, as appropriate, including a focus on the introduction of new products and improving our production yields, with a view to positioning us to capture future growth of the market and our business.. Our future expansion plans may place a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, technological and financial resources. In order to manage our growth, we must continue to hire, recruit and manage our workforce effectively as well as implement adequate controls and reporting systems and procedures in a timely manner. If we fail to manage our growth, we may encounter, among other things, delays in production and operational difficulties. Moreover, any additional capital investments would increase our overall costs.. In order to effectively support our growth, we must also continue to:. •  maintain adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment;. •  secure and maintain sufficient and stable supplies of raw material;. •  continue to expand our research and development, sales and marketing, technological and distribution capabilities;. •  enhance the skills and capabilities of our key personnel and hire additional experienced senior level managers and technical personnel; and. •  attract and retain qualified employees.. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth and the associated changes to our operations, our financial results, financial condition, business or prospects could be harmed significantly.. Sales of our products are concentrated in a few select markets. Adverse developments in these markets could have a material and disproportionate impact on us.. Our revenues are highly concentrated in a few select markets, including Taiwan, the United States and China (including Hong Kong). Net revenues generated from sales to customers in Taiwan, the United States and China, in the aggregate, accounted for 71% and 79% of the Company's net revenues for the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. As a result of the concentration of our revenues in these markets, economic downturns, changes in governmental policies and increased competition in these markets could have a material and disproportionate impact on our revenues, operating results, business and prospects. For example, the aggressive support by the Chinese government for the LED industry through significant government incentives and subsidies to encourage the use of LED lighting and to establish the LED-sector companies has resulted in production overcapacity in the market and intense competition. Any unfavorable economic or market conditions in such jurisdictions could have a negative impact on our sales and profitability.. Variations in our production yields and limitations in the amount of process improvements we can implement could impact our ability to reduce costs and could cause our margins to decline and our operating results could suffer.. Our products are manufactured using technologies that are highly complex. The number of saleable products, or yield, from our production processes may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including but not limited to the following:. •  variability in our process repeatability and control;. •  contamination of the manufacturing environment;. •  equipment failure, variations in the manufacturing process, or power outages;. •  lack of consistency and adequate quality and quantity of components and raw materials;. 15. Table of Contents. •  losses from broken wafers, inventory damage or human errors;. •  defects in packaging either within our facilities or at our subcontractors; and. •  any transitions or changes in our production process, planned or unplanned.. Introduction of new products and manufacturing processes are often characterized by lower yields in the initial commercialization stage. LED chip and component manufacturing is complicated and consists of many layers of complex materials that must interact with each other. In addition, when we introduce new products and processes we often use new chemical solutions and chemical compounds with which we have less experience. We must analyze how the various solutions, compounds and layers of materials interact with each other and perform as parts of the LED chip structure. It takes time for us to analyze the data from our initial manufacturing runs and optimize our processes, and over time we generally achieve higher yield rates as we gain more experience with the product or processes. We have continuously improved and increased our production yields to reduce the per-unit cost of production for our new LED components that incorporate EV or UV LED chips; however, such cost savings currently have limited impact on our gross profit, as we currently suffer from the underutilization of manufacturing capacity and must absorb a high level of fixed costs, such as depreciation. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in achieving acceptable yields when introducing new products or new manufacturing processes, which has adversely affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future, and we cannot predict when they may occur or the severity of such difficulties and the impact on our business.. In some instances, we may offer products for future delivery at prices based on planned yield improvements or increased cost efficiencies from other production advances. Failure to achieve these planned improvements or advances could significantly affect our margins and operating results.. We may face challenges further expanding our LED components business. In addition, our strategy of marketing our LED components in jurisdictions with limited intellectual property enforcement regimes may limit the markets where we can sell our LED components and may subject our intellectual property rights to infringement.. We face challenges in further expanding our LED components business, which has been our core product now and onward, because it involves processes and technologies that are significantly different from our manufacturing processes for LED chips. For example, we are developing advanced-level LED component manufacturing techniques, such as processes that allow us to manufacture wafer-level packaging. If we are not able to further develop our LED components business or if competitors create or adopt more advanced packaging technologies than ours, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our distribution strategy limits the sales of our LED components as we are selling only in countries that may not necessarily have the highest demand or market potential. The intellectual property rights related to LED components are particularly complex and characterized by aggressive enforcement of those rights. To minimize the likelihood that one of our competitors or another third party will assert a claim related to our LED components, we have sought to market these products only in countries in which we believe enforcement of intellectual property rights has historically been more limited as identified below and to ensure the new line of LED products are not subject to any effective injunction in the United States, because we believe that it is important for us to consciously manage our exposure to litigation. Any such litigation, whether with or without merit, could divert our management, financial and other resources away from our business and thereby have a negative impact on our continued development and growth. We do not currently sell our LED components in all countries that meet, what we believe to be, an acceptable litigation risk profile. We review profiles of different countries and may determine from time to time that we should sell our products in one or more additional countries that meet our litigation risk profile for sale of our LED components. However, we may not be able to identify additional countries that we find to be suitable markets for these products. We have considered the potential loss of revenues and income that we may suffer as a result of our strategy to sell only in certain select countries and have concluded that, on balance, the potential loss of such revenues and income is not outweighed by the potential litigation risks. Also, there can be no guarantee that, by selling our LED components in these countries, we have not exposed our intellectual property rights, including our patents, to infringement by others. With respect to any potential infringement of our patents and other intellectual property rights by others in countries where we currently sell our LED components, we have considered the potential loss of revenues and income that we may suffer associated with such sales and have made a business judgment that the benefits outweigh any potential loss. In addition, if the countries in which we currently sell our LED components increase their enforcement of intellectual property rights, the risk of litigation would materially increase and our ability to continue to sell our LED components in these markets may be materially and adversely affected. Sales of our LED components and our other products may also be limited in the event that they are subsequently shipped or otherwise resold in a country and a claim is brought against us or our customer pursuant to the intellectual property laws of the country of final destination.. As we continue to operate in the lighting fixtures market, we may face additional competition and our existing customers may reduce orders.. As we continue to operate in the lighting fixtures market and seek to increase our sales of lighting products in the future, we may face competition from fixtures and bulbs manufactured and marketed by other LED lighting fixture companies and from lighting products incorporating incandescent, fluorescent, halogen, ceramic metal halide or other lighting technology. In addition, many of our existing customers who purchase our LED chips and LED components develop and manufacture lighting fixtures using those chips and components. As. 16. Table of Contents. we continue to operate in that market, our customers may respond by reducing or discontinuing their orders for our products. This could prevent us from growing or even maintaining our revenues from the sale of LED chips and LED components, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As with our LED components, to minimize the likelihood that one of our lighting fixture competitors or another third party will assert an intellectual property right related to our lighting fixtures, we have sought to market these products only in countries in which we believe enforcement of intellectual property rights has been more limited. Our sales of lighting products to customers in the United States decreased significantly in recent years. This distribution strategy may limit our sales to countries that do not have the highest demand or market potential, and raise similar issues and risks to those raised with respect to our use of this strategy in connection with marketing our LED components.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, including distributor customers, and generally do not enter into long-term customer contracts. The loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, one or more of these customers, or the failure by one of these customers to pay, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We have historically derived a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers, including distributor customers. For the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, our top ten customers collectively accounted for 69% and 60%, respectively, of our revenues. Some of our largest customers and what we produce/have produced for them have changed from quarter to quarter primarily as a result of the timing of discrete, large project-based purchases and broadening customer base, among other things. For the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, sales to our three largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 49% and 39% of our revenues, respectively.. The sales cycle from initial contact to confirmed orders with our customers is typically long and unpredictable. We typically enter into individual purchase orders with large customers, which can be altered, reduced or cancelled with little or no notice to us. We do not generally enter into long-term commitment contracts with our customers. As such, these customers may alter their purchasing behavior and reduce or cancel orders with little or no notice to us. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues:. •  reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our major customers;. •  loss of one or more of our major customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and. •  failure of any of our major customers to make timely payment for our products.. We rely on certain key personnel. The loss of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could harm our business.. Our future success depends on the continued service and performance of our key personnel, including in particular Trung T. Doan, our chief executive officer, and members of our executive team. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our officers or key employees.. If Mr. Doan or other key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily or on terms that are reasonable, if at all. As such, the loss of Mr. Doan or other key personnel, including other key members of our management team and certain of our key marketing, sales, product development or technology personnel, could significantly disrupt our operations and prevent the timely achievement of our development strategies and growth, which would likely have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and prospects. Moreover, we may lose some of our customers if any of our officers or key employees were to join a competitor or forma competing company. The loss of the services of our senior management for any reason could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense, and we may not be successful in recruiting, motivating or retaining sufficiently qualified personnel on terms that are reasonable, or at all. Cyclical volatility in our industry and in our business may aggravate this problem. For example, the challenges we faced in recent years relating to loss of market share and a sustained decrease in the market price of our common stock, among others, could impact our ability to attract and retain employees. When consumer demand for our products is reduced or delayed, we expect lower net revenue and reduced profitability. When our stock price declines, our equity incentive awards may lose retention value. In response to such downturns, we may further implement cost reduction actions, including spending controls, forced holidays and company shutdowns, employee layoffs, shortened work-weeks and involuntary salary reductions. Layoffs during an industry downturn could make it more difficult for us to retain key talent and staff members, or to rehire employees should business improve.. We are highly dependent on our customers' ability to produce and sell products incorporating our LED products. If our customers are not successful, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our customers incorporate our LED products into their products. As such, demand for our products is dependent on demand for our customers' end-products that incorporate our LED products and our customers' ability to sell these products. The general lighting market has. 17. Table of Contents. only recently begun to develop and adopt standards for fixtures that incorporate LED devices. If the end-customers for our products are unable to manufacture fixtures that meet these standards, our customers' sales, and consequently our sales, will suffer.. With respect to the sale of our LED components, a substantial portion of which is used in specialty industrial applications, such as UV curing of polymers, LED light therapy in medical/cosmetic applications, counterfeit detection, LED lighting for horticulture applications, and architectural lighting. A majority of our sales are to such end-customers in selected markets. Sales by end-customers of our products are generally dependent on their ability to develop high quality and highly efficient lighting products and require complex designs and processes, including thermal design, optical design and power conversion. We are making a transition to develop as an end-to-end LED module solution supplier by providing our customers with high quality, flexible and more complete LED system solution, customer technical support and LED module/system design, as opposed to just providing customers with individual components. Our customer's timely and successful product development, the success of our customers' new product introductions and market acceptance could be materially and adversely affected our operating results.. If our intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets, are not adequately protected to prevent misuse or misappropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the sale of certain patents increases our business risk.. Our future success and competitive position depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property, including proprietary technologies and trade secrets. In particular, we have developed advanced capabilities and proprietary know-how in sapphire reclamation, gallium nitride, or GaN, epitaxial growth, copper alloy technology, nanoscale surface engineering and vertical LED structure technology that are critical to our business. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, licensees, partner and third parties with whom we have relationships, and trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets.. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken or plan to take in the future are adequate to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets. We expect to continue to seek patent and trademark protection for our technologies and know-how. However, we will only be able to protect such technologies and know-how from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid, protectable and enforceable rights cover them. We cannot be certain that our patent and trademark applications will lead to patents being issued and registered trademarks being granted in a timely manner, or at all. Even if we are successful in obtaining such rights, the intellectual property laws of other countries in which our products are sold or may in the future be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, China currently is thought to afford less protection to intellectual property rights generally than some other jurisdictions. As such, the lack of strong patent and other intellectual property protection in China may significantly increase our vulnerability as regards unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property and undermine our competitive position. The legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in LED-related industries are uncertain and still evolving, both in the United States and in other countries. Moreover, the contractual agreements that we enter into with employees, licensees and third parties to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights afford only limited protection and may not been forceable.. We also expect that the more successful we are, the more likely it will be that competitors will try to develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products and services. In the event that our competitors or others are able to obtain knowledge of our know-how, trade secrets and technologies through independent development, our failure to protect such know-how, trade secrets and technologies and/or our other intellectual property and proprietary rights may undermine our competitive position. In addition, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and litigation may be necessary to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could be very costly and could divert management attention and resources away from our business, and the outcome of such litigation may not be in our favor. If the protection of our intellectual property, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets, is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our products and methods of operation. Any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, reputation and competitive position.. We have also sold certain patents, generally for technology that we are no longer actively developing. While we plan to continue to monetize our patent portfolio through sales of non-core patents, we may not be able to realize adequate interest or prices for those patents. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to generate revenue from these sales. In addition, although we seek to be strategic in our decisions to sell patents, we might incur reputational harm if a purchaser of our patents sues one of our customers for infringement of the purchased patent, and we might later decide to enter a space that requires the use of one or more of the patents we sold.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.. To protect a substantial amount of our technologies, we have chosen to rely primarily on trade secrets law rather than seeking protection through patents. Trade secrets are inherently difficult to protect. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, including our proprietary technologies and trade secrets, we rely in part on security measures, as well as confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees and other third parties. These measures and agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, including trade secrets,. 18. Table of Contents. and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. While we believe we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection if any unintentional or willful disclosure by our directors, employees, consultants or contractors of such information occurs, including disclosure by employees during or after the termination of their employment with us, in particular if they were to join one of our competitors. Laws regarding trade secret rights in certain markets in which we operate may afford little or no protection. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position.. The reduction or elimination of government investment in LED lighting or the elimination of, or changes in, policies in certain countries that encourage the use of LEDs over some traditional lighting technologies could cause demand for our products to decline, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, profits and margins.. We believe the near-term growth of the LED market will be driven in part by government policies in certain countries that either directly promote the use of LEDs or discourage the use of some traditional lighting technologies. Today, the upfront cost of LED lighting exceeds the upfront cost for some traditional lighting technologies that provide similar lumen output in many applications. However, for environmental reasons, among others, some governments around the world have used policy initiatives to accelerate the development and adoption of LED lighting and other non-traditional lighting technologies that are seen as more environmentally-friendly compared to some traditional lighting technologies. Reductions in, or eliminations of, government investment and favorable energy policies could result in decreased demand for our products and decrease our revenues, profits, margins and prospects.. We may be exposed to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In the ordinary course of our business, we may be exposed to general commercial claims related to the conduct of our business, class action lawsuits, employment claims and other litigation claims. For example, in July 2013, we, and certain of our current and former officers and directors, were the subjects of a number of purported class action lawsuits and derivative lawsuits. These cases were closed and dismissed without prejudice in February 2014. Any such litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in significant costs. In addition, members of our senior management may be required to divert significant attention and resources to these matters, reducing the time, attention and resources they have available to devote to managing our business. These additional expenses and diversion of attention and resources, along with any reputational issues raised by these lawsuits, may have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse findings from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, significant expenses to remediate any internal control deficiencies and ultimately have an adverse effect on our share price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include a management report that assesses the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K. Our testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, which we will be required to disclose. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expenses and expend significant management resources and time on compliance related issues. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory agencies such as the SEC. In addition, failure to meet the requirements of Section 404 or to disclose any material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and the trading price of our common stock may decline. Moreover, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, and our stated results of operations and reputation may be materially and adversely affected.. We have incurred and continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance efforts.. As a public company, we have incurred and continue to incur significant legal, accounting, investor relations and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, impose additional requirements on public companies, including enhanced corporate governance practices. For example, the listing requirements for NASDAQ provide that listed companies must satisfy, among other things, certain corporate governance requirements relating to independent directors, audit committees, distribution of annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, stockholder approvals, solicitation of proxies, conflicts of interest, stockholder voting rights and codes of business conduct. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to satisfy these compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time consuming and costly.. 19. Table of Contents. Impairment of our goodwill, long-lived assets, cost-method investments could reduce our earnings.. As part of our business strategy, we have and may continue to pursue acquisitions of businesses and assets, strategic alliances and joint ventures. Goodwill is recorded when the purchase price of a business exceeds the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets. U.S. GAAP requires us to test goodwill on an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur indicating that goodwill might be impaired. Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite useful lives, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount might not be recoverable.. In addition, some of our investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, which we record our proportionate share of their net income or loss, or using the cost method. However, they must also be tested for impairment. For the investments we account for under the equity method or the cost method, the impairment test considers whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. If we determine that impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate non-cash charge to earnings, which could adversely impact our operating results. During fiscal 2016, we experienced a significant reduction to our earnings as a result of impairment charges on our long-lived assets, and our investments accounted for under the cost method of accounting; see Note 3, \"Balance Sheet Components - Property, Plant and Equipment; and - Intangible Assets\" and Note 4, \"Investments in Unconsolidated Entities,\" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report for detailed information.. We may undertake joint ventures, investments, acquisitions, joint projects, and other strategic alliances and such undertakings, as well as our existing joint ventures, may be unsuccessful and may have an adverse effect on our business.. We have grown our business in part through strategic alliances and acquisitions. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including product, technology, business or asset transactions, such as acquisitions or divestitures. Such undertakings may not be successful or may take a substantially longer period than initially expected to become successful, and we may never recover our investments or achieve desired synergies or economies from these undertakings.. This notwithstanding, we may in the future continue to seek to grow our operations in part by entering into joint ventures, undertaking acquisitions or establishing other strategic alliances with third parties in the LED and LED-related industries. These activities involve challenges and risks in negotiation, execution, valuation and integration, and closing of the transactions could be delayed or prevented by regulatory approval requirements, including antitrust review, or other conditions.. Any future agreements that we may enter into also could expose us to new operational, regulatory, market, litigation and geographical risks as well as risks associated with significant capital requirements, the diversion of management and financial resources, unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, sharing of proprietary information, loss of control over day-to-day operations, non-performance by a counterparty and potential competition and conflicts of interest. In addition, we may not be successful in finding suitable targets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Even if successfully negotiated and closed, expected synergies from a joint venture, acquisition or other strategic alliance may not materialize or may not advance our business strategy, may fall short of expected return-on-investment targets or may not prove successful or effective for our business. We may also encounter difficulty integrating the operations, personnel and financial and operating systems of an acquired business into our current business.. We may need to raise additional debt funding or sell additional equity securities to enter into such joint ventures or make such acquisitions. However, we may not be able to obtain such debt funding or sell equity securities on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. The raising of additional debt funding by us, if required and available, would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in additional operating and financing covenants, or liens on our assets, that would restrict our operations. The sale of additional equity securities, if required and available, could result in dilution to our stockholders.. We are also exposed to liquidity risk in the event of non-performance by the counterparty to the convertible note in the purchase agreement.. Any undetected defects in our products may harm our sales and reputation and adversely affect our manufacturing yields.. The manufacture of LED chips and components is highly complex, requiring precise processes in a highly controlled and sterile environment using specialized equipment. We or our ODM partner manufacture our LED products to meet customer requirements with respect to quality, performance and reliability. Although we utilize quality control procedures at each stage of our manufacturing process, our products may still contain defects that are undetected until after they are shipped or inspected by our customers, or on operation of the device. For example, there could be sub-micron defects that would not be detected by our quality control procedures; such sub-micron defects may increase the current leakage in the device and could negatively affect the product performance over time. Unsatisfactory performance of or defects in our products may cause us to incur additional expenses, including costs in relation to product warranties, cancellation and rescheduling of orders and shipments, and product returns or recalls. Failure to detect and rectify defects in our products before delivery could subject us to product liability claims and harm our credibility and market reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. In addition, we do not currently have fully automated manufacturing processes, which could potentially introduce contaminants to the production processes through human error. Defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can prevent us and our ODM partner from achieving maximum capacity utilization, which is the actual number of wafers that we are able to produce in relation to our capacity, and also can prevent acceptable yields of quality LED chips from those wafers.. Global economic conditions could negatively impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The global financial crisis that began in late 2007 caused extreme disruption in the financial markets. Although the disruption in the financial markets moderated thereafter, the global financial markets continue to reflect uncertainty about a sustained economic recovery. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could result in slow economic activity, concerns about inflation and energy costs, decreased business and consumer confidence, reduced capital spending and adverse business conditions, as well as diminished liquidity and credit availability in many financial markets. In addition, these economic and business conditions could have led to reduced spending in our target markets and made it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Continued weak economic conditions and further adverse trends in general economic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit, inflation and taxation have in the past and may again in the future cause consumer spending to decline further, reduce demand for and prices of our products and our customers' products, affect the prices and availability of raw materials, limit our ability to obtain financing for our operations and constrain the ability or willingness of governments to invest in the LED industry or fund public projects using LED lighting products. Furthermore, our customers may be unable to access capital efficiently, or at all, which could adversely affect our financial condition by resulting in product delays, increased defaults in accounts receivables and increased inventory exposures. Any unfavorable economic or market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations depend on an adequate and timely supply of electricity and water.. We consume significant amounts of electricity and water in our manufacturing process. We may experience future disruptions or shortages in our electricity or water supply, which could result in a drop in or loss of throughput and product yield or even the loss of an entire production run, depending on the duration of disruption or shortage. Although we maintain generators and other backup sources of electricity, these replacement sources are only capable of providing effective backup supplies for limited periods of time. We do not currently have any alternative sources of water nor do we maintain backup tanks. We cannot assure you that we will not experience disruptions or shortages in our electricity or water supply or that there will be sufficient electricity and water available to us to meet our future requirements. Any material disruption could significantly impact our normal business operations, cause us to incur additional costs and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws, which can result in significant costs, and may affect our business and operating results.. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including acids, adhesives and other industrial chemicals. As a result, we are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, transportation, emission, discharge, exposure to, and disposal of such hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate can be costly, and there can be no assurance that violations of these laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure, or other causes. Liability under environmental and health and safety laws can be joint and several, and without regard to fault or negligence. The failure to comply with past, present, or future laws could subject us to increased costs and significant fines and penalties, damages, legal liabilities, suspension of production or operations, alteration of our manufacturing facilities or processes, curtailment of our sales and adverse publicity. Any of these events could harm our business and financial condition.. Furthermore, environmental protection and workplace safety regulations may become more stringent in the future, and although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws, they may impose greater compliance costs or result in increased risks or penalties, which could harm our business. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. As our industry continues to evolve, we may be required to evaluate and use new materials in our manufacturing process that may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations, and our use of such new materials may be restricted. Any such restriction could require us to alter our manufacturing processes or increase our expenses. If we fail to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, whether intentional or inadvertent, we may be required to pay fines and other liabilities to the government or third parties, suspend production or even cease operation.. We have operations and sales in various jurisdictions globally, which may subject us to increasingly complex taxation laws and regulations.. As a multinational organization with operations and sales in various jurisdictions, we may be subject to taxation in such jurisdictions. The various tax laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, with the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations becoming more challenging and uncertain. We may be subject to additional taxes, fines and penalties to the extent we are not correct in our. 21. Table of Contents. interpretation and the amount of taxes we declare and pay. In addition, given the continuing global economic slowdown, as well as high government debt levels of many countries, there is an increasing likelihood that the amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially. Any such events would have a material impact on our reputation, financial condition and results of our operations.. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability.. We conduct operations through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements between our subsidiaries. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arms' length and that contemporaneous documentation is maintained to support the transfer prices. While we believe that we operate in compliance with applicable transfer pricing laws and intend to continue to do so, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms' length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices, which would result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess interest and penalties, it would increase our consolidated tax liability, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Proposed U.S. federal income tax legislation could negatively impact our effective tax rate.. Proposed U.S. tax legislation that could be enacted in the future could substantially impact the tax treatment of our non-U.S. earnings. These proposed changes include limitations on the ability to claim and utilize foreign tax credits and require the deferral of interest expense deductions until non-U.S. earnings are taxed in or repatriated to the United States.. Such proposed legislation, if enacted, could negatively impact the amount of our taxes payable in the United States and our effective tax rate and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Relating to Our Holding Company Structure. Our ability to receive dividends and other payments from Taiwan SemiLEDs may be restricted by commercial and legal restrictions, which may materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, fund investments, make acquisitions, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business.. We are a holding company with one material asset, which is our ownership interest in Taiwan SemiLEDs.. Dividends and interest on intercompany loans we receive from our subsidiaries in Taiwan, if any, will be subject to withholding tax under Taiwan law. The ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to pay dividends, repay intercompany loans from us or make other distributions to us is restricted by, among other things, the availability of funds, the terms of various credit arrangements entered into by our subsidiaries, as well as statutory and other legal restrictions. In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries located in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, we cannot assure you that the relevant regulations will not be changed and that the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us will not be restricted in the future. A Taiwan company is generally not permitted to distribute dividends or to make any other distributions to stockholders for any year in which it did not have either earnings or retained earnings (excluding reserves). In addition, before distributing a dividend to stockholders following the end of a fiscal year, the company must recover any past losses, pay all outstanding taxes and set aside 10% of its annual net income (less prior years' losses and outstanding taxes) as a legal reserve until the accumulated legal reserve equals its paid-in capital, and may set aside a special reserve.. Our ability to operate our holding company in the US is dependent on Taiwan SemiLEDs' ability to repay its obligations to SemiLEDs Corporation.. Our cash position in SemiLEDs Corporation's bank account has declined significantly. SemiLEDs Corporation has substantial intercompany receivables from Taiwan SemiLEDs. However, we are dependent on Taiwan SemiLEDs' ability to raise money through the sale of its building or the sale of a portion of its subsidiary and the restructuring of its chip operation to pay back SemiLEDs Corporation. We entered into an agreement in December 2015 with a strategic partner for the potential sale of our headquarters building located at Miao-Li, Taiwan. The total cash consideration for the sale is $5.2 million, of which the initial installment of $3 million was received on December 14, 2015, $1 million was due on December 31, 2016 and the balance of $1.2 million is due on December 31, 2017. As of August 31, 2017, we haven't received the $1 million due on December 31, 2016. Both parties are in discussions regarding applying the $3 million deposit as partial consideration for the strategic partner to purchase a portion of the equity of one of our subsidiaries and intend to amend the agreement for the sale of the headquarters. However, the investment is subject to the negotiation of a definitive agreement and the approval of the strategic partner's investment committee. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the sale of the building or, alternatively, the sale of a portion of one of our subsidiaries.. 22. Table of Contents. Our ability to make further investments in Taiwan SemiLEDs may be dependent on regulatory approvals in Taiwan.. Taiwan SemiLEDs depends on us to meet its equity financing requirements. Any capital contribution by us to Taiwan SemiLEDs requires the approval of the relevant Taiwan authorities, such as the Hsinchu Science Park Administration. We may not be able to obtain any such approval in the future in a timely manner, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete these government registrations or obtain the government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries or any of their respective subsidiaries. If we fail to complete these registrations or obtain the approvals, our ability to capitalize Taiwan SemiLEDs may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business.. The rights of stockholders may be limited as we conduct a substantial portion of our operations in Taiwan and a substantial portion of our assets and substantially all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States.. Although we are incorporated in Delaware, a substantial portion of our operations are conducted in Taiwan through Taiwan SemiLEDs and its subsidiaries. As such, a substantial portion of our assets are located in Taiwan. In addition, substantially all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action, the laws of Taiwan may render you unable to enforce a United States judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers.. For judgments obtained in courts outside of Taiwan to be recognized and enforceable in Taiwan without review of the merits, the Taiwan court in which the enforcement is sought must be satisfied that: the foreign court rendering such judgment has jurisdiction over the subject matter in accordance with the Taiwan law; the judgment and the court procedure resulting in the judgment are not contrary to the public order or good morals of Taiwan; the judgment is a final judgment for which the period for appeal has expired or from which no appeal can be taken; if the judgment was rendered by default by the foreign court, the defendant was duly served in the jurisdiction of such court within a reasonable period of time in accordance with the laws and regulations of such jurisdiction, or process was served on the defendant with the Taiwan judicial assistance; and judgment of Taiwan courts is recognized and enforceable in the foreign court rendering the judgment on a reciprocal basis.. Political, Geographical and Economic Risks. Due to the location of our operations, we are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, which may seriously disrupt our operations.. Most of our operations are located in Taiwan, and the operations of many of our LED manufacturing service providers, suppliers and customers are located in Taiwan and the PRC. For the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, 23% and 38%, respectively, of our revenues were derived from customers located in Taiwan and China (including Hong Kong). Our operations and the operations of our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, droughts, typhoons, fires, power losses and other major catastrophic events, including the outbreak, or threatened outbreak, of any widespread communicable diseases. Disruption of operations due to any of these events may require us to evacuate personnel or suspend operations, which could reduce our productivity. Such disasters may also damage our facilities and equipment and cause us to incur additional costs to repair our facilities or procure new equipment, or result in personal injuries or fatalities or result in the termination of our leases and land use agreements. Any resulting delays in shipments of our products could also cause our customers to obtain products from other sources. Although we maintain property insurance for such risks, there is no guarantee that future damages or business losses from earthquakes and catastrophic other events will be covered by such insurance, that we will be able to collect from our insurance carriers, should we choose to claim under our insurance policies, or that such coverage will be sufficient. In addition, natural disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and typhoons, may also disrupt or seriously affect the operations of our customers and suppliers, resulting in reduced orders or shipments or the inability to perform contractual obligations. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations in China expose us to certain inherent legal and other risks that could adversely affect our business.. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign companies operating in China in general and specifically to the laws and regulations applicable to foreign invested joint stock companies. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. The PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve and the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, our current and future operating subsidiaries in China must obtain relevant permits (including land use permits), licenses and approvals necessary for to commence operations and sales and, no assurance can be given that they will be able to do so or that if obtained that such permits, licenses or approvals will be adequate or that they will not be revoked or cancelled in the future. In addition, some regulatory requirements issued by certain PRC government authorities may not be consistently applied by other government authorities (including local government authorities), thus making strict compliance with all regulatory requirements impractical, or in some circumstances, impossible. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we have either by law or contract. However,. 23. Table of Contents. since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we have. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers.. Because the legal and regulatory environment in China is subject to inherent uncertainties, the enforcement of our rights as a foreign company investing in China may be difficult. For example, our intellectual property may be afforded less protection in China than in some other countries. By entering the market in China in general and by licensing our intellectual property to China SemiLEDs for example, our vulnerability towards unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property may be significantly increased.. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management's attention and resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given the relative unpredictability of China's legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, we may be unable to halt the unauthorized use of our intellectual property through litigation, which could adversely affect our competitive position, our ability to attract customers, and our results of operations.. Strained relations between the PRC and Taiwan could negatively affect our business and the market price of our common stock.. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the PRC have been separately governed. The PRC government claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has refused to renounce the possibility that it may at some point use force to gain control over Taiwan. Furthermore, the PRC government adopted an anti-secession law relating to Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC governments have been strained in recent years for a variety of reasons, including the PRC government's position on the \"One China\" policy and tensions concerning arms sales to Taiwan by the United States government. Any tension between the Taiwan government and the PRC government, or between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect the market prices of our common stock.. If the U.S. dollar or other currencies in which our sales, raw materials, component purchases and capital expenditures are denominated fluctuate significantly against the New Taiwan, or NT, dollar and other currencies, our profitability may be seriously affected.. We have significant foreign currency exposure, and are primarily affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the NT dollar and other currencies. A portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than NT dollars, primarily U.S. dollars. We do not hedge our net foreign exchange positions through the use of forward exchange contracts or otherwise and as a result we are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the NT dollar and other currencies. For example, the announcement of Brexit caused severe volatility in global currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. Any significant fluctuation in exchange rates may be harmful to our financial condition and results of operations.. The PRC government's control of currency conversion and changes in the exchange rate between the Renminbi and other currencies could negatively affect our financial condition and our ability to pay dividends.. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from State Administration of Foreign Exchange in China, or SAFE, provided that we satisfy certain procedural requirements. However, approval from SAFE or its local counterpart is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Our revenue from sales in China (including Hong Kong) accounted for 11% and 26% of our revenues for the years ended August 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, may not be subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage. In the past, there have been instances of corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices in Taiwan and China, as well as other Asian countries and Russia. We cannot assure that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct and render us responsible under the FCPA. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in corrupt or fraudulent business practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock. We may fail to qualify for continued listing on NASDAQ which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares.. In December 2010, our common stock was initially approved for listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market but was transferred to the NASDAQ Capital Market effective November 5, 2015. To maintain that listing, we must satisfy the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ for inclusion in the NASDAQ Capital Market, including among other things, a minimum stockholders' equity of $2.5 million and a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share, that a majority of the members of our board of directors are independent under the NASDAQ Listing Rules and that our audit committee consist of three independent directors who satisfy additional requirements under the Exchange Act. Although we are currently in compliance with these requirements, there is no assurance that our common stock will continue to qualify for continued listing on NASDAQ which would materially and adversely impact the market value of our common stock.. We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution.. We may require additional capital due to continuing losses, deteriorating business conditions or other future developments. If our current sources of capital are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain bank loans and credit facilities. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of further indebtedness, whether in the form of public debt or bonds or bank financing, would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity.. Our ability to obtain external financing is subject to a number of uncertainties, including:. •  our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the trading price of our common stock;. •  the state of global credit markets and our creditworthiness;. •  general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; and. •  economic, political and other conditions in Taiwan, China and elsewhere.. We cannot assure you that financing, if needed, would be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and you may be unable to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid.. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to broad fluctuations. The market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various risk factors listed in this section and others beyond our control, including:. •  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our key operating metrics, financial condition and operating results;. •  changes in the composition of and the orders received from our customers;. •  actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate;. •  issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts that have a change in outlook regarding the performance of our business or the future trading price of our common stock;. •  our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are higher or lower than projected or expected results or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is higher or lower than expected;. •  fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. •  share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares;. •  sales or expected sales of additional common stock;. •  announcements from, or operating results of, our competitors; and. •  general economic and market conditions.. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We had ever. 25. Table of Contents. been a defendant in two filed actions and may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. As of November 13, 2017, 3.5 million shares of common stock were issued and outstanding, including approximately 0.6 million shares of common stock issued in the initial public offering, which are freely tradable without restriction by non-affiliates. Certain stockholders, including stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares as well as current and former employees, are eligible to resell shares of common stock in the public market under Rule 144, which, in the case of our affiliate and persons who have been affiliates in the last three months, would be subject to volume limitations and certain other restrictions under Rule 144, including that we are current in our SEC filings. In general, Rule 144 provides that any of our non-affiliates, who have held restricted common stock for at least six-months, are entitled to sell their restricted stock freely, provided that we are current in our SEC filings. After one year, a non-affiliate may sell without any restrictions.. We have also filed registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register approximately 565 thousand shares for issuance pursuant to options or other rights to purchase common stock under our equity incentive plans. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to the applicable plan and/or the agreements entered into with holders of options or other rights to purchase common stock in connection with the issuance of such options or other rights to purchase common stock.. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and will be able to influence corporate matters.. As of November 13, 2017, our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, nearly one-half of our outstanding common stock. As a result, certain of these stockholders acting alone or these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to practically control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by:. •  limiting stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters;. •  delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control;. •  impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or. •  discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. There can be no assurance that our interests will not conflict with those of these stockholders, who may also take actions that are not in line, or may conflict, with our other stockholders' best interests.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or convertible preferred stock and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or maintain the price at which our stockholders purchased their shares.. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable.. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. As long as our major stockholder, Simplot Taiwan, Inc., which is beneficially owned by Scott R. Simplot, one of our directors, continues to hold 25% or more of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, shareholders holding at least 25% of the total voting power of all outstanding shares of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors are able to call a special meeting in accordance with our bylaws; provided, however, at such time when the ownership interest of Simplot Taiwan, Inc. first falls below 25% of our total voting power, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that a special meeting may be called only by a majority of our board of directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation precludes stockholder action by written consent. In addition, our amended and restated bylaws require that any stockholder. 26. Table of Contents. proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors must meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. In addition, the authorization of undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change our control.. Furthermore, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit or restrict large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in our market price being lower than it would be without these provisions."
