[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are risks we believe are material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, prospects or ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the risks described below, the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements\" and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Tenants and Managers. Financial and other difficulties at Five Star could adversely affect us.. Our leases with Five Star accounted for approximately 31.2% of our total annualized rental income as of December 31, 2017 and approximately 19.6% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. Five Star also leases 27.6% and manages for our account 19.3% of our properties, at cost before depreciation and purchase price allocations, less impairments, as of December 31, 2017.  Five Star has not been consistently profitable since it became a public company in 2001.  Although Five Star has access to a $100.0 million secured revolving credit facility that matures in 2020, subject to extensions upon Five Star's payment of extension fees and meeting other conditions, it currently has limited resources and substantial lease obligations to us and others.. Five Star's business is subject to a number of risks, including the following:. • Five Star has high operating leverage; therefore, a small percentage decline in Five Star's revenues or increase in its expenses could have a material adverse impact on Five Star's operating results.. • The current trend for seniors to delay moving to senior living communities until they require greater care could have a material adverse effect on Five Star's business, financial condition and results of operations.. • Increases in labor costs may have a material adverse effect on Five Star.. • Increases in newly developed senior living communities may have a material adverse effect on Five Star.. • Circumstances that adversely affect the ability of seniors or their families to pay for Five Star's services, such as economic downturns, softness in the U.S. housing market, higher levels of unemployment among resident family members, lower levels of consumer confidence, stock market volatility and/or changes in demographics, could cause Five Star's occupancy rates, revenues and results of operations to decline.. • The failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to match Five Star's costs would reduce Five Star's income and may cause Five Star to continue to experience losses.. • Private third party payers', such as insurance companies', continued efforts to reduce healthcare costs could adversely affect Five Star.. • Provisions of the ACA, or the possible future repeal, replacement or modification of the ACA, could reduce Five Star's income and increase its costs.. • Five Star's business is subject to extensive regulation, which requires Five Star to incur significant costs and may cause Five Star to experience losses.. • The nature of Five Star's business exposes it to litigation and regulatory and government proceedings; Five Star has been, is currently, and expects in the future to be involved in claims, lawsuits and regulatory and government audits,. 36. Table of Contents. investigations and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which may involve material amounts.. • Five Star's strategy to continue to grow its business by entering into additional long term lease and management arrangements for, and by acquiring, senior living communities where residents' private resources account for all or a large majority of revenues, may not succeed and may cause Five Star to continue to experience losses.. If Five Star's operations continue to be unprofitable, it may default in its rent obligations to us or we may realize reduced income from our managed senior living communities, and, if Five Star fails to provide quality services at the senior living communities we own, our income from these communities may be adversely affected.  Furthermore, if we were required to replace Five Star as our majority tenant and manager, we could experience significant disruptions in operations at our applicable senior living communities, which could reduce our income and cash flow from, and the value of, those communities.. The current trend for seniors to delay moving to senior living communities until they require greater care could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Seniors have been increasingly delaying their moves to senior living communities, including to our leased and managed senior living communities, until they require greater care. Further, rehabilitation therapy and other services are increasingly being provided to seniors on an outpatient basis or in seniors' personal residences in response to market demand and government regulation, which may increase the trend for seniors to delay moving to senior living communities. Such delays may cause decreases in occupancy rates and increases in resident turnover rates at our senior living communities. Moreover, older aged persons may have greater care needs and require higher acuity services, which may increase our tenants' and managers' cost of business, expose our tenants and managers to additional liability or result in lost business and shorter stays at our leased and managed senior living communities if our tenants and managers are not able to provide the requisite care services or fail to adequately provide those services. These trends may negatively impact the occupancy rates, revenues and cash flows at our leased and managed senior living communities and our results of operations.. Increases in labor costs at our managed senior living communities may have a material adverse effect on us.. Wages and employee benefits associated with the operations of our managed senior living communities represent a significant part of our managed senior living communities' operating expenses. Our managers compete with other senior living community operators, among others, to attract and retain qualified personnel responsible for the day to day operations of our managed senior living communities. The market for qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive, and periodic or geographic area shortages of such healthcare professionals may require our managers to increase the wages and benefits they offer to their employees in order to attract and retain such personnel or to utilize temporary personnel at an increased cost. In addition, employee benefit costs, including health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs, have materially increased in recent years and, as noted above, we cannot predict the future impact of the ACA, or the possible future repeal, replacement or modification of the ACA, on the cost of employee health insurance. Although Five Star determines its employee health insurance and workers' compensation self insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, its reserves may nonetheless be inadequate. Increasing employee health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves for labor related insurance may materially and adversely affect our earnings from our managed senior living communities.. We cannot be sure that labor costs at our managed senior living communities will not increase or that any increases will be recovered by corresponding increases in the rates charged to residents or otherwise. Any significant failure by our managers to control labor costs or to pass any increases on to residents through rate increases could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal, state and local employment related laws and regulations could increase the cost of doing business at our managed senior living communities, and our managers may fail to comply with such laws and regulations.. The operations at our managed senior living communities are subject to a variety of federal, state and local employment related laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, the Family and Medical Leave Act, overtime pay, compensable time, recordkeeping and other working conditions, and a variety of similar laws that govern these and other employment related matters. Because labor represents a significant portion of our managed senior living communities' operating expenses, compliance with these evolving laws and regulations could substantially increase the cost of doing business at our managed senior living communities, while failure to do so could subject our managers to significant back pay awards, fines and lawsuits. Our managers' failure to comply with federal, state and local. 37. Table of Contents. employment related laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The nature of our tenants' and managers' business exposes them to litigation and regulatory and government proceedings.. Our tenants and managers have been, are currently, and expect in the future to be involved in claims, lawsuits and regulatory and government audits, investigations and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of their and our business, some of which may involve material amounts. The defense and resolution of such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings may require our tenants and managers to incur significant expenses. In several well publicized instances, private litigation by residents of senior living communities for alleged abuses has resulted in large damage awards against senior living companies. Some lawyers and law firms specialize in bringing litigation against senior living community operators. As a result of this litigation and potential litigation, the cost of our tenants' and managers' liability insurance continues to increase. Medical liability insurance reform has at times been a topic of political debate, and some states have enacted legislation to limit future liability awards. However, such reforms have not generally been adopted, and we expect our tenants' and managers' insurance costs may continue to increase. Further, although Five Star determines its self insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, its reserves may nonetheless be inadequate. Insurance costs related to our managed senior living communities are included as operating expenses of those communities, which reduce our returns from those communities. Increasing liability insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves could have a material adverse effect on our tenants' and managers' business, financial condition and results of operations which could cause them to become unable to pay rents due to us or generate and pay minimum and other returns to us.. Depressed U.S. housing market conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of seniors to relocate to our senior living communities.. Downturns or stagnation in the U.S. housing market could adversely affect the ability, or perceived ability, of seniors to afford our tenants' and managers' entrance fees and resident fees as prospective residents frequently use the proceeds from the sale of their homes to cover the cost of such fees. If seniors have a difficult time selling their homes, their ability to relocate to our leased and managed senior living communities or finance their stays at our leased and managed senior living communities with private resources could be adversely affected. If U.S. housing market conditions reduce seniors' willingness or ability to relocate to our leased and managed senior living communities, the occupancy rates, revenues and cash flows at our leased and managed senior living communities and our results of operations could be negatively impacted.. Our tenants or managers may fail to comply with laws relating to the operation of our leased and managed senior living communities.. We and our tenants and managers are subject to, or impacted by, extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations, including: licensure laws; laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and managers conduct their operations, such as with respect to health and safety, fire and privacy matters; laws affecting communities that participate in Medicaid; laws affecting SNFs, clinics and other healthcare facilities that participate in both Medicare and Medicaid which mandate allowable costs, pricing, reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, food service and physical plants; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws; and safety and health standards established by OSHA.  We and our tenants and managers are also required to comply with federal and state laws governing the privacy, security, use and disclosure of individually identifiable information, including financial information and protected health information.  Under HIPAA, we and our tenants and managers are required to comply with the HIPAA privacy rule, security standards and standards for electronic healthcare transactions.  State laws also govern the privacy of individual health information, and these laws are, in some jurisdictions, more stringent than HIPAA.. We and our tenants and managers expend significant resources to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations.  However, if we or our tenants or managers are alleged to fail, or do fail, to comply with applicable legal requirements, we or they may have to expend significant resources to respond to such allegations, and if we or they are unable to cure deficiencies, certain sanctions may be imposed which may adversely affect the ability of our tenants to pay us rent, the profitability of our managed senior living communities and our ability to obtain, renew or maintain licenses at those communities and the values of our properties.  Changes in applicable regulatory frameworks could also have similar adverse effects.. Termination of assisted living resident agreements and resident attrition could adversely affect revenues and earnings at our leased and managed senior living communities.. State regulations governing assisted living communities typically require a written resident agreement with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate these assisted living resident agreements for. 38. Table of Contents. any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, most of our tenants' and managers' resident agreements allow residents to terminate their agreements on 30 days' notice. Thus, our tenants and managers may be unable to contract with assisted living residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with terms of up to a year or longer. If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, revenues and earnings at our leased and managed senior living communities could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the advanced ages of residents at our leased and managed senior living communities make resident turnover rates difficult to predict.. The operations of some of our communities are dependent upon payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 97% of our NOI was generated from properties where a majority of the revenue is derived from private resources, and the remaining 3% of our NOI was generated from properties where a majority of the revenue was derived from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Operations at most of our Medicare and Medicaid dependent properties currently produce sufficient cash flow to pay our allocated rents or our minimum returns, but operations at certain of these properties do not. Even at properties where less than a majority of the NOI comes from Medicare or Medicaid payments, a reduction in such payments could materially adversely affect profits of, or result in losses to, our tenants or managers. With the background of the current and projected federal budget deficit and other federal priorities and continued challenging state fiscal conditions, there have been numerous recent legislative and regulatory actions or proposed actions with respect to federal Medicare and state Medicaid rates and federal payments to states for Medicaid programs. For further information regarding such programs, see elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including under the caption \"Business - Government Regulation and Reimbursement\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and under the caption \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of Government Reimbursement\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If and to the extent Medicare or Medicaid rates are reduced from current levels, or if rate increases are less than increases in operating costs, such changes could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our tenants to pay us rent, the profitability of our managed senior living communities and the values of our properties. In addition, the revenues that we or our tenants receive from Medicare and Medicaid may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set offs, administrative rulings and policy interpretations, and payment delays, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our tenants to pay us rent, the profitability of our managed senior living communities and the values of our properties.. Provisions of the ACA and efforts to repeal, replace or modify the ACA could adversely affect us or our tenants and managers.. The ACA contains insurance changes, payment changes and healthcare delivery systems changes that have affected, and will continue to affect, us, our tenants and managers. Examples of these, and other information regarding such programs, are provided below as well as under the caption \"Business - Government Regulation and Reimbursement\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and under the caption \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of Government Reimbursement\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Provisions of the ACA include multiple reductions to the annual market basket updates for inflation that may result in SNF Medicare payment rates being less than for the preceding fiscal year. We are unable to predict how potential Medicare rate reductions under the ACA will affect our tenants' and our managers' future financial results of operations; however, the effect may be adverse and material and hence adverse and material to our future financial condition and results of operations.. Further, the ACA includes other changes that may affect us, our tenants and our managers, such as enforcement reforms and Medicare and Medicaid program integrity control initiatives, new compliance, ethics and public disclosure requirements, initiatives to encourage the development of home and community based long term care services rather than institutional services under Medicaid, value based purchasing plans and a Medicare post acute care pilot program to develop and evaluate making a bundled payment for services, including hospital, physician and SNF services, provided during an episode of care.. Changes implemented under the ACA resulting in reduced payments for services or the failure of Medicare, Medicaid or insurance payment rates to cover increasing costs could adversely and materially affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us, the profitability of certain of our managed senior living communities and the values of our properties.. On October 12, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order that modified certain aspects of the ACA by directing federal agencies to reduce limits on association health plans and temporary insurance plans and to permit workers to use funds from tax advantaged accounts to pay for their own coverage. On the same day, the Trump Administration also announced that it would stop paying what are known as cost sharing reduction subsidies to issuers of qualified health plans under the ACA. Further, as a result of a new tax reform law, effective January 1, 2019, the penalty associated with the individual mandate provision of the. 39. Table of Contents. ACA was reduced to $0. To the extent the ACA is repealed, replaced or modified, additional risks and regulatory uncertainty may arise. Depending upon what aspects of the ACA are repealed, replaced or modified, our future financial results could be adversely and materially affected.. Risks Related to Our Business. REIT distribution requirements and limitations on our ability to access reasonably priced capital may adversely impact our ability to carry out our business plan.. To maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). Accordingly, we may not be able to retain sufficient cash to fund our operations, repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund our acquisitions or development or redevelopment efforts. Our business strategies therefore depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs. The volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis in most debt and equity markets generally may limit our ability to raise reasonably priced capital. We may also be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business, market perceptions of our prospects, the terms of our indebtedness or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Because the earnings we are permitted to retain are limited by the rules governing REIT qualification and taxation, if we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, we may not be able to carry out our business plan.. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us.. Since the most recent U.S. recession, the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, or the U.S. Federal Reserve, has taken actions that have resulted in low interest rates for a long period of time. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. Market interest rates may continue to increase, and those increases may materially and negatively affect us in several ways, including:. • Investors may consider whether to buy or sell our common shares based upon the distribution rate on our common shares relative to the then prevailing market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, investors may expect a higher distribution rate than we are able to pay, which may increase our cost of capital, or they may sell our common shares and seek alternative investments that offer higher distribution rates. Sales of our common shares may cause a decline in the value of our common shares.. • Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loans require interest to be paid at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our interest costs will increase, which could adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our fixed rate debts when they become due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot be sure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us.. • Property values are often determined, in part, based upon a capitalization of rental income formula. When market interest rates increase, property investors often demand higher capitalization rates and that causes property values to decline. Increases in interest rates could lower the value of our properties and cause the value of our securities to decline.. We are limited in our ability to operate or manage our properties and are thus dependent on our tenants and managers.. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing health care facilities, we do not operate or manage our senior living communities. Instead, we lease nearly all of our senior living communities to operating companies or to our subsidiaries that qualify as TRSs under the IRC. We have retained third party managers to operate and manage our senior living communities that are leased to our subsidiaries. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if our tenants or managers fail to provide quality services and amenities to residents or if they fail to maintain quality services. While we monitor the performance of our tenants and managers and apply asset management strategies and discipline, we have limited recourse under our leases and management agreements if we believe that our tenants or managers are not performing adequately. Any failure by our tenants or managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our leases and management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our tenants and managers operate, and in some cases own or have invested in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest, and fees paid to our managers are often set as a percentage of gross revenues rather than profits. As a result, our tenants and managers have made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing properties or our properties' operations that may not be in our best interests.. 40. Table of Contents. Our properties and their operations are subject to extensive regulations.. Various government authorities mandate certain physical characteristics of senior housing properties, clinics, other healthcare communities and biotechnology laboratories. Changes in laws and regulations relating to these matters may require significant expenditures. Our leases, other than our MOB leases, and our management agreements generally require our tenants or managers to maintain our properties in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and we expend resources to monitor their compliance. However, our tenants or managers may neglect maintenance of our properties if they suffer financial distress. Under some of our leases, we have agreed to fund capital expenditures in return for rent increases and minimum returns due to us, with respect to our managed senior living communities increase by a defined percentage of the capital expenditures we fund at those communities. Our available financial resources or those of our tenants or managers may be insufficient to fund the expenditures required to operate our properties in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. If we fund these expenditures, our tenants' financial resources may be insufficient to satisfy their increased rental payments to us or our managed senior living communities may fail to generate profits sufficient to fund our minimum returns.. Licensing, Medicare and Medicaid laws also require our tenants who operate senior living communities, clinics and other healthcare communities to comply with extensive standards governing their operations. In addition, certain laws prohibit fraud by senior living operators, and other healthcare communities, including civil and criminal laws that prohibit false claims in Medicare, Medicaid and other programs and that regulate patient referrals. In recent years, the federal and state governments have devoted increasing resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations in healthcare operations generally. The ACA also facilitates the DOJ's ability to investigate allegations of wrongdoing or fraud at SNFs. When violations of anti-fraud, false claims, anti-kickback or physician referral laws are identified, federal or state authorities may impose civil monetary damages, treble damages, repayment requirements and criminal sanctions. Healthcare communities may also be subject to license revocation or conditional licensure and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid participation or conditional participation. When quality of care deficiencies or improper billing are identified, various laws may authorize civil money penalties or fines; the suspension, modification or revocation of a license or Medicare/Medicaid participation; the suspension or denial of admissions of residents; the denial of payments in full or in part; the implementation of state oversight, temporary management or receivership; and the imposition of criminal penalties. We, our tenants and managers receive notices of potential sanctions from time to time, and government authorities impose such sanctions from time to time on our communities which our tenants and managers operate. If our tenants or managers are unable to cure deficiencies which have been identified or which are identified in the future, these sanctions may be imposed, and if imposed, may adversely affect our tenants' ability to pay rents to us, our returns and our ability to identify substitute tenants or managers. Federal and state requirements for change in control of healthcare communities, including, as applicable, approvals of the proposed operator for licensure, CONs, and Medicare and Medicaid participation, may also limit or delay our ability to find substitute tenants or managers. If any of our tenants or managers becomes unable to operate our properties, or if any of our tenants becomes unable to pay its rent or generate and pay our minimum returns because it has violated government regulations or payment laws, such incidents may trigger a default under their leases and management agreements with us and our or our tenants' or managers' credit agreements, and we may experience difficulty in finding a substitute tenant or manager or selling the affected property for a fair and commercially reasonable price, and the value of an affected property may decline materially.. Various laws administered by the FDA and other agencies regulate the operations of our tenants that operate biotechnology laboratories that develop, manufacture, market or distribute pharmaceuticals or medical devices. Once a product is approved, the FDA maintains oversight of the product and its developer and can withdraw its approval, recall products or suspend their production, impose or seek to impose civil or criminal penalties on the developer or take other actions for the developer's failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including anti-fraud, false claims, anti-kickback or physician referral laws. Other concerns affecting our biotechnology laboratory tenants include the potential for subsequent discovery of safety concerns and related litigation, ensuring that the product qualifies for reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state programs, cost control initiatives of payment programs, the potential for litigation over the validity or infringement of intellectual property rights related to the product, the eventual expiration of relevant patents and the need to raise additional capital. The cost of compliance with these regulations and the risks described in this paragraph, among others, could adversely affect the ability of our biotechnology laboratory tenants to pay rent to us.. We may be unable to grow our business by acquisitions of additional properties.. Our business plans involve the acquisition of additional properties. Our ability to make profitable acquisitions is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:. • competition from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals, foreign investors and other public and private companies;. 41. Table of Contents. • our long term cost of capital;. • contingencies in our acquisition agreements; and. • the availability and terms of financing.. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to our acquired properties. For example:. • we do not believe that it is possible to understand fully a property before it is owned and operated for a reasonable period of time, and, notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction;. • the market in which an acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value;. • the occupancy of and rents from properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership;. • property operating costs for our acquired properties may be higher than anticipated, and our acquired properties may not yield expected returns;. • we may acquire properties subject to unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with limited recourse, such as liability for the cleanup of undisclosed environmental contamination or for claims by residents, tenants, vendors or other persons related to actions taken by former owners of the properties; and. • acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our other business activities.. For these reasons, among others, we might not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, and our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us to experience losses.. We and our tenants and managers face significant competition.. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals, foreign investors and other public and private companies. Because of competition, we may be unable to acquire, or may pay a significantly increased purchase price for, a desired property, which would reduce our expected returns from that property. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than us. Further, during prior periods of economic recession, some investors have focused on healthcare real estate investments because of a belief that these types of investments may be less affected by general economic circumstances than most other investments. Low historical market interest rates and increased leverage utilized by financial and other buyers have caused purchase prices for healthcare real estate investments to increase, therefore decreasing rates of returns. Such conditions have resulted in increased competition for investments, fewer available investment opportunities and lower spreads over the cost of capital. If such conditions continue for a protracted period, our ability to grow our business and improve our financial results may be materially and adversely affected.. We also face competition for tenants at our properties, particularly at our MOBs. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners offering available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. Development activities may increase the supply of properties of the type we own in the leasing markets in which we own properties and increase the competition we face. Competition may make it difficult for us to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge.. Further, our tenants and managers compete with numerous other senior living community operators, as well as companies that provide senior living services, such as home healthcare companies and other real estate based service providers. Some of our tenants' and managers' existing competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than they do and some of their competitors are not for profit entities which have endowment income and may not face the same financial pressures that they do. We cannot be sure that our tenants and managers will be able to attract a sufficient number of residents to our leased and managed senior living communities at rates that will generate acceptable returns or that they will be able to attract employees and keep wages and other employee benefits, insurance costs and other operating expenses at levels which will allow them to compete successfully and operate our senior living communities profitably.. 42. Table of Contents. Competition from newly developed senior living communities may adversely affect the profitability of our senior living communities.. In recent years, a significant number of new senior living communities have been developed and continue to be developed. Although there are indications that the rate of newly started developments has recently declined, the increased supply of senior living communities that has resulted from recent development activity has increased competitive pressures on our tenants and managers, particularly in certain geographic markets where we own senior living communities, and we expect these competitive challenges to continue for at least the next few years. These competitive challenges may prevent our tenants and manager from maintaining or improving occupancy and rates at our senior living communities, which may increase the risk of default under our leases, reduce the rents and returns we may receive and earn from our leased and managed senior living communities and adversely affect the profitability of our senior living communities, and may cause the value of our properties to decline.. We may be unable to lease our properties when our leases expire.. Although we typically will seek to renew our leases with current tenants when they expire, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in doing so. If our tenants do not renew their leases, we may be unable to obtain new tenants to maintain or increase the historical occupancy rates of, or rents from, our properties.. We may experience declining rents or incur significant costs to renew our leases or to lease our properties to new tenants.. When we renew our leases with current tenants or lease to new tenants, we may experience rent decreases, and we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant improvements or other tenant inducements. Moreover, many of our MOB properties have been specially designed for the particular businesses of our tenants; if the current leases for such properties are terminated or are not renewed, we may be required to renovate such properties at substantial costs, decrease the rents we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease such properties to new tenants.. Current office space utilization trends may adversely impact our business.. There is a general trend in office real estate for companies to decrease the space they occupy per employee. This increase in office utilization rates may result in our MOB tenants renewing their leases for less area than they currently occupy, which could increase the vacancy and decrease rental income at our MOBs. The need to reconfigure leased office space to increase utilization also may require us to spend increased amounts for tenant improvements.. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental risks.. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants or managers, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, including us, for environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, owned properties, and we may be liable for the costs of environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties. As an owner or previous owner of properties, we also may be liable to pay damages to government agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, such properties. The costs and damages that may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial.. In addition, we believe some of our properties may contain asbestos. We believe any asbestos on our properties is contained in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we removed the asbestos or demolished the affected properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations.. Current government policies regarding interest rates and trade policies may cause a recession.. The U.S. Federal Reserve policy regarding the timing and amount of future increases in interest rates and changing U.S. and other countries' trade policies may hinder the growth of the U.S. economy. It is unclear whether the U.S. economy will be able to withstand these challenges and continue sustained growth. Economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new U.S. recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants and managers, could adversely impact the ability of our tenants and managers to renew our leases or management agreements or pay rents or returns to us, and may cause the values of our properties and of our securities to decline.. Ownership of real estate is subject to climate change and adverse weather risks.. 43. Table of Contents. Some observers believe severe weather in different parts of the world over the last few years is evidence of global climate change. Severe weather may have an adverse effect on certain properties we own. Flooding caused by rising sea levels and severe weather events, including hurricanes, tornadoes and widespread fires, may have an adverse effect on properties we own and result in significant losses to us and interruption of our business. Also, the political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations that are intended to limit carbon emissions. These or future laws may cause operating costs at our properties to increase. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or require us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the value of our securities to decline.. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities.. In addition to the risks discussed above, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including:. • the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions;. • the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time;. • current and future adverse national real estate trends, including increasing vacancy rates, declining rental rates and general deterioration of market conditions;. • costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in government regulations; and. • liabilities and litigations arising from injuries on our properties or otherwise incidental to the ownership of our properties.. We have debt and we may incur additional debt.. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated indebtedness was $3.7 billion, our consolidated indebtedness to total gross assets ratio was 42.0% and we had $404.0 million available for borrowing under our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility. The agreements governing our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, our $350.0 million term loan and our $200.0 million term loan include a feature under which the maximum aggregate borrowing availability may be increased to up to $2.0 billion, $700.0 million and $400.0 million, respectively.. We are subject to numerous risks associated with our debt, including the risk that our cash flows could be insufficient for us to make required payments on our debt. There are no limits in our organizational documents on the amount of debt we may incur, and we may incur substantial debt. Our debt obligations could have important consequences to our securityholders. Our incurring debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. Excessive debt could limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, construction projects, refinancing, lease obligations or other purposes and hinder our ability to maintain investment grade ratings from nationally recognized credit rating agencies or to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. If we default under any of our debt obligations, we may be in default under the agreements governing other debt obligations of ours which have cross default provisions, including our credit facility and term loan agreements and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements. In such case, our lenders may demand immediate payment of any outstanding indebtedness and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process.. We may fail to comply with the terms of our credit facility and term loan agreements and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements, which could adversely affect our business and may prevent our making distributions to our shareholders.. Our credit facility and term loan agreements and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements include various conditions, covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including for reasons beyond our control. For example, our credit facility and term loan agreements and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements require us to maintain certain debt service ratios. Our ability to comply with such covenants will depend upon the net rental income and returns we receive from our properties. If. 44. Table of Contents. the occupancy at our properties declines or if our rents or returns decline, we may be unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility. Complying with these covenants may limit our ability to take actions that may be beneficial to us and our securityholders.. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our obligations or grow our business by acquiring additional properties. If we default under our credit facility or term loan agreements, our lenders may demand immediate payment and may elect not to fund future borrowings. During the continuance of any event of default under our credit facility or term loan agreements, we may be limited or in some cases prohibited from making distributions to our shareholders. Any default under our credit facility or term loan agreements that results in acceleration of our obligations to repay outstanding indebtedness or in our no longer being permitted to borrow under our revolving credit facility would likely have serious adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the value of our securities to decline.. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional debt may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions that are contained in our credit facility or term loan agreements or our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements.. RMR LLC and Five Star rely on information technology and systems in their operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology or those systems could materially and adversely affect us.. RMR LLC and Five Star rely on information technology and systems, including the Internet and commercially available software, to process, transmit, store and safeguard information and to manage or support a variety of their business processes (including managing our building systems), including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of employees, residents and tenants and lease data. If either of RMR LLC or Five Star experiences material security or other failures, inadequacies or interruptions of its information technology, it could incur material costs and losses and our operations could be disrupted as a result. Further, third party vendors could experience similar events with respect to their information technology and systems that impact the products and services they provide to RMR LLC, Five Star or us. RMR LLC and Five Star rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as their internal procedures and personnel, to provide security for processing, transmitting, storing and safeguarding confidential resident, tenant, customer and vendor information, such as personally identifiable information related to their employees and others, including in Five Star's case, residents, and information regarding their and our financial accounts. Each of RMR LLC and Five Star takes various actions, and incurs significant costs, to maintain and protect the operation and security of its information technology and systems, including the data maintained in those systems. However, it is possible that these measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or a compromise in security, such as in the event of a cyberattack or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information.. Security breaches, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, online fraud schemes and similar breaches can create significant system disruptions, shutdowns, fraudulent transfer of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. For example, in June 2017, RMR LLC became aware that it had been a victim of criminal fraud in which a person pretending to be a representative of a seller in a property acquisition transaction provided fraudulent money wire instructions that caused money to be wire transferred to an account that was believed to be, but was not, the seller's account. We were not involved in that transaction and we did not incur any loss from that transaction; however, there may be a risk that similar fraudulent activities could be attempted against us, RMR LLC or others with respect to our assets. The cybersecurity risks to RMR LLC, Five Star, us and third party vendors are heightened by, among other things, the evolving nature of the threats faced, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and increasingly sophisticated methods used to perpetuate illegal or fraudulent activities against RMR LLC or Five Star, including cyberattacks, email or wire fraud and other attacks exploiting security vulnerabilities in RMR LLC's, Five Star's or other third parties' information technology networks and systems or operations. Any failure to maintain the security, proper function and availability of RMR LLC's or Five Star's information technology and systems, or certain third party vendors' failure to similarly protect their information technology and systems that are relevant to RMR LLC's, Five Star's or our operations, or to safeguard RMR LLC's, Five Star's or our business processes, assets and information could result in financial losses, interrupt RMR LLC's or Five Star's operations, damage RMR LLC's or Five Star's reputation, cause RMR LLC or Five Star to be in default of material contracts and subject RMR LLC or Five Star to liability claims or regulatory penalties. Any or all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our securities.. Real estate construction and redevelopment creates risks.. Our business plans involve the development of new properties or the redevelopment of some of our existing properties as the existing leases expire, as our tenants' or managers' needs change or to pursue any other opportunities that we believe are desirable. The development and redevelopment of new and existing buildings involves significant risks in addition to those involved in the ownership and operation of leased properties, including the risks that construction may not be completed on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased construction costs and delays in leasing such properties and generating cash flows. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land. 45. Table of Contents. use, building, occupancy, and other required government permits and authorizations. Once completed, any new properties may perform below anticipated financial results. The occurrence of one or more of these circumstances in connection with our development or redevelopment activities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the value of our securities.. Insurance may not adequately cover our losses.. We or our tenants are generally responsible for the costs of insurance coverage for our properties, including for casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage. Losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by hurricanes, flooding, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, among other things, may be covered by insurance policies with limitations such as large deductibles or co-payments that we or a responsible tenant may not be able to pay. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to restore an affected property to its condition prior to a loss or to compensate us for our losses, including the loss of future revenues from an affected property. Similarly, our other insurance, including our general liability insurance, may not provide adequate insurance to cover our losses.. Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments.. In March 2017, we entered a joint venture with a sovereign investor for one of our MOBs located in Boston, Massachusetts, and we may in the future acquire, develop or recapitalize properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities. Our participation in these joint ventures is subject to risks, including the following:. • we may share approval rights over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture;. • we may be required to contribute additional capital if our partners fail to fund their share of any required capital contributions;. • our joint venture partners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and that could affect our ability to lease or release the property, operate the property or maintain our qualification as a REIT;. • our joint venture partners may be subject to different laws or regulations than us, or may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, which could create conflicts of interest and/or affect our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;. • our ability to sell the interest on advantageous terms when we so desire may be limited or restricted under the terms of the applicable joint venture agreements; and. • disagreements with our joint venture partners could result in litigation or arbitration that could be expensive and distracting to management and could delay important decisions.. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act and certain similar state statutes, many commercial properties must meet specified requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with these laws. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages and costs to private litigants. These expenditures may have an adverse impact on our financial results and the value of our securities.. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all. 46. Table of Contents. of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weaknesses, in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our results of operations or our financial statements or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, adopted new accounting rules to be effective for fiscal years ending after December 2018, which will require companies to capitalize substantially all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. When the final rules are effective, many companies that account for certain leases on an \"off balance sheet\" basis will be required to account for such leases \"on balance sheet.\" This change will remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including the appearance of their credit quality and other factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. When the rules are effective, or as the effective date approaches, these rules could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets or some companies may decide to prefer property ownership to leasing. Such decisions by our current or prospective tenants may adversely impact our business and the value of our securities.. Risks Related to Our Relationships with RMR Inc., RMR LLC and Five Star. We are dependent upon RMR LLC to manage our business and implement our growth strategy.. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us by RMR LLC pursuant to our management agreements with RMR LLC. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR LLC and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to execute our growth strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR LLC's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR LLC or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. In the event RMR LLC is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR LLC under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase.. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with RMR LLC and RMR LLC's and its controlling shareholder's relationships with others may create conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, and may restrict our investment activities.. Our manager, RMR LLC, is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR LLC on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR LLC.. RMR LLC is a subsidiary of RMR Inc. Our Managing Trustee, Adam Portnoy, as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust, is the controlling shareholder of RMR Inc. and as the current sole Trustee of ABP Trust beneficially owns all the class A membership units of RMR LLC not owned by RMR Inc. Adam Portnoy is a managing director, president and chief executive officer of RMR Inc. and an officer of RMR LLC. Barry Portnoy was our other Managing Trustee and a director and an officer of RMR Inc. and an officer of RMR LLC until his death on February 25, 2018. RMR LLC or its subsidiary also acts as the manager for five other Nasdaq listed REITs: GOV, which primarily owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants and office properties in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area that may also be leased to private sector tenants; HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; ILPT, which primarily owns industrial and logistics properties; SIR, which primarily owns and invests in net leased, single tenant properties; and Tremont Mortgage Trust, or TRMT, which primarily originates and invests in first mortgage loans secured by middle market and transitional commercial real estate. RMR LLC also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including: Five Star, our largest tenant and the manager of our managed senior living communities; TA, which operates and franchises travel centers, convenience stores and restaurants; and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels, resorts and cruise ships. An affiliate of RMR LLC is an investment adviser to the RMR Real Estate Income Fund, or RIF, a closed end investment company listed on the NYSE American, which primarily invests in securities of REITs that are not managed by RMR LLC.. Each of our executive officers is also an officer of RMR LLC, including our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Richard W. Siedel, Jr., who is also the Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of ILPT. Because our executive officers have duties. 47. Table of Contents. to RMR LLC as well as to us and Richard W. Siedel, Jr. has duties to ILPT, we do not have their undivided attention. They may have conflicts in allocating their time and resources between us and RMR LLC and other companies to which RMR LLC provides services. Our Independent Trustees also serve as independent directors or independent trustees of other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiary provides management services. In addition to their investments in RMR Inc. and RMR LLC, our current and former Managing Trustees hold equity investments in other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services and some of these companies, including us, have significant cross ownership interests, including, for example: as of February 23, 2018, our Managing Trustee and Barry Portnoy, our former Managing Trustee, owned, directly or indirectly, in aggregate 1.3% of our outstanding common shares, 36.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock,1.5% of HPT's outstanding common shares, 1.8% of GOV's outstanding common shares, 1.9% of SIR's outstanding common shares; and 9.1% of RIF's outstanding common shares; we own 8.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock; GOV owns 27.8% of SIR's outstanding common shares; SIR owns 69.2% of ILPT's outstanding common shares; HPT owns 8.6% of TA's outstanding common shares; and Tremont Realty Advisors LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of RMR LLC, owns 19.2% of TRMT's outstanding common shares. Our executive officers may also own equity investments in other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiary provides management services. These multiple responsibilities, relationships and cross ownerships could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR LLC, Adam Portnoy and other RMR LLC personnel, including our executive officers, and give rise to conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR Inc., RMR LLC, our Managing Trustee, the other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services and their related parties. Conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares and other securities and we may be subject to increased risk of litigation as a result.. In our management agreements with RMR LLC, we acknowledge that RMR LLC may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to our policies and objectives and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR LLC. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR LLC or its subsidiary. We cannot assure that our Code of Conduct or our Governance Guidelines, or other procedural protections we adopt will be sufficient to enable us to identify, adequately address or mitigate actual or alleged conflicts of interest or ensure that our transactions with related persons are made on terms that are at least as favorable to us as those that would have been obtained with an unrelated person.. Our management agreements were not negotiated on an arm's length basis and their fee structure may not create proper incentives for RMR LLC, which may increase the risk of an investment in our common shares.. As a result of our relationships with RMR LLC, our management agreements were not negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties, and therefore the terms, including the fees payable to RMR LLC, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties. Our property management fees are calculated based on rents we receive and construction supervision fees for construction at our properties overseen and managed by RMR LLC, and our base business management fee is calculated based upon the lower of the historical costs of our real estate investments and our market capitalization. These fee arrangements could incentivize RMR LLC to pursue acquisitions, capital transactions, tenancies and construction projects or to avoid disposing of our assets in order to increase or maintain its management fees. If we do not effectively manage our investment, disposition, and capital transactions and leasing, construction and other property management activities, we may pay increased management fees without proportional benefits to us. In addition, we pay RMR LLC substantial base management fees regardless of our financial results. RMR LLC's entitlement to a base management fee might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive returns for us.. The termination of our management agreements may require us to pay a substantial termination fee, including in the case of a termination for unsatisfactory performance, which may limit our ability to end our relationship with RMR LLC.. The terms of our management agreements with RMR LLC automatically extend on December 31st of each year so that such terms thereafter end on the 20th anniversary of the date of the extension. We have the right to terminate these agreements: (1) at any time on 60 days' written notice for convenience, (2) immediately upon written notice for cause, as defined in the agreements, (3) on written notice given within 60 days after the end of any applicable calendar year for a performance reason, as defined in the agreements, and (4) by written notice during the 12 months following a manager change of control, as defined in the agreements. However, if we terminate a management agreement for convenience, or if RMR LLC terminates a management agreement with us for good reason, as defined in such agreement, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC a termination fee in an amount equal to the sum of the present values of the monthly future fees, as defined in the agreement, payable to RMR LLC for the then remaining term, which depending on the time of termination would be between 19 and 20 years. Additionally, if we terminate a management agreement for a performance reason, as defined in the agreement, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC the termination fee calculated as described above, but assuming a remaining term of 10 years. These provisions substantially increase the cost to us of terminating the management agreements without cause, which may limit our ability to end our relationship with. 48. Table of Contents. RMR LLC as our manager. The payment of the termination fee could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. Our management arrangements with RMR LLC may discourage a change of control of us.. Our management agreements with RMR LLC have continuing 20 year terms that renew annually. As noted in the preceding risk factor, if we terminate either of these management agreements other than for cause or upon a change of control of our manager, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC a substantial termination fee. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR LLC may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares.. Our business dealings with Five Star comprise a significant part of our business and operations and they may create conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts of interest.. Five Star was originally organized as our subsidiary. We distributed substantially all of our Five Star common shares to our shareholders on December 31, 2001. RMR LLC provides management services to both us and Five Star. Adam Portnoy, our Managing Trustee, as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust, is Five Star's largest stockholder, controlling, directly or indirectly, in aggregate 36.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock. Barry Portnoy served as a managing director of Five Star until his death on February 25, 2018. Five Star is our largest tenant and, as of December 31, 2017, Five Star leased 185 senior living communities from us and also managed 70 of our senior living communities. We recognized total rental income from Five Star of $210.5 million (including percentage rent of $5.5 million) and incurred management fees of $14.1 million with respect to the communities Five Star manages for us for the year ended December 31, 2017.. The historical and continuing relationships which we, RMR LLC and our Managing Trustee have with Five Star could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, the other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services and their related parties. As a result of these relationships, our agreements with Five Star were not negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties, and therefore the terms may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties. Conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares and other securities and we may be subject to increased risk of litigation as a result.. We may not realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of an interest in RMR Inc.. On June 5, 2015, we participated in a transaction with RMR Inc., RMR LLC, ABP Trust and three other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services in which, among other things, we acquired 5,272,787 shares of RMR Inc.'s class A common stock, ABP Trust acquired 2,345,000 of our common shares and we amended our management agreements with RMR LLC and extended them for continuing 20 year terms, or the Up-C Transaction. In December 2015, we distributed 2,635,379 of the shares of RMR Inc.'s class A common stock that we received in the Up-C Transaction pro rata to our shareholders. We believe the Up-C Transaction provided several benefits to us, including an attractive investment in the equity securities of RMR Inc., the further alignment of the interests of RMR LLC and Adam Portnoy with our interests and greater transparency for us and our shareholders into the compensation practices and financial and operating results of RMR LLC. However, our investment in RMR Inc. is subject to various risks, including the highly competitive nature of RMR LLC's business and the limited public market for RMR Inc.'s securities, among others, which may result in us losing some or all of our investment in RMR Inc. or otherwise not realizing the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction. For further information on the Up-C Transaction, see Note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction are among related persons, which increases the risk of allegations of conflicts of interest, and such allegations may impair our ability to realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction.. Because of the various relationships among us, GOV, RMR Inc., RMR LLC and the other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services, the Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction, including the amendment and extension of our management agreements for continuing 20 year terms, are among related persons. The Up-C Transaction and the terms thereof were negotiated and reviewed by a Joint Special Committee comprised solely of our Independent Trustees and the independent trustees of the other REITs to which RMR LLC then provided management services, or the Joint Special Committee, and were separately approved and adopted by our Independent Trustee who did not serve as an independent trustee of any of the other REITs, by a Special Committee of our Board of Trustees, comprised solely of our Independent Trustees, or our Special Committee, and by our Board of Trustees. Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC acted as financial advisor to the Joint Special Committee and Centerview Partners LLC acted as financial advisor to our Special Committee. Nonetheless, because of these various relationships, the Up-C Transaction was not negotiated on an arm's length basis among unrelated third parties, and therefore. 49. Table of Contents. may not be on terms as favorable to us or the other applicable REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services as it would have been if it was negotiated on an arm's length basis among unrelated parties. As a result of these relationships, we may be subject to increased risk that our shareholders or the shareholders of the other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services may challenge the Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction. Any such challenge could result in substantial costs and be a diversion to our management's attention, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and growth and could adversely affect our ability to realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction, whether or not the allegations have merit or are substantiated.. We may be at an increased risk for dissident shareholder activities due to perceived conflicts of interest arising from our management structure.. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with RMR Inc., RMR LLC, Five Star, AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services, Adam Portnoy and other related persons of RMR LLC may precipitate such activities. Certain proxy advisory firms which have significant influence over the voting by shareholders of public companies have, in the past, recommended, and in the future may recommend, that shareholders withhold votes for the election of our incumbent Trustees and vote against our say on pay vote or other management proposals. These recommendations may affect the outcome of our Board elections and impact our governance, which may increase shareholder activism and litigation. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, and diversion of our management's attention and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business.. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC.. We, ABP Trust, Five Star and four other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services each own 14.3% of AIC, and we have invested approximately $6.0 million in AIC. We and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined property insurance program arranged and insured and reinsured in part by AIC and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and contracts, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals.. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than RMR LLC and its affiliates (as defined under Maryland law) and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees from owning, directly and by attribution, more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares (whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to, among other purposes, assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, this provision may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to:. • the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control of us;. • limitations on shareholder voting rights with respect to certain actions that are not approved by our Board of Trustees;. • the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees;. 50. Table of Contents. • shareholder voting standards which require a supermajority for approval of certain actions;. • the fact that only our Board of Trustees or, if there are no Trustees, our officers, may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting;. • required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be \"Managing Trustees\" and other Trustees be \"Independent Trustees,\" as defined in our governing documents;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; and. • the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares.. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited.. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify any present or former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in those and certain other capacities. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in their best interest.. Disputes with Five Star or RMR LLC and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings.. Our contracts with Five Star and RMR LLC provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that certain disputes by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, other than disputes, or any portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our declaration of trust or bylaws, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation in courts against Five Star, RMR LLC or our Trustees and officers for disputes referred to arbitration in accordance with our bylaws. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding.. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our Trustees, officers, manager, agents or employees.. Our bylaws currently provide that, unless the dispute has been referred to binding arbitration, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for: (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (2) any action asserting a claim for breach of a duty owed by any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours to us or our shareholders; (3) any action asserting a claim against us or any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours arising pursuant. 51. Table of Contents. to Maryland law, our declaration of trust or bylaws brought by or on behalf of a shareholder; or (4) any action asserting a claim against us or any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our bylaws currently also provide that the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for any dispute, or portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our declaration of trust or bylaws. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in our shares of beneficial interest shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions of our bylaws, as they may be amended from time to time. These choice of forum provisions may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our Trustees, officers, manager, agents or employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our Trustees, officers, manager or agents.. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations.. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changes, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk.. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent shareholders from accumulating a large stake in us, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business.. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions.. Risks Related to Our Taxation. Our failure to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC could have significant adverse consequences.. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal or most state income taxes as long as we distribute all of our REIT taxable income and meet other qualifications set forth in the IRC. However, actual qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC depends on our satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed as a REIT under the IRC. However, we cannot be sure that the IRS, upon review or audit, will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the federal government, or any state or other taxation authority, will continue to afford favorable income tax treatment to REITs and their shareholders.. Maintaining our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC will require us to continue to satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments.. If we cease to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the market price of our common shares could decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying for taxation as a REIT for the next four taxable years.. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\". Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced federal income tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\" Distributions paid by REITs generally are not. 52. Table of Contents. treated as \"qualified dividends\" under the IRC and the reduced rates applicable to such dividends do not generally apply. However, for tax years beginning after 2017 and before 2026, REIT dividends paid to noncorporate shareholders are generally taxed at an effective tax rate lower than applicable ordinary income tax rates due to the availability of a deduction under the IRC for specified forms of income from passthrough entities. More favorable rates will nevertheless continue to apply to regular corporate \"qualified\" dividends, which may cause some investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common shares.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to specified adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, federal corporate income tax will not apply to the earnings that we distribute, but if we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, then we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, among other things, we may borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, and other taxes. Also, some jurisdictions may in the future limit or eliminate favorable income tax deductions, including the dividends paid deduction, which could increase our income tax expense. In addition, in order to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the IRC, prevent the recognition of particular types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to specified gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold or dispose of some of our assets and conduct some of our operations through our TRSs or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. In addition, while we intend that our transactions with our TRSs will be conducted on arm's length bases, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on a transaction that the IRS or a court determines was not conducted at arm's length. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. If arrangements involving our TRSs fail to comply as intended with the REIT qualification and taxation rules, we may fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC or be subject to significant penalty taxes.. We lease many of our properties to our TRSs pursuant to arrangements that, under the IRC, are intended to qualify the rents we receive from our TRSs as income that satisfies the REIT gross income tests. We also intend that our transactions with our TRSs be conducted on arm's length bases so that we and our TRSs will not be subject to penalty taxes under the IRC applicable to mispriced transactions. While relief provisions can sometimes excuse REIT gross income test failures, significant penalty taxes may still be imposed.. For our TRS arrangements to comply as intended with the REIT qualification and taxation rules under the IRC, a number of requirements must be satisfied, including:. •our TRSs may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a health care facility, as defined by the IRC;. • the leases to our TRSs must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not as service contracts, partnerships, joint ventures, financings or other types of arrangements;. • the leased properties must constitute qualified health care properties (including necessary or incidental property) under the IRC;. 53. Table of Contents. • our leased properties must be managed and operated on behalf of the TRSs by independent contractors who are less than 35% affiliated with us and who are actively engaged (or have affiliates so engaged) in the trade or business of managing and operating qualified health care properties for persons unrelated to us; and. • the rental and other terms of the leases must be arm's length.. We cannot be sure that the IRS or a court will agree with our assessment that our TRS arrangements comply as intended with REIT qualification and taxation rules. If arrangements involving our TRSs fail to comply as we intended, we may fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC or be subject to significant penalty taxes.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal, state, and local taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other taxation authorities. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our shareholders. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT or the tax consequences of such qualification.. In addition, December 2017 legislation has made substantial changes to the IRC. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate income tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other noncorporate taxpayers that generally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to \"sunset\" provisions, the elimination or modification of various deductions (including substantial limitation of the deduction for personal state and local taxes imposed on individuals), and preferential taxation of income derived by individuals from passthrough entities in comparison to earnings received directly by individuals. This legislation also imposes additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may in the future cause us to make additional distributions that will be taxable to our shareholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements.  The effect of these and other changes made in this legislation is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common shares and their indirect effect on the value of properties owned by us.  Furthermore, many of the provisions of the new law will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect.  There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us or our shareholders.  It is also possible that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the new law, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our shareholders.. Risks Related to Our Securities. Our distributions to our shareholders may decline.. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However:. • our ability to make or sustain the rate of distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occur;. • our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our credit facility and term loan agreements and may be subject to restrictions in future debt obligations we may incur; and. • the timing and amount of any distributions will be determined at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend on various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our financial condition, our results of operations, our liquidity, our capital requirements, our funds from operations, or FFO, our normalized funds from operations, or Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, general economic conditions in the United States, requirements under the IRC to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT and restrictions under the laws of Maryland.. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions to our shareholders.. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the value of our securities.. As with other publicly traded equity securities and REIT securities, the value of our common shares and other securities depends on various market conditions that are subject to change from time to time, including:. 54. Table of Contents. • the extent of investor interest in our securities;. • the general reputation of REITs and externally managed companies and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate based companies or by other issuers less sensitive to rises in interest rates;. • our underlying asset value;. • investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally;. • market interest rates;. • national economic conditions;. • changes in tax laws;. • changes in our credit ratings; and. • general market conditions.. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell equity securities of a REIT is the distribution rate, considered as a percentage of the price of the equity securities, relative to market interest rates. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time. There is a general market perception that REIT shares outperform in low interest rate environments and underperform in rising interest rate environments when compared to the broader market. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. If market interest rates continue to increase, or if there continues to be market expectation of such increases, prospective purchasers of REIT equity securities may want to achieve a higher distribution rate. Thus, higher market interest rates, or the expectation of higher interest rates, could cause the value of our securities to decline.. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders.. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, which may include secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, which may include common and preferred shares.. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the payment of all indebtedness and other liabilities and any preferred equity of our subsidiaries.. We are the sole obligor on our outstanding senior unsecured notes, and our outstanding senior unsecured notes and any notes or other debt securities we may issue in the future, or, together with our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the Notes, and such Notes are not, and any Notes we may issue in the future may not be guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on the Notes, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. The rights of holders of Notes to benefit from any of the assets of our subsidiaries are subject to the prior satisfaction of claims of our subsidiaries' creditors and any preferred equity holders. As a result, the Notes are, and, except to the extent that future Notes are guaranteed by our subsidiaries, will be, structurally subordinated to all of the debt and other liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries, including guarantees of other indebtedness of ours, payment obligations under lease agreements, trade payables and preferred equity. As of December 31, 2017, our subsidiaries had total indebtedness and other liabilities (excluding security and other deposits and guaranties) of $886.9 million.. The Notes are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness.. The outstanding Notes are not secured and any Notes we may issue in the future may not be secured. Upon any distribution to our creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceeding relating to us or our property, the holders of our secured debt will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and pursuant to the instruments governing such debt and to be paid in full from the assets securing that secured debt before any payment may be made. 55. Table of Contents. with respect to Notes that are not secured by those assets. In that event, because such Notes will not be secured by any of our assets, it is possible that there will be no assets from which claims of holders of such Notes can be satisfied or, if any assets remain, that the remaining assets will be insufficient to satisfy those claims in full. If the value of such remaining assets is less than the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Notes and accrued interest and all future debt ranking equally with such Notes, we will be unable to fully satisfy our obligations under such Notes. In addition, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured debt, the holders of that secured debt would be entitled to foreclose on our assets securing that secured debt and liquidate those assets. Accordingly, we may not have sufficient funds to pay amounts due on such Notes. As a result, noteholders may lose a portion or the entire value of their investment in such Notes. Further, the terms of the outstanding Notes permit, and the terms of any Notes we may issue in the future may permit, us to incur additional secured indebtedness subject to compliance with certain debt ratios. The Notes that are not secured will be effectively subordinated to any such additional secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had $805.4 million in secured debt, net of unamortized debt issuance costs, premiums and discounts.. There may be no public market for certain of the Notes, and one may not develop, be maintained or be liquid.. We have not applied for listing of certain of the Notes on any securities exchange or for quotation on any automatic dealer quotation system, and we may not do so for Notes issued in the future. We can give no assurances concerning the liquidity of any market that may develop for such Notes, the ability of any holder to sell such Notes or the price at which holders would be able to sell such Notes. If a market for such Notes does not develop, holders may be unable to resell such Notes for an extended period of time, if at all. If a market for such Notes does develop, it may not continue or it may not be sufficiently liquid to allow holders to resell such Notes. Consequently, holders of such Notes may not be able to liquidate their investment readily, and lenders may not readily accept such Notes as collateral for loans.. The Notes may trade at a discount from their initial issue price or principal amount, depending upon many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the ratings assigned by rating agencies, the market for similar securities and other factors, including general economic conditions and our financial condition, performance and prospects. Any decline in market prices, regardless of cause, may adversely affect the liquidity and trading markets for the Notes.. A downgrade in credit ratings could materially adversely affect the market price of the Notes and may increase our cost of capital.. The outstanding Notes are rated by two rating agencies and any Notes we may issue in the future may be rated by one or more rating agencies. These credit ratings are continually reviewed by rating agencies and may change at any time based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. Negative changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Notes and our costs and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.. Redemption may adversely affect noteholders' return on the Notes.. We have the right to redeem some or all of the outstanding Notes prior to maturity and may have such a right with respect to any Notes we issue in the future. We may redeem such Notes at times when prevailing interest rates may be relatively low compared to the interest rate of such Notes. Accordingly, noteholders may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as that of the Notes."
