[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to our Industry and Business Operations. Our business is subject to numerous global risks, including regulatory, political, economic, and military concerns and instability.. Our business, including our employees, customers, and suppliers, are located throughout the world. As a result, we are exposed to numerous global and local risks that could decrease revenue and/or increase expenses and therefore, decrease our profitability, including, without limitation:. • trade regulations, including customs, import, and export matters;. • tariffs, trade barriers and disputes;. • local employment costs, regulations, and conditions;. • difficulties with, and costs for, protecting our intellectual property;. • challenges in collecting accounts receivable;. • tax law and regulatory changes, including examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country, changes to the terms of income tax treaties, and difficulties in the tax-efficient repatriation of cash generated or held in a number of jurisdictions;. • natural disasters;. • instability in economic or political conditions, inflation, recession, actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, and potential impact due to the upcoming exit of the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") from the European Union (the \"E.U.\"); and. • impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements.. We have sizeable operations in China, including two principal manufacturing sites. In addition, approximately 15% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2017 was derived from sales to customers in China. Economic conditions in China have been and may continue to be volatile and uncertain. In addition, the legal and regulatory system in China is still developing and subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and transactions with customers in China could be adversely affected by changes to market conditions, changes to the regulatory environment, or interpretation of Chinese law.. Adverse conditions in the industries upon which we are dependent, including the automotive industry, have had, and may in the future have, adverse effects on our business.. We are dependent on end market dynamics to sell our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand in these markets. Periodic downturns in our customers' industries could significantly reduce demand for certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. Much of our business depends on, and is directly affected by, the global automobile industry. Sales in our automotive end markets accounted for approximately 62% of our total net revenue in fiscal year 2017. Adverse developments like those we have seen in past years in the automotive industry, including but not limited to declines in demand, customer bankruptcies, and increased demands on us for pricing decreases, could have adverse effects on our results of operations and could impact our liquidity and our ability to meet restrictive debt covenants. In addition, these same conditions could adversely impact certain of our vendors' financial solvency, resulting in potential liabilities or additional costs to us to ensure uninterrupted supply to our customers.. Continued pricing and other pressures from our customers may adversely affect our business.. Many of our customers, including automotive manufacturers and other industrial and commercial original equipment manufacturers (\"OEMs\"), have policies that require annual price reductions. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, the required price reductions will impact, and may have a material adverse effect on, our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our customers occasionally require engineering, design, or production changes. In some circumstances, we may be unable to cover the costs of these changes with. 13. Table of Contents. price increases. Further, as our customers grow larger, they may increasingly require us to provide them with our products on an exclusive basis, which could limit sales, cause an increase in the number of products we must carry and, consequently, increase our inventory levels and working capital requirements. Certain of our customers, particularly in the automotive industry, are increasingly requiring their suppliers to agree to their standard purchasing terms without deviation as a condition to engage in future business transactions. As a result, we may find it difficult to enter into agreements with such customers on terms that are commercially reasonable to us.. We operate in markets that are highly competitive, and competitive pressures could require us to lower our prices or result in reduced demand for our products.. We operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service, and/or price across the industries and markets we serve. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to manufacture high-quality products at best cost, particularly in markets where low-cost country-based suppliers, primarily in China with respect to the Sensing Solutions business, have entered the markets or increased their per-unit sales in these markets by delivering products at low costs to local OEMs. In addition, certain of our competitors in the automotive sensor market are influenced or controlled by major OEMs or suppliers, thereby limiting our access to these customers. Many of our customers also rely on us as their sole source of supply for many of the products that we have historically sold to them. These customers may choose to develop relationships with additional suppliers or elect to produce some or all of these products internally, primarily to reduce risk of delivery interruptions or as a means of extracting price reductions from us. Certain of our customers currently have, or may develop in the future, the capability to internally produce the products that we sell to them and may compete with us with respect to those and other products and with respect to other customers. Competitive pressures such as these, and others, could affect prices or customer demand for our products, negatively impacting our profit margins and/or resulting in a loss of market share.. Increasing costs for, or limitations on the supply of or access to, manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We use a broad range of manufactured components, subassemblies, and raw materials in the manufacture of our products, including those containing silver, gold, platinum, palladium, copper, aluminum, nickel, zinc, resins, and certain rare earth metals, which may experience significant volatility in their price and availability. We have entered into hedge arrangements in an attempt to minimize commodity pricing volatility and may continue to do so from time to time in the future. Such hedges might not be economically successful. In addition, these hedges do not qualify as accounting hedges in accordance with United States (\"U.S.\") generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, the change in fair value of these hedges is recognized in earnings immediately, which could cause volatility in our results of operations from quarter to quarter. Refer to Note 16, \"Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,\" of our audited consolidated financial statements, and Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,\" each included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of accounting for hedges of commodity prices, and an analysis of the sensitivity on pretax earnings of changes in the forward prices on these hedges, respectively.. The availability and price of raw materials and manufactured components may be subject to change due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, global economic or political events including strikes, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates, and prevailing price levels. It is generally difficult to pass increased prices for manufactured components and raw materials through to our customers in the form of price increases. Therefore, a significant increase in the price or a decrease in the availability of these items could materially increase our operating costs and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Natural disasters or other disasters outside of our control could cause significant business interruptions resulting in harm to our business operations and financial condition.. Our operations and those of our suppliers and customers, and the supply chains that support their operations, may potentially suffer interruptions caused by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, typhoons, or floods; or other disasters such as fires, explosions, disease, acts of terrorism or war that are outside of our control. If a business interruption occurs and we are unsuccessful in our continuing efforts to minimize the impact of these events, our business, results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Labor disruptions or increased labor costs could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 22,100 employees, of whom approximately 8% were located in the U.S. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 530 of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, in various countries, local law requires our participation in works councils.. 14. Table of Contents. A material labor disruption or work stoppage at one or more of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, work stoppages occur relatively frequently in the industries in which many of our customers operate, such as the automotive industry. If one or more of our larger customers were to experience a material work stoppage for any reason, that customer may halt or limit the purchase of our products. This could cause us to shut down production facilities relating to those products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition.. We may not realize all of the revenue or achieve anticipated gross margins from products subject to existing purchase orders or for which we are currently engaged in development.. Our ability to generate revenue from products pending customer awards is subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, including the number of products our customers will actually produce, as well as the timing of such production. Many of our customer agreements provide for supplying a certain share of the customer's requirements for a particular application or platform, rather than for manufacturing a specific quantity of products. In some cases, we have no remedy if a customer chooses to purchase less than we expect. In cases where customers do make minimum volume commitments to us, our remedy for their failure to meet those minimum volumes is limited to increased pricing on those products that the customer does purchase from us or renegotiating other contract terms. There is no assurance that such price increases or new terms will offset a shortfall in expected revenue. In addition, some of our customers may have the right to discontinue a program or replace us with another supplier under certain circumstances. As a result, products for which we are currently incurring development expenses may not be manufactured by customers at all, or may be manufactured in smaller amounts than currently anticipated. Therefore, our anticipated future revenue from products relating to existing customer awards or product development relationships may not result in firm orders from customers for the originally contracted amount. We also incur capital expenditures and other costs, and price our products, based on estimated production volumes. If actual production volumes were significantly lower than estimated, our anticipated revenue and gross margin from those new products would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the ultimate demand for our customers' products, nor can we predict the extent to which we would be able to pass through unanticipated per-unit cost increases to our customers.. We are dependent on market acceptance of our new product introductions and product innovations for future revenue.. Substantially all markets in which we operate are impacted by technological change or change in consumer tastes and preferences, which are rapid in certain end markets. Our operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually design, develop, introduce, and sell new and innovative products; to modify existing products; and to customize products to meet customer requirements driven by such change. There are numerous risks inherent in these processes, including the risk that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market profitable new products and applications before our competitors or in time to satisfy customer demands.. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise confidential information, and expose us to liability which could materially adversely impact our business and reputation.. Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations; compromise information belonging to us, our employees, customers, and suppliers; and expose us to liability that could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business, we rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. Additionally, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information and customer and employee data, and may have access to confidential or personal information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades. Despite our cybersecurity measures (including employee and third-party training, monitoring of networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems) that are continuously reviewed and upgraded, our information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to attacks by hackers, breaches, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, systems failures, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business. Further, to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss of, or damage to, our data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against the Company, and ultimately harm our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $3,312.5 million of gross outstanding indebtedness, including $927.8 million of indebtedness under the term loan (the \"Term Loan\") provided by the eighth amendment to the credit agreement dated as of May 12, 2011 (as amended, the \"Credit Agreement\"), $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.875% senior notes due 2023 issued under an indenture dated as of April 17, 2013 (the \"4.875% Senior Notes\"), $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2024 issued under an indenture dated as of October 14, 2014 (the \"5.625% Senior Notes\"), $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2025 issued under an indenture dated as of March 26, 2015 (the \"5.0% Senior Notes\"), $750.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due 2026 issued under an indenture dated as of November 27, 2015 (the \"6.25% Senior Notes\", and together with the 4.875% Senior Notes, the 5.625% Senior Notes, and the 5.0% Senior Notes, the \"Senior Notes\"), and $34.7 million of capital lease and other financing obligations. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors are not as highly-leveraged;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; or. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness if we do not maintain specified financial ratios or are not able to refinance our indebtedness as it comes due, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows for other purposes.. In addition, the senior secured credit facilities provided for under the Credit Agreement (the \"Senior Secured Credit Facilities\"), permit us to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and $1.0 billion in incremental facilities (the \"Accordion\") under which additional term loans may be issued or the capacity of the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased. As of December 31, 2017, we had $415.3 million available to us under the Revolving Credit Facility.. If we increase our indebtedness by borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility or incur other new indebtedness under the Accordion, the risks described above would increase. Refer to Note 8, \"Debt,\" of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our outstanding indebtedness.. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or future borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or from other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and/or repay our indebtedness when it becomes due, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including capital expenditures.. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. If we complete additional acquisitions, our debt service requirements could also increase. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments, and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit arrangements, including non-compliance attributable to events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.. The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain a senior secured net leverage ratio not to exceed 5.0:1.0 at the conclusion of certain periods when outstanding loans and letters of credit that are not cash collateralized for the full face amount thereof exceed 10% of the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, Sensata Technologies B.V. and its Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the Credit Agreement) are required to satisfy this covenant, on a pro forma basis, in connection with any new borrowings (including any letter of credit issuances) under the Revolving Credit Facility as of the time of such borrowings. Additionally, the Revolving Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes require us to comply with various operational and other covenants.. 16. Table of Contents. If we experienced an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to become due and payable immediately, which, in turn, would result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings if accelerated upon an event of default.. If, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance, or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, the Credit Agreement, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could: elect to terminate their commitments thereunder; cease making further loans; declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable; institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities; and prevent us from making payments on the Senior Notes. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we might not be able to repay our obligations in such an event.. Risks Related to Prior and Future Acquisitions and Divestitures. Integration of acquired companies, and any future acquisitions, joint ventures, and/or dispositions, may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs, or liabilities, and we may not realize all of the anticipated operating synergies and cost savings from acquisitions.. We have grown, and in the future we intend to continue to grow, by making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will perform as expected in the future. Any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition, and to finance those acquisitions. We also will face competition for suitable acquisition candidates, which may increase our costs. In addition, acquisitions or investments require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations. Furthermore, acquisitions of businesses or facilities entail a number of additional risks, including:. •problems with effective integration of operations;. •the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition customer, supplier, and employee relationships;. •increased operating costs; and. •exposure to unanticipated liabilities.. Subject to the terms of our indebtedness, we may finance future acquisitions with cash from operations, additional indebtedness, and/or by issuing additional equity securities. In addition, we could face financial risks associated with incurring additional indebtedness such as reducing our liquidity, limiting our access to financing markets, and increasing the amount of service on our debt. The availability of debt to finance future acquisitions may be restricted, and our ability to make future acquisitions may be limited.. There can be no assurance that any anticipated synergies or cost savings generated through acquisitions will be achieved or that they will be achieved in our estimated time frame. We may not be able to successfully integrate and streamline overlapping functions from future acquisitions, and integration may be more costly to accomplish than we expect. In addition, we could encounter difficulties in managing our combined company due to its increased size and scope.. Restructuring our business or divesting some of our businesses or product lines in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.. We continue to evaluate the strategic fit of specific businesses and products that may result in additional divestitures. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel; the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; the disruption of our business; and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing these or any other significant risks encountered.. We also may seek to restructure our business in the future by disposing of certain assets or by consolidating operations. There can be no assurance that any restructuring of our business will not adversely affect our financial position, leverage, or results of operations. In addition, any significant restructuring of our business will require significant managerial attention, which may be diverted from our other operations.. 17. Table of Contents. If the acquisitions of August Cayman Company, Inc. (\"Schrader\") and the acquired assets and subsidiaries of Custom Sensors & Technologies Ltd. (\"CST\") do not achieve their intended results, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The integrations of Schrader and CST into our operations are significant undertakings and continue to require attention from our management team. Actual synergies and the expenses required to realize these synergies could differ materially from our expectations, and we cannot assure you that these synergies will not have other adverse effects on our business. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions could result in increased costs or decreased revenue and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations.. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters. We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations, including changes in local government regulations and policies, exchange controls, and foreign exchange exposure, which could adversely impact the reported results of operations from our international businesses.. Our subsidiaries located outside of the U.S. generated approximately 65% of our net revenue in fiscal year 2017, and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total net revenue. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings.. A portion of our net revenue, expenses, receivables, and payables are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (\"USD\"). We are, therefore, subject to foreign currency risks and foreign exchange exposure. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and could affect our operating results. For financial reporting purposes, we, and each of our subsidiaries, operate under a USD functional currency because of the significant influence of USD on our operations. In certain instances, we enter into transactions that are denominated in a currency other than USD. At the date that such transaction is recognized, each asset, liability, revenue, expense, gain, or loss arising from the transaction is measured and recorded in USD using the exchange rate in effect at that date. At each balance sheet date, recorded monetary balances denominated in a currency other than USD are adjusted to USD using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, with gains or losses recorded in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations. During times of a weakening USD, our reported international sales and earnings may increase because the non-U.S. currency will translate into more USD. Conversely, during times of a strengthening USD, our reported international sales and earnings may decrease because the local currency will translate into fewer USD.. There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions and/or monetary and fiscal policies, intellectual property protection difficulties and disputes, the settlement of legal disputes through certain foreign legal systems, the collection of receivables, exposure to possible expropriation or other government actions, unsettled political conditions, and possible terrorist attacks. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and, therefore, on our business and results of operations.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), the United Kingdom's Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. The U.S. FCPA, the United Kingdom's Bribery Act, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows.. Export of our products is subject to various export control regulations and may require a license from either the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, or the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Any failure to comply with such regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, penalties, or other remedies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. We must comply with the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, International Traffic in Arms Regulation (\"ITAR\"), and the sanctions, regulations, and embargoes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (\"OFAC\"). Certain of our products that have military applications are on the munitions list of ITAR and require an individual validated license in order to be exported to certain jurisdictions. These restrictions also apply to technical data for design, development, production, use,. 18. Table of Contents. repair, and maintenance of such ITAR-controlled products. The export of ITAR-controlled products or technical data requires an individual validated license from the U.S. State Department's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls. Any delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, such licenses could result in a material reduction in revenue.. We export products that are subject to other export regulations. Any changes in these export regulations may further restrict the export of our products, and we may cease to be able to procure export licenses for our products under existing regulations. This area remains fluid in terms of regulatory developments. Should we need an export license under existing regulations, the length of time required by the licensing process can vary, potentially delaying the shipment of products and the recognition of the corresponding revenue. We have no control over the time it takes to process an export license. Any restriction on the export of a significant product line or a significant amount of our products could cause a significant reduction in revenue.. We have discovered in the past, and may discover in the future, deficiencies in our OFAC and ITAR compliance programs. Although we continue to enhance these compliance programs, we cannot assure you that any such enhancements will ensure that we are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations at all times, or that applicable authorities will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions, fines or penalties, criminal and/or civil proceedings, or other remedies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition.. Changes in existing environmental and/or safety laws, regulations, and programs could reduce demand for environmental and/or safety-related products, which could cause our revenue to decline.. A significant amount of our business is generated either directly or indirectly as a result of existing laws, regulations, and programs related to environmental protection, fuel economy, energy efficiency, and safety regulation. Accordingly, a relaxation or repeal of these laws and regulations, or changes in governmental policies regarding the funding, implementation, or enforcement of these programs, could result in a decline in demand for environmental and/or safety products, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue.. Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, government enforcement actions, and reputational risk.. We are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations in the various countries where we operate and where our products are sold. These laws and regulations govern, among other things:. •the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials;. •emissions or discharges of substances into the environment;. •investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites;. •greenhouse gas emissions;. •product hazardous material content; and. •the health and safety of our employees.. We may not have been, or we may not always be, in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, environmental and health and safety laws are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens.. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at their properties or properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigation, removal, and remediation costs under certain federal and state laws is retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances.. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows, or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury, property damage, and/or cleanup in the future based on our past, present, or future business activities.. 19. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by environmental, safety, and governmental regulations or concerns.. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries, as well as product performance standards established by quasi-governmental and industrial standards organizations. We cannot assure you that we have been, and will continue to be, in compliance with all of these requirements on account of circumstances or events that have occurred or exist but that we are unaware of, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements in excess of amounts we have accrued. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. These requirements may change in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have made, and may be required in the future to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to pending litigation raising various environmental and human health and safety claims. We cannot assure you that our costs to defend and/or settle these claims will not be material.. Our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling.. The E.U., China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from product disposal, use of hazardous materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include but are not limited to the E.U. Restriction of Hazardous Substances (\"RoHS\"), End of Life Vehicle (\"ELV\"), and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives; the E.U. Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (\"REACH\") regulation; and the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. These laws continue to proliferate and expand in these and other jurisdictions to address other materials and other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make the manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible, could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions, and could result in liability for product recalls, penalties, or other claims.. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our products and technology.. The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging infringement or invalidity of certain of our intellectual property rights, or that we will not have to pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the importance of the technology, product, patent, trademark, or trade secret in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows.. We may be subject to claims that our products or processes infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to pay unexpected litigation costs or damages, modify our products or processes, or prevent us from selling our products.. Third parties may claim that our processes and products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Whether or not these claims have merit, we may be subject to costly and time consuming legal proceedings, and this could divert management's attention from operating our business. If these claims are successfully asserted against us, we could be required to pay substantial damages, make future royalty payments, and/or could be prevented from selling some or all of our products. We also may be obligated to indemnify our business partners or customers in any such litigation. Furthermore, we may need to obtain licenses from these third parties or substantially re-engineer or rename our products in order to avoid infringement. In addition, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer or rename our products successfully. If we are prevented from selling some or all of our products, our sales could be materially adversely affected.. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, and recall claims that may be brought against us.. We have been, and may continue to be, exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability losses in the future and incur significant costs to defend these claims. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of the underlying end product, particularly if the defect or the alleged defect relates to product. 20. Table of Contents. safety. Depending on the terms under which we supply products, an OEM may hold us responsible for some or all of the repair or replacement costs of these products under warranty when the product supplied did not perform as represented. In addition, a product recall could generate substantial negative publicity about our business and interfere with our manufacturing plans and product delivery obligations as we seek to repair affected products. Our costs associated with product liability, warranty, and recall claims could be material.. We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows.. In the normal course of business, we are, from time to time, a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights, anti-competitive behavior, product liability, breach of contract, and employment-related claims. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and/or cash flows.. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may be required to recognize goodwill or intangible asset impairments, which would reduce our earnings.. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets, net totaled approximately $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2017, or 59% of our total assets. Goodwill, which represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized, was approximately $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2017, or 45% of our total assets. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were recognized at fair value as of the corresponding acquisition date. Impairment of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in laws or regulations, significant unexpected or planned changes in the use of assets, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge that is included in operating income, which may impact our ability to raise capital. Although no impairment charges have been recorded during the past three fiscal years, should certain assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units change, we may be required to recognize goodwill or other intangible asset impairments. Refer to Note 5, \"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,\" of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more details on our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, included in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the assumptions used in the development of the fair value of our reporting units.. New legislation on tax reform could have a material impact on the Company's financial position and/or results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, President Donald Trump signed into U.S. law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"Tax Reform\"). The exact ramifications of the legislation is subject to interpretation and could have a material impact on our financial position and/or results of operations. We continue to analyze the full impact of enacted legislation and additional guidance as provided. Refer to Note 9, \"Income Taxes,\" of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the Tax Reform.. Taxing authorities could challenge our historical and future tax positions or our allocation of taxable income among our subsidiaries, or tax laws to which we are subject could change in a manner adverse to us.. Sensata Technologies Holding N.V. is a Dutch public limited liability company that operates through various subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to tax laws, treaties, and regulations in the countries in which we operate, and these laws and treaties are subject to interpretation. We have taken, and will continue to take, tax positions based on our interpretation of such tax laws. There can be no assurance that a taxing authority will not have a different interpretation of applicable law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed with additional taxes, this may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. We conduct operations through manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. Our transfer pricing arrangements are not generally binding on applicable tax authorities. Our transfer pricing methodology is based on economic studies. The prices charged for products, services, and financing among our companies, or. 21. Table of Contents. the royalty rates and other amounts paid for intellectual property rights, could be challenged by the various tax authorities, resulting in additional tax liabilities, interest, and penalties.. Tax laws are subject to change in the various countries in which we operate. Such future changes could be unfavorable and result in an increased tax burden to us. Refer to Note 9, \"Income Taxes,\" of our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion related to income taxes.. Changes to current policies by the U.S. government could adversely affect our business.. Possible changes to current policies by the U.S. government could affect our business, including potentially through increased import tariffs and other influences on U.S. trade relations with other countries (e.g., Mexico and China). The imposition of tariffs or other trade barriers could increase our costs in certain markets, and may cause our customers to find alternative sourcing. In addition, other countries may change their own policies on business and foreign investment in companies in their respective countries. Additionally, it is possible that U.S. policy changes and uncertainty about such changes could increase market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations. Market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations could impact our results of operations and/or financial condition.. The vote by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union could adversely affect us.. The U.K. held a referendum on June 23, 2016 on its membership in the E.U., in which a majority of voters in the U.K. voted to exit the E.U. (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"). The U.K.'s departure from the E.U. is currently scheduled to take place on Friday, March 29, 2019. The U.K. and the E.U. continue to have negotiations regarding various transition issues and are in the process of creating a plan for a two-year transition period following the scheduled exit. Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate. The referendum also has given rise to calls for the governments of other E.U. member states to consider withdrawal from the E.U.. The effects of Brexit will depend on the negotiations between the U.K. and the E.U. and any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Brexit could adversely affect European or worldwide economic or market conditions and contribute to instability in global financial markets. We have substantial sales and operations in both the E.U. and the U.K. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, and/or financial condition.. Risks Related to our Domicile in the Netherlands. We are a Dutch public limited liability company, and it may be difficult for shareholders to obtain or enforce judgments against us in the U.S.. Sensata Technologies Holding, N.V. is incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands, and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside of the U.S. As a result, although we have appointed an agent for service of process in the U.S., it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to effect service of process upon us within the U.S. or to realize any judgment against us in the U.S., including for civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws. Therefore, any judgment obtained against us in any U.S. federal or state court may have to be enforced in the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, as applicable. Because there is no treaty or other applicable convention between the U.S. and the Netherlands with respect to the recognition and enforcement of legal judgments regarding civil or commercial matters, a judgment rendered by any U.S. federal or state court will not be enforced by the courts of the Netherlands unless the underlying claim is relitigated before a Dutch court. Under current practice, however, a Dutch court will generally grant the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim (i) if that judgment resulted from legal proceedings compatible with Dutch notions of due process, (ii) if that judgment does not contravene public policy of the Netherlands, and (iii) if the jurisdiction of the U.S. federal or state court has been based on internationally accepted principles of private international law.. To date, we are aware of only limited published case law in which Dutch courts have considered whether such a judgment rendered by a U.S. federal or state court would be enforceable in the Netherlands. In all of these cases, Dutch lower courts applied the aforementioned criteria with respect to the U.S. judgment. If all three criteria noted above were satisfied, the Dutch courts granted the same judgment without a review of the merits of the underlying claim.. Investors should not assume, however, that the courts of the Netherlands, or such other foreign jurisdiction, would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws, or that such courts would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us predicated solely upon such laws.. 22. Table of Contents. Our shareholders' rights and responsibilities are governed by Dutch law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law, and shareholder rights under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as shareholder rights are established under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions.. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our Board of Directors under Dutch law may not be as clearly established as under the laws of some U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our Board of Directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company and our business, including our shareholders, our employees, and other stakeholders, in all cases with reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of our shareholders.. In addition, the rights of holders of ordinary shares, and many of the rights of shareholders as they relate to, for example, the exercise of shareholder rights, are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. For example, Dutch law does not grant appraisal rights to a company's shareholders who wish to challenge the consideration to be paid upon a merger or consolidation of the company.. The provisions of Dutch corporate law and our articles of association have the effect of concentrating control over certain corporate decisions and transactions in the hands of our Board of Directors. As a result, holders of our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by members of our Board of Directors than if we were incorporated in the U.S."
