[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. As with any business, the Company's business and operations involve risks and uncertainties.  In addition to the other discussions in this report, particularly those under the headings \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation\" below and \"Forward-Looking Statements\" above, the following factors should be considered:.   Our recent restructurings may not be as effective as we anticipate and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings.. Between 2013 and 2017, we engaged in various restructuring activities.  These activities have required the devotion of significant resources and management attention and may pose significant risks. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to effectively reduce overhead, rationalize manufacturing capacity, and effectively produce products at the consolidated facilities. Furthermore, our restructurings may not be as effective as we anticipated, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expected from these restructurings..   The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuation may negatively affect our results.. We report the results of our foreign operations in the applicable local currency and then translate those results into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. The applicable exchange rates between and among foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations have impacted our results of operations in recent periods as discussed below in more detail under the headings \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.\" Such currency exchange rate volatility may also adversely impact our financial condition or liquidity. While we may use forward exchange contracts and foreign currency denominated debt to manage our exposure to foreign exchange risk, such risk management strategies may not be effective and our results of operations could be adversely affected..   In some product lines, most of our sales are made to a relatively small number of customers; if we lose any of those customers, sales and operating results could decline.. In some of our product lines, our sales are concentrated to a small number of customers.  While we do not currently have any single customer that we consider to be significant to us as a whole, the loss of a significant customer for a particular product line could substantially affect the sales and profitability of that line or the business unit that sells that product line, which may cause us to re-evaluate that line.  Those developments could affect our results.  In addition, the financial condition of our customers may adversely affect their ability to buy from us, or to pay for products that they have already purchased..   Many of our products are used in items for human consumption and contact.  We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our profitability and corporate image.. We sell flavors, fragrances, and colors that are used in foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, nutraceuticals, and other items for human consumption or contact.  These products involve risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering, product defects, and other adulteration.  We may be subject to liability if the consumption or use of our products cause product damage, injury, illness, or death.  In addition, we or our customers may need to recall products in the event of contamination or damage.. A significant product defect, product recall, or product liability judgment may negatively impact our profitability for a period of time depending on publicity, product availability, scope, competitive reaction, and consumer attitudes.  Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness, injury, or death could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate image..   Consolidation has resulted in customers with increased buying power, which can affect our profitability.. Many of our customers have consolidated in recent years and we expect the combination trend to continue.  These consolidations have often produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of resisting price increases.  If the larger size or greater buying power of those customers results in additional negotiating strength, the prices we are able to charge could be negatively affected and our profitability could decline..   Intense competition may result in reduced sales and profitability.. The industries and markets in which we operate are highly competitive.  That competition can reduce both our sales and the prices at which we are able to sell our products, which can negatively affect our profitability.. 7. Index.   Our sales and profitability are affected by changing consumer preferences, changing technologies, and our customers' ability to make and sell to consumers in highly competitive markets.. Although we do not generally make or sell proprietary consumer products, many of our products are sold to companies that develop and market consumer products.  Sales of flavors, fragrances, colors, inks, cosmetic ingredients, and many of our other products depend in part upon our customers' ability to create and sell products to consumers in highly competitive markets, all of which are beyond our control.  Our sales could also be affected by changing technologies that could impact consumer demand for products that contain our products.  Therefore, we depend upon our customers' ability to create markets for the consumer products that incorporate the products that we manufacture. In addition, if we cannot adequately anticipate and respond to the needs of our customers as they evolve in response to changing consumer preferences and technologies, our results of operations could be adversely affected..   If we do not maintain an efficient cost structure, our profitability could decrease.. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain an efficient cost structure.  We regularly initiate cost-reduction measures that could impact our manufacturing, sales, operations, and information systems functions.  If we do not continue to manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies, or we do not successfully implement related strategies, our competitiveness and our profits could decrease..   Commodity, energy, and transportation price volatility and increases or material shortages may reduce our profits.. We use many different commodities as raw ingredients.  We also use raw materials whose production is energy intensive.  In addition, various energy sources are used in our production and distribution processes. Commodity and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and transportation disruption, world events, and changes in governmental regulations.  Commodity and energy price increases will raise both our raw material costs and operating costs.  We may not be able to increase our product prices enough to offset these increased costs.  Increasing our prices also may reduce sales volume and related profitability.. In addition, we obtain some raw materials from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers.  Problems with those suppliers could affect the availability of those materials.  Even if there are multiple suppliers of a particular raw material, there are occasionally shortages.  An unavailability or shortage of a raw material could negatively affect our operations using that raw material and thus adversely affect our results..   There are an enormous number of laws and regulations applicable to our industries.  Compliance with these legal requirements is costly to us and can affect our operations.  Failure to comply could also be costly and disruptive.. Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations relating to the environment, health, safety, and the content, processing, packaging, storage, distribution, quality, and safety of food, drugs, cosmetics, other consumer products, specialty inks, and industrial colors.  These laws and regulations are administered in the United States by the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Labor, and other federal and state governmental agencies.  We are subject to similar governmental regulation and oversight abroad.  Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and affect our operations.  Also, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil and criminal remedies, fines, and recalls of our products.  Our customers, particularly those in the pharmaceutical industry, are also subject to laws and regulations that may impose costs on, or create risk for, us..   Environmental compliance may be costly to us.. Our operations are subject to extensive and stringent laws and regulations which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment, handling of materials, and disposition of wastes and air emissions.  These rules operate or will operate at both the federal and state levels in the United States, and there are analogous laws at most of our overseas locations.  Environmental regulations, and the potential failure to comply with them, can have serious consequences, including the costs of compliance and defense; interference with our operations or the ability to obtain required permits; civil, criminal, and administrative penalties; and negative publicity.. 8. Index.   Operating in foreign countries and emerging markets exposes us to increased risks, including economic, political, and international operation risks.. We operate, manufacture, and sell our products in many foreign countries and emerging markets.  This subjects us to risks that could materially impact our operating results, including: difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel in diverse cultures; transportation delays or interruptions; and the effects of international political developments and political and economic instability.  In addition, changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments could negatively affect our operating results due to changes in duties, tariffs, trade regulations, taxes, or limitations on currency or fund transfers.. Additionally, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". As a result of the referendum, the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s future relationship with the European Union. Although it is unknown what the final terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and European Union countries, increased regulatory complexities, and economic uncertainties in the region. These changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results..   We depend on certain key personnel, and the loss of these persons may harm our business.. Our success depends in large part on the continued service and availability of our key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain qualified new personnel.  The competition for these individuals can be significant, and the loss of key employees could harm our business.  In addition, we need to provide for smooth transitions when replacing key management and technical personnel positions.  Our operations and results may be negatively affected if we are not able to do so..   We may not successfully complete and integrate past and future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We have acquired many companies and operations in the past and may continue growth by acquisition in the future.  Our future growth through acquisitions could involve significant risks that may have a material adverse effect on us.  We may also be at risk for factors associated with acquisitions that the Company has made in the past.  Acquired companies may also have significant latent liabilities that may not be discovered before an acquisition or fully reflected in the price we pay.. We may also need to finance future acquisitions, and the terms of any financing, and the need to ultimately repay or refinance any indebtedness, may have negative effects on us.  Acquisitions also could have a dilutive effect on our financial results.  Acquisitions also generally result in goodwill, which would need to be written off against earnings in the future if it becomes impaired..   Our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade our information technology systems, and to effectively respond to failures, disruptions, compromises, or breaches of our information technology systems, may affect our competitiveness and our profits could decrease.. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain a current information technology platform for our business to operate.  We routinely review and upgrade our information technology and cybersecurity systems in order to better manage, report, and protect the information related to our sales, manufacturing, and other operations.  If we do not continue to maintain our information technology and cybersecurity platforms and successfully implement upgrades to systems, our competitiveness and profits could decrease.  Furthermore, our information technology systems may be susceptible to failures, disruptions, breaches, theft, and other similar cybersecurity events.  The impact of any such event and the effectiveness of our response thereto may adversely affect our operations and subject us to increased operating costs..   World events and natural disasters are beyond our control and could affect our results.. World events can adversely affect national, international, and local economies.  Economies can also be affected by conflicts, natural disasters, epidemics, or other catastrophic events.  Such events and conditions, as well as uncertainty or impairment of financial markets, have adversely affected and could continue to affect our revenues and profitability, particularly if they occur in locations in which we or our customers have significant operations. In addition, while we have manufacturing facilities throughout the world, certain of our facilities are the sole manufacturer of a specific product and a disruption in manufacturing could lead to increased costs of relocating or replacing the production of a product, or reformulating a product, which could have an adverse effect on our results..   Our ability to efficiently manage inventory may not be as effective as we anticipate and may adversely impact our performance.. Efficient inventory management is essential to our performance.  We must maintain appropriate inventory levels and product mix to meet customer demand, without incurring costs related to storing and holding excess inventory. If our inventory management decisions do not accurately predict demand or otherwise result in excess inventory, our financial results may be adversely impacted by markdowns, impairment charges, or other costs related to disposal of excess or obsolete inventory.. 9. Index.   We could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations.. Our business is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in other countries where we operate.  While the Company maintains robust policies to prevent violations of these laws and to monitor third party risks, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws is expensive and could negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Under these laws companies may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by their directors, officers, employees, agents, or other representatives. We could be subject to substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties if we or any of our representatives fail to comply with these laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation..   Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights is key to our performance.. We protect our intellectual property rights as trade secrets, through patents, and under confidentiality agreements. We could incur significant costs in asserting our intellectual property rights or defending ourselves from third party intellectual property claims. The laws of some of the countries in which we operate do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could have an adverse impact on our business."
