[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors are important to understanding the contents of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and of other reports. Our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones relevant to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The risk factors generally have been separated into four groups: risks related to our businesses and industries, risks related to our substantial indebtedness, risks related to our common stock and risks related to the spin-off of American Home Shield.. The materialization of any risks and uncertainties set forth below or identified in Forward-Looking Statements contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC or those that are presently unforeseen could result in significant adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -   Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" below.. Risks Related to Our Businesses and Our Industries. Our industries are highly competitive. Competition could reduce our share and adversely affect our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We operate in highly competitive industries. Changes in the source and intensity of competition in the industries served by us impact the demand for our services and may also result in additional pricing pressure. Regional and local competitors operating in a limited geographic area may have lower labor, employee benefits and overhead costs than us. The principal methods of competition in our businesses include customer service, brand reputation, fairness of contract terms, including price, and timely response to service claims. We may be unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and the competitive pressures that we face may result in reduced share, reduced pricing or an adverse impact to our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Weakening general economic conditions, especially as they may affect home sales, unemployment or consumer confidence or spending levels, may adversely impact our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our results of operations are dependent upon consumer spending. Deterioration in general economic conditions and consumer confidence, particularly in California, Texas and Florida, which collectively represented approximately one-third of our revenue in 2017, could affect the demand for our services. Consumer spending and confidence tend to decline during times of declining economic conditions. A worsening of macroeconomic indicators, including weak home sales, higher home foreclosures, declining consumer confidence or rising unemployment rates, could adversely affect consumer spending levels, reduce demand for our services and adversely impact our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not successfully implement our business strategies, including achieving our growth objectives.. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part within the expected time frames, the anticipated benefits of various growth or other initiatives. Our business strategies and initiatives, including growth of our customer base, introduction of new service and product offerings, geographic or segment expansion and enhancement of profitability, are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control.. We will incur certain costs to achieve efficiency improvements and growth in our businesses, and we may not meet anticipated implementation timetables or stay within budgeted costs. As these efficiency improvement and growth initiatives are implemented, we may not fully achieve expected cost savings and efficiency improvements or growth rates, or these initiatives could adversely impact customer retention or our operations. Also, our business strategies may change in light of our ability to implement new business initiatives, competitive pressures, economic uncertainties or developments or other factors.. Adverse credit and financial market events and conditions could, among other things, impede access to or increase the cost of financing, which could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Disruptions in credit or financial markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase our cost of obtaining, financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our proposed indebtedness, or cause the proposed lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and not give technical or other waivers under credit facility or other agreements to the extent we may seek them in the future, thereby causing us to be in default. Market changes in the real estate segment could also affect the demand for. 13. Table of Contents. our services as home buyers elect not to purchase our services, which could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Weather conditions and seasonality affect the demand for our services and our results of operations and cash flows.. The demand for our services and our results of operations are affected by weather conditions, including, without limitation, potential impacts, if any, from climate change, known and unknown, and by the seasonal nature of our termite and pest control services, home inspection services and disaster restoration services. Adverse weather conditions (e.g., cooler temperatures or droughts), whether created by climate change factors or otherwise, can impede the development of termite swarms and lead to lower demand for our termite control services. Extreme temperatures can lead to an increase in service requests related to household systems, particularly HVAC systems, resulting in higher claim frequency and costs and lower profitability, while mild temperatures in the winters or summers can lead to lower household systems claim frequency. For example, in the third quarter of 2016, we experienced an increase in contract claims cost driven by a higher number of HVAC work orders driven by higher summer temperatures. Extreme or unpredictable weather conditions could materially adversely impact our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Increases in raw material prices, fuel prices and other operating costs could adversely impact our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by increases in the level of our operating expenses, such as fuel, chemicals, refrigerants, appliances and equipment, parts, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, health care, vehicle maintenance, contractor costs, self - insurance costs and other insurance premiums, as well as various regulatory compliance costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary pressures.. Fuel prices are subject to market volatility. Our fleet has been negatively impacted by significant increases in fuel prices in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future. Previous increases in fuel prices increased our costs of operating vehicles and equipment. Although fuel prices remained relatively low during 2017, there can be no assurances that rates will not return to historical levels. We cannot predict what effect global events could have on fuel prices, but it is possible that such events could lead to higher fuel prices. Although we hedge a significant portion of our fuel costs, we do not hedge all of those costs. We expect to use approximately 13 million gallons of fuel in 2018. As of December 31, 2017, a 10 percent change in fuel prices would result in a change of approximately $3 million in our annual fuel cost before considering the impact of fuel swap contracts. Fuel price increases can also result in increases in the cost of chemicals and other materials used in our businesses. We cannot predict the extent to which we may experience future increases in costs of fuel, chemicals, refrigerants, appliances and equipment, parts, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, health care, vehicle maintenance, contractor costs, self - insurance costs and other insurance premiums, as well as various regulatory compliance costs and other operating costs. To the extent such costs increase, we may be prevented, in whole or in part, from passing these cost increases through to our existing and prospective customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified key executives or transition smoothly to new leadership, which could adversely impact us and our businesses and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. The execution of our business strategy and our financial performance will continue to depend in significant part on our executive management team and other key management personnel. Any inability to attract in a timely manner other qualified key executives, retain our leadership team and recruit other important personnel could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Compliance with, or violation of, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws pertaining to the use of pesticides, could result in significant costs that adversely impact our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. International, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters affect us in several ways. In the United States, products containing pesticides generally must be registered with the EPA, and similar state agencies before they can be sold or applied. The failure to obtain or the cancellation of any such registration, or the withdrawal from the marketplace of such pesticides, could have an adverse effect on our businesses, the severity of which would depend on the products involved, whether other products could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected. The pesticides we use are manufactured by independent third parties and are evaluated by the EPA as part of its ongoing exposure risk assessment. The EPA may decide that a pesticide we use will be limited or will not be re - registered for use in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of the EPA's continuing evaluations.. In addition, the use of certain pesticide products is regulated by various international, federal, state, provincial and local environmental and public health agencies. Although we strive to comply with such laws and regulations and have processes in place designed to achieve compliance, given our dispersed locations, distributed operations and numerous associates, we may be unable to prevent violations of these or other laws and regulations from occurring. Even if we are able to comply with all such laws and regulations and obtain all necessary registrations and licenses, the pesticides or other products we apply or use, or the manner in which we apply or use them, could be alleged to cause injury to the environment, to people or to animals, or such products could be banned in certain circumstances. The laws and regulations may also apply to third - party vendors who are hired to repair or remediate property. 14. Table of Contents. and who may fail to comply with environmental laws, health and safety laws and regulations and subject us to risk of legal exposure. The costs of compliance, non - compliance, investigation, remediation, combating reputational harm or defending civil or criminal proceedings, products liability, personal injury or other lawsuits could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. International, federal, state, provincial and local agencies regulate the disposal, handling and storage of waste, discharges from our facilities and the investigation and clean - up of contaminated sites. We could incur significant costs, including investigation and clean - up costs, fines, penalties and civil or criminal sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, these laws and regulations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future.. On January 20, 2017, Terminix International USVI, LLC (\"TMX USVI\") and The Terminix International Company Limited Partnership (\"TMX LP\"), each an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a revised Plea Agreement (the \"Plea Agreement\") in connection with the investigation initiated by the United States Department of Justice Environmental Crimes Section (the \"DOJ\") into allegations that a local Terminix branch used methyl bromide as a fumigant at a resort in St. John, U.S. Virgin Islands. The Plea Agreement was intended to resolve four misdemeanor charges of violations of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act related to improper applications of methyl bromide. At a hearing on November 20, 2017, TMX USVI and TMX LP were sentenced for pleading guilty to four misdemeanor charges of violations of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act related to improper applications of methyl bromide. Under the terms of sentencing handed down (i) TMX USVI and TMX LP each paid a fine of $4.6 million (total of $9.2 million); (ii) TMX USVI and TMX LP paid a total of $1.2 million to the EPA for costs incurred by the EPA for the response and clean-up of the affected units at the resort in St. John; and (iii) both TMX USVI and TMX LP will serve a five-year probation period. In lieu of the $1 million community service payment that was proposed in the Plea Agreement, the court required TMX USVI and TMX LP to provide for training certification courses with respect to pesticide application and safety in the U.S. Virgin Islands over the next five years. We have recorded a $0.5 million charge for this training program.. The Company has previously recorded within Fumigation related matters in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income total charges of $10 million in connection with the aforementioned criminal matter as of December 31, 2016. As a result of the sentencing, we have recorded an additional $0.9 million in charges in the fourth quarter of 2017.. On December 16, 2016, the U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Justice filed a civil complaint in the Superior Court of the Virgin Islands related to the aforementioned fumigation incident in a matter styled Government of the United States Virgin Islands v. The ServiceMaster Company, LLC, The Terminix International Company Limited Partnership, and Terminix International USVI, LLC. The amount and extent of any further potential penalties, fines, sanctions, costs and damages that the federal or other governmental authorities may yet impose, investigation or other costs and reputational harm, as well as the impact of any additional civil, criminal or other claims or judicial, administrative or regulatory proceedings resulting from or related to the U.S. Virgin Islands matter, which could be material, is not currently known, and any such further penalties, fines, sanctions, costs or damages would not be covered under the Company's general liability insurance policies.. Public perceptions that the products we use and the services we deliver are not environmentally friendly or safe may adversely impact the demand for our services.. In providing our services, we use, among other things, pesticides and other chemicals. Public perception that the products we use and the services we deliver are not environmentally friendly or safe or are harmful to humans or animals, whether justified or not, or our improper application of these chemicals, could reduce demand for our services, increase regulation or government restrictions or actions, result in fines or penalties, impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Laws and government regulations applicable to our businesses and lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities could increase our legal and regulatory expenses, and impact our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our businesses are subject to significant international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include laws relating to consumer protection, home warranties, real estate, wage and hour requirements, franchising, the employment of immigrants, labor relations, permitting and licensing, building code requirements, workers' safety, the environment, insurance coverages, sales tax collection and remittance, employee benefits, marketing (including, without limitation, telemarketing) and advertising, the application and use of pesticides and other chemicals. In particular, we anticipate that various international, federal, state, provincial and local governing bodies may propose additional legislation and regulation that may be detrimental to our businesses or may substantially increase our operating costs, including increases in the minimum wage; environmental regulations related to chemical use, climate change, equipment efficiency standards, refrigerant production and use and other environmental matters; health care coverage; or \"do - not - call\" or other marketing regulations. While we do not consider ourselves to be an insurance company, the IRS or state agencies could deem us to be taxed as such, which could impact the timing of our tax payments.. 15. Table of Contents. In addition, new federal tax legislation was enacted in December 2017. This legislation made significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, many of which are highly complex and may require interpretations and implementing regulations. As a result, we may incur meaningful expenses (including professional fees) as the new legislation is implemented. The expected impact of certain aspects of the legislation is unclear and subject to change.. We are also subject to various consumer protection laws and subject to receiving inquiries or investigative demands by regulatory bodies, including the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and state attorneys general and other state agencies. It is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our businesses and changes to such requirements may adversely affect our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we were to fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages, be involved in lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities, suffer harm to our reputation, suffer the loss of licenses or incur penalties that may affect how our businesses are operated, which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We are dependent on labor availability at our customer care centers and branches.. Our ability to conduct our operations is in part affected by our ability to increase our labor force, including on a seasonal basis at our customer care centers, which may be adversely affected by a number of factors. In the event of a labor shortage, we could experience difficulty in responding to customer calls in a timely fashion or delivering our services in a high - quality or timely manner, and could be forced to increase wages to attract and retain associates, which would result in higher operating costs and reduced profitability. Long wait times by customers during peak operating times could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. New decisions and rules by the National Labor Relations Board, including \"expedited elections\" and restrictions on appeals, could lead to increased organizing activities at our subsidiaries or franchisees. If these labor organizing activities were successful, it could further increase labor costs, decrease operating efficiency and productivity in the future, or otherwise disrupt or negatively impact our operations. In addition, potential competition from key associates who leave ServiceMaster could impact our ability to maintain our segment share in certain geographic areas.. Our franchisees, subcontractors, third - party distributors and vendors could take actions that could harm our businesses.. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, $143 million and $135 million, respectively, of our consolidated revenue was received in the form of franchise revenues. Accordingly, our financial results are dependent in part upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. Our franchisees, subcontractors, third - party distributors and vendors are contractually obligated to operate their businesses in accordance with the standards set forth in our agreements with them. Each franchising brand also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees, subcontractors, third - party distributors and vendors are independent third parties that we do not control, and who own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their businesses. As a result, the ultimate success of any franchise operation rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments to us will be adversely affected and our brands' image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, if third - party distributors, subcontractors, vendors and franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required laws, standards and regulations, we could be subject to claims from regulators or legal claims for the actions or omissions of such third - party distributors, subcontractors, vendors and franchisees. In addition, our relationship with our franchisees, third - party distributors, subcontractors and vendors could become strained (including resulting in litigation) as we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the existing required standards. These strains in our relationships or claims could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time, we receive communications from our franchisees regarding complaints, disputes or questions about our practices and standards in relation to our franchised operations and certain economic terms of our franchise arrangements. If franchisees or groups representing franchisees were to bring legal proceedings against us, we would vigorously defend against the claims in any such proceeding, but our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted and the price of our common stock could decline.. Disruptions or failures in our information technology systems could create liability for us or limit our ability to effectively monitor, operate and control our operations and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor, operate and control our operations. Changes or modifications to our information technology systems could cause disruption to our operations or cause challenges with respect to our compliance with laws, regulations or other applicable standards. As the development and implementation of our information technology systems (including our operating systems) evolve, we may elect to modify, replace or abandon certain technology initiatives, which could result in write - downs.. Any disruption in our information technology systems, including capacity limitations, instabilities, or failure to operate as expected, could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, including by limiting our capacity to monitor, operate and control our operations effectively. Failures of our. 16. Table of Contents. information technology systems could also lead to violations of privacy laws, regulations, trade guidelines or practices related to our customers and associates. If our disaster recovery plans do not work as anticipated, or if the third - party vendors to which we have outsourced certain information technology, contact center or other services fail to fulfill their obligations to us, our operations may be adversely affected, and any of these circumstances could adversely affect our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in the services we deliver or the products we use could affect our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and our future plans.. Our financial performance is affected by changes in the services and products we offer to customers. There can be no assurance that our strategies or product offerings will succeed in increasing revenue and growing profitability. An unsuccessful execution of strategies, including the rollout or adjustment of our new services or products or sales and marketing plans, could cause us to reevaluate or change our business strategies and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, associates and third parties, we could be subject to interruption of our business operations, private litigation, reputational damage and costly penalties.. We rely on, among other things, commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information of customers, associates and third parties, such as payment cards and personal information. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are central to meeting standards set by the payment card industry (\"PCI\"). We continue to evaluate and modify these systems and protocols for PCI compliance purposes, and such PCI standards may change from time to time. Activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of these systems. Any compromises, breaches or errors in applications related to these systems or failures to comply with standards set by the PCI could cause damage to our reputation and interruptions in our operations, including customers' ability to pay for services and products by credit card or their willingness to purchase our services and products and could result in a violation of applicable laws, regulations, orders, industry standards or agreements and subject us to costs, penalties and liabilities. We are subject to risks caused by data breaches and operational disruptions, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists. The frequency of data breaches of companies and governments have increased in recent years as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our businesses.. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to proprietary information, service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names, ServiceMaster, Terminix, American Home Shield, ServiceMaster Restore, ServiceMaster Clean, Merry Maids, Furniture Medic and AmeriSpec. We have not sought to register or protect every one of our marks either in the United States or in every country in which they are or may be used. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and intellectual property rights, including brand names, it could cause a material adverse impact on our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or activities infringe their intellectual property rights.. Future acquisitions or other strategic transactions could negatively affect our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may pursue strategic transactions in the future, which could involve acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets such as our previously announced intention to spin off our American Home Shield business to our stockholders. Any future strategic transaction could involve integration or implementation challenges, business disruption or other risks, or change our business profile significantly. Any inability on our part to consolidate and manage growth from acquired businesses or successfully implement other strategic transactions could have an adverse impact on our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any acquisition that we make may not provide us with the benefits that were anticipated when entering into such acquisition. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses, including the diversion of resources needed to integrate new businesses, technologies, products, personnel or systems; the inability to retain associates, customers and suppliers; the assumption of actual or contingent liabilities (including those relating to the environment); failure to effectively and timely adopt and adhere to our internal control processes and other policies; write - offs or impairment charges relating to goodwill and other intangible assets; unanticipated liabilities relating to acquired businesses; and potential expense associated with litigation with sellers of such businesses. Any future disposition transactions could also impact our businesses and may subject us to various risks, including failure to obtain appropriate value for the disposed businesses, post - closing claims being levied against us and disruption to our other businesses during the sale process or thereafter.. 17. Table of Contents. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges.. We have significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, such as trade names. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized and are subject to assessment for impairment by applying a fair - value based test annually, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant adverse changes in the business climate, including economic or financial conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant adverse changes in expected operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse actions or assessments by regulators;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated competition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of key personnel; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta current expectation that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit or intangible asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of.. Based upon future economic and financial market conditions, the operating performance of our reporting units and other factors, including those listed above, we may incur impairment charges in the future. It is possible that such impairment, if required, could be material. Any future impairment charges that we are required to record could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We are subject to various restrictive covenants that could materially adversely impact our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time, we enter into noncompetition agreements or other restrictive covenants (e.g., exclusivity, take or pay and non - solicitation obligations), including in connection with business dispositions or strategic contracts, that restrict us from entering into lines of business or operating in certain geographic areas into which we may desire to expand our businesses. We also are subject to various non - solicitation and no - hire covenants that may restrict our ability to solicit potential customers or associates. In connection with the proposed spin-off of the American Home Shield business, we expect to enter into noncompetition, non-solicitation and no-hire covenants and restrictive agreements. If we do not comply with such restrictive covenants, or if a dispute arises regarding the scope and interpretation thereof, litigation could ensue, which could have an adverse impact on our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Further, to the extent that such restrictive covenants prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities, our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted.. Our business process outsourcing initiatives have increased our reliance on third - party vendors and may expose our businesses to harm upon the termination or disruption of our third - party vendor relationships.. Our strategy to increase profitability, in part, by reducing our costs of operations includes the implementation of certain business process outsourcing initiatives. Any disruption, termination or substandard performance of these outsourced services, including possible breaches by third - party vendors of their agreements with us, could adversely affect our brands, reputation, customer relationships, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Also, to the extent a third - party outsourcing provider relationship is terminated, there is a risk of disputes or litigation and that we may not be able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider in a timely manner or on terms that we consider favorable, and even if we find an alternate provider, or choose to insource such services, there are significant risks associated with any transitioning activities. In addition, to the extent we decide to terminate outsourcing services and insource such services, there is a risk that we may not have the capabilities to perform these services internally, resulting in a disruption to our businesses, which could adversely impact our reputation, businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We could incur costs, including personnel and equipment costs, to insource previously outsourced services like these, and these costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and maintain positive relations with trained workers and third - party contractors.. Our future success and financial performance depend substantially on our ability to attract, train and retain workers, attract and retain third - party contractors and ensure third - party contractor compliance with our policies and standards and performance expectations. However, these third - party contractors are independent parties that we do not control, and who own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their individual businesses. If third - party contractors do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required laws, standards and regulations, we could be subject to claims from regulators or legal claims for the actions or omissions of such third - party contractors. In addition, our relationship with our third - party contractors could become strained (including resulting in litigation) as we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the existing required standards and performance expectations. When a contractor relationship is terminated, there is a risk that we may not be able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate contractor in a timely manner or on favorable terms. We could incur costs to transition to other contractors, and these costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. We are also dependent on vendors for replacement appliances, systems and parts and the ability to rely on the pricing for such in the contracts we negotiate with these vendors. If we cannot obtain the replacement appliances, systems or parts from vendors within our existing stable of vendors to satisfy consumer claims, we may be forced to obtain replacement appliances, systems and parts from other vendors at higher costs, which could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 18. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness. We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our businesses and satisfy our obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.8 billion of total consolidated long-term indebtedness, including the current portion of long-term debt, outstanding.. As of December 31, 2017, there were $33 million of letters of credit outstanding and $267 million of available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, we are able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the limitations contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. Because of our substantial indebtedness:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to engage in acquisitions without raising additional equity or obtaining additional debt financing is limited;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness may be impaired in the future;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta large portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings are or will be at variable rates of interest;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with proportionately less indebtedness or with comparable indebtedness on more favorable terms and, as a result, they may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be prevented from carrying out capital spending and restructurings that are necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our businesses.. Increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and could reduce our profitability.. A significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness, including indebtedness incurred under the Credit Facilities, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. As of December 31, 2017, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in an approximately $10 million change in the annual interest expense on the Term Loan Facility after considering the impact of the effective interest rate swaps. Assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn as of December 31, 2017, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in an approximately $3 million change in annual interest expense on the Revolving Credit Facility. The impact of increases in interest rates could be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial indebtedness.. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings, outlook or watch assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.. Our indebtedness currently has a non - investment grade rating, and any rating, outlook or watch assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, current or future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, outlook or watch, such as adverse changes to our businesses, so warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings, outlook or watch likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing.. The agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our businesses.. The Credit Facilities contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of other indebtedness);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treceive dividends from certain of our subsidiaries, redeem stock or make other restricted payments, including investments and, in the case of the Revolving Credit Facility, make acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprepay, repurchase or amend the terms of certain outstanding indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransfer or sell assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmerge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into agreements restricting dividends or other distributions by our subsidiaries.. 19. Table of Contents. The restrictions in the agreements governing the Credit Facilities and the instruments governing our other indebtedness may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our businesses and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness, at maturity or otherwise, on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing the Credit Facilities and the instruments governing our other indebtedness may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control including credit or capital market disruptions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default that would permit the applicable lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay indebtedness, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the Credit Facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under the Credit Facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under such facilities or our other outstanding indebtedness. This could have serious consequences to our financial position and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent.. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control.. We are a holding company, and as such we have no independent operations or material assets other than ownership of equity interests in our subsidiaries. We depend on our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us so that we may pay obligations and expenses, including satisfying obligations with respect to indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our indebtedness depends on the financial and operating performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to make distributions and dividends to us, which, in turn, depends on their results of operations, cash flows, cash requirements, financial position and general business conditions and any legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends to which they may be subject, many of which may be beyond our control.. There are third-party restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us. If we cannot receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to meet our obligations to fund general corporate expenses or service our debt obligations. These restrictions are related to regulatory requirements at American Home Shield and to a subsidiary borrowing arrangement at ServiceMaster Acceptance Company Limited Partnership (\"SMAC\"). The payment of ordinary and extraordinary dividends by our home service plan and similar subsidiaries (through which we conduct our American Home Shield business) are subject to significant regulatory restrictions under the laws and regulations of the states in which they operate. Among other things, such laws and regulations require certain such subsidiaries to maintain minimum capital and net worth requirements and may limit the amount of ordinary and extraordinary dividends and other payments that these subsidiaries can pay to us. As of December 31, 2017, the total net assets subject to these third-party restrictions was $192 million. Such limitations are expected to be in effect for the foreseeable future.. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our indebtedness. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our indebtedness, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, we will be in default, the lenders under the Credit Facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite our indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness do not prohibit us or fully prohibit our subsidiaries from doing so. The Credit Facilities permit additional borrowings beyond the committed amounts under certain circumstances. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks we face would increase, and we may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. ServiceMaster is a holding company with no operations of its own, and it depends on its subsidiaries for cash to fund all of its operations and expenses, including to make future dividend payments, if any.. ServiceMaster's operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to fund our operations and expenses, to pay dividends or to meet debt service obligations is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of our subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that ServiceMaster needs funds, and its subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. 20. Table of Contents. We do not currently expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Payments of dividends, if any, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including general and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications of the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. To the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock, none of our subsidiaries will be obligated to make funds available to us for the payment of dividends.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket reaction to our proposed spin-off of the American Home Shield business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tindustry or general market conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdomestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in our customers' preferences;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or lack of research coverage and reports by industry analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taction by institutional stockholders or other large stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to meet any guidance given by us or any change in any guidance given by us, or changes by us in our guidance practices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us of significant impairment charges;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspeculation in the press or investment community;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestor perception of us and our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in market valuations or earnings of similar companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions or strategic partnerships;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twar, terrorist acts and epidemic disease;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany future sales of our common stock or other securities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel.. The stock markets have experienced volatility in recent years that has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, class action litigation has often been instituted against the affected company. Any litigation of this type brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which would harm our businesses, operating results and financial condition.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. In July 2014, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register the shares of common stock to be issued under our equity compensation plans and, as a result, all shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of (i) stock options granted under these plans and (ii) other equity based awards granted under the ServiceMaster Global Holdings, Inc. 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan (\"Omnibus Incentive Plan\"), including approximately 4.5 million shares of our common stock that have been sold in the public market through the exercise of stock options as of December 31, 2017, are freely tradable under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our affiliates. As of December 31, 2017, there were stock options outstanding to purchase a total of 1,125,162 shares of our common stock, there were 571,924 shares of our common stock subject to restricted stock units and there were 93,928 shares of our common stock subject to performance share units. In addition, 6,455,971 shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuances under our Omnibus Incentive Plan.. On February 24, 2015, our board of directors approved and recommended for approval by our stockholders the ServiceMaster Global Holdings, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (\"Employee Stock Purchase Plan\"), which became effective for offering periods commencing July 1, 2015. The Employee Stock Purchase Plan is intended to qualify for the favorable tax treatment under Section 423 of the Code. Under the plan, eligible employees of the Company may purchase common stock, subject to IRS limits, during pre-specified offering periods at a discount established by the Company not to exceed ten percent of the then current fair market value. On April 27, 2015, our stockholders approved the Employee Stock Purchase Plan with a maximum of one million shares of common stock authorized for sale under the plan. On November 3, 2015, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register the one million shares of common stock that may be issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan and,. 21. Table of Contents. as a result, all shares of common stock acquired under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan will be freely tradable under the Securities Act, unless purchased by our affiliates. As of December 31, 2017, 843,584 shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuances under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As a result of the planned American Home Shield spin-off described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan was suspended effective January 1, 2018.. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of our common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our businesses, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our businesses. If one or more of the analysts that covers our common stock downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our businesses, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of the analysts ceases coverage of our common stock or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities which would rank senior to our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If, in the future, we decide to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us.. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws collectively:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide for a classified board of directors, which divides our board of directors into three classes, with members of each class serving staggered three-year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new board of directors at an annual meeting;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit the ability of stockholders to remove directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that vacancies on our board of directors, including vacancies resulting from an enlargement of our board of directors, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring other business before an annual meeting of our stockholders; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire the approval of holders of at least 662/3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock to amend our amended and restated by-laws and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. 22. Table of Contents. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not intend to declare and pay cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to use our future earnings, if any, to repay debt, to repurchase shares of our common stock, to fund our growth, to develop our businesses and for working capital needs and general corporate purposes. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any cash dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future, and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. In addition, ServiceMaster's operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries. As such, to the extent that we determine in the future to pay cash dividends on our common stock, none of our subsidiaries will be obligated to make funds available to ServiceMaster for the payment of dividends. Further, the agreements governing the Credit Facilities may restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, make loans or otherwise transfer assets to us. In addition, the payment of ordinary and extraordinary dividends by our subsidiaries that are regulated as insurance, home service, or similar companies is subject to applicable state law limitations.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed to us or our stockholders by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. By becoming a stockholder in our company, you will be deemed to have notice of and have consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation related to choice of forum. The choice of forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. There may be substantial changes in our stockholder base.. As a result of the proposed spin-off of the American Home Shield business, many ServiceMaster investors may elect to sell ServiceMaster shares because ServiceMaster's business profile will be changing. This may not be aligned with a holder's investment strategy and may cause the holder to sell the shares of ServiceMaster common stock either before or after the distribution. As a result, our stock price may decline or experience volatility as our stockholder base changes.. Risks Related to the Spin-off of the American Home Shield Business. The proposed American Home Shield spin-off is subject to various risks and uncertainties, and may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all.. On July 26, 2017, we announced our plan to spin-off our American Home Shield business. The spin-off, which is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2018, is subject to customary conditions, including the effectiveness of a Registration Statement on Form 10, receipt of a favorable ruling from the IRS concerning certain tax matters and final approval by the Company's board of directors. There can be no assurance that the spin-off of American Home Shield will be completed. Unanticipated developments in the proposed spin-off, including, but not limited to, with respect to covenant waivers, regulatory approvals or clearances, receipt of a favorable ruling from the IRS, uncertainty of the financial markets and challenges in establishing infrastructure or processes, could delay or prevent the completion of the proposed spin-off or cause the proposed spin-off to occur on terms or conditions that are different from those currently expected.. The proposed American Home Shield spin-off may be more expensive or challenging than anticipated, which may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Executing the proposed spin-off will require us to incur costs, and could distract the attention of our senior management and key employees, which could disrupt operations and result in the loss of business opportunities, which could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, and results of operations. We may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating key employees during the pendency of the spin-off and following its completion, which could harm our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the spin-off, and the spin-off may materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Even if the proposed spin-off is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, operational, marketing, financial or other benefits from the spin-off, or the realization of such benefits may be delayed. The spin-off and distribution are expected to provide the following benefits, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta distinct investment identity allowing investors to evaluate the merits, strategy, performance and future prospects of our businesses separately from American Home Shield;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmore efficient allocation of capital for both ServiceMaster and American Home Shield;. 23. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenhanced management focus to more effectively pursue distinct operating priorities and strategies at ServiceMaster and American Home Shield;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe ability to pursue value - enhancing acquisitions with fewer regulatory obstacles in two consolidating industries; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfacilitation of incentive compensation arrangements for employees and management that are more directly tied to the performance of the relevant company's business, and enhancement of employee hiring and retention by, among other things, improving the alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives.. We may not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others that: (a) the spin-off will require significant amounts of management's time and effort, which may divert management's attention from operating and growing our businesses; (b) following the spin-off and distribution, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events; (c) following the spin-off and distribution, our businesses will be less diversified than prior to the spin-off and distribution; and (d) the other actions required to separate the respective businesses could disrupt operations. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the spin-off, or if such benefits are delayed, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Moreover, the spin-off may adversely affect our businesses. Separating the businesses may result in increased costs that could negatively impact the balance sheet, income statement and cash flows of each business. Additionally, if the proposed spin-off is completed, both companies will be smaller, less diversified companies with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions and competitive pressures, which could materially and adversely affect their respective businesses, financial conditions and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies following the completion of the proposed spin-off will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed spin-off not occurred."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
