[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business and our financial condition and results of operations. In this event, we might not be able to pay distributions on our common units, and the trading price of our common units could decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. We may not have sufficient cash available for distribution following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including cost reimbursements to our general partner and its affiliates, to enable us to pay minimum quarterly distributions to our unitholders.. We may not generate sufficient cash flows each quarter to enable us to pay minimum quarterly distributions. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, our throughput volumes, tariff rates and fees and prevailing. 24. economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash flows we generate will also depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the amount of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses, including reimbursements to SPLC with respect to those expenses;. • the volume of crude oil, refined products and refinery gas that we transport and the ability of our customers to meet their obligations under our contracts;. • actions by FERC or other regulatory bodies that reduce our rates or increase expenses;. • the amount and timing of expansion capital expenditures and acquisitions we make;. • the amount of maintenance capital expenditures we make;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities, and restrictions contained in our debt agreements;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • the amount of cash distributed to us by the entities in which we own a noncontrolling interest;. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner; and. • changes in, and availability to us, of the equity and debt capital markets.. We do not control certain of the entities that own our assets.. We have no significant assets other than our ownership interest in entities that own crude oil, refined products and refinery gas pipelines and a crude tank storage and terminal system. As a result, our ability to make distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of these entities and their ability to distribute funds to us. More specifically:. • many of the entities in which we own interests are managed by their respective governing board. Our ability to influence decisions with respect to the operation of such entities varies depending on the amount of control we exercise under the applicable governing agreement;. • we do not control the amount of cash distributed by several of the entities in which we own interests. We may influence the amount of cash distributed through our veto rights over the cash reserves made by certain of these entities;. • we may not have the ability to unilaterally require certain of the entities in which we own interests to make capital expenditures, and such entities may require us to make additional capital contributions to fund operating and maintenance expenditures, as well as to fund expansion capital expenditures, which would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution by us or require us to incur additional indebtedness;. • the entities in which we own interests may incur additional indebtedness without our consent, which debt payments would reduce the amount of cash that might otherwise be available for distribution;. • our assets are operated by entities that we do not control; and. • the operator of the assets held by each joint venture and the identity of our joint venture partners could change, in some cases without our consent.. For more information on the agreements governing the management and operation of the entities in which we own an interest, see Part III, Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence  -  Agreements with Shell and Part I, Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties  -  Our Assets and Operations in this report.. Our ability to renew or replace our third-party contract portfolio on comparable terms could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions.. As portions of our third-party contract portfolio come up for replacement or renewal, and capacity becomes available, adverse market conditions may prevent us from replacing or renewing the contracts on comparable terms. For example, two of our transportation services agreements on our Zydeco pipeline system will expire in December 2018, and another will expire in mid-2019. These contracts represent approximately 30% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, at our Lockport terminal, we have two terminal services agreements that will expire in 2018, one of which is currently under re-negotiation, and another expiring in 2019. Our ability to achieve favorable terms under these expiring contracts could be affected by many factors, including:. 25. •prolonged reduced commodity prices;. •a decrease in demand for our services in the markets we serve;. •increased competition for our services in the markets we serve; and. •actions by FERC or other regulatory bodies that impact our rates or expenses.. If we replace the expiring agreements with shorter-term or spot transportation or storage services, our revenues could be more volatile than they would be under longer-term arrangements. If we are unable to replace the expiring agreements or renew the expiring agreements on comparable terms, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansions of our asset base, our ability to make or increase quarterly cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. Other than our credit facilities, we do not have any contractual commitment with any of our affiliates to provide any direct or indirect financial assistance to us.. We will be required to do one of the following; use cash from our operations, incur borrowings or access the capital markets in order to fund our capital expenditures. If we do not make sufficient or effective capital expenditures, we may be unable to expand our business operations and may be unable to maintain or raise the level of our quarterly cash distributions. The entities in which we own an interest may also incur borrowings or access the capital markets to fund capital expenditures and may require that we fund our proportionate share of such expenditures. Our and their ability to obtain financing or access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at such time as well as the covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies, or other uncertainties that are beyond our control. Any decline in the debt and equity capital markets may increase the cost of financing and the risks of refinancing maturity debt. There can be no assurance that the capital markets will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The terms of any financing or the use of cash on hand could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. Incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate.. Our operations are subject to many risks and operational hazards. If a significant accident or event occurs that results in a business interruption or shutdown for which we are not adequately insured, our operations and financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to all of the risks and operational hazards inherent in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, including:. • damages to pipelines, facilities, offshore pipeline equipment and surrounding properties caused by third parties, severe weather, natural disasters, including hurricanes, and acts of terrorism;. • maintenance, repairs, mechanical or structural failures at our or SPLC's facilities or at third-party facilities on which our customers' or our operations are dependent, including electrical shortages, power disruptions and power grid failures;. • damages to, loss of availability of and delays in gaining access to interconnecting third-party pipelines, terminals and other means of delivering crude oil, refined products and refinery gas;. • costs and liabilities in responding to any soil and groundwater contamination that occurs on our terminal properties, even if the contamination was caused by prior owners and operators of our terminal system;. • disruption or failure of information technology systems and network infrastructure due to various causes, including unauthorized access or attack of the central control room from which some of our pipelines are remotely controlled;. • leaks of crude oil or refined products as a result of the malfunction or age of equipment or facilities;. • unexpected business interruptions;. 26. • curtailments of operations due to severe seasonal weather; and. • riots, strikes, lockouts or other industrial disturbances.. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, as well as business interruptions or shutdowns of our facilities.. For example, on our Zydeco pipeline system we ran an in-line inspection tool, will hydro-test the system and will invest in additional equipment to mitigate the effects of pressure cycling in the future. Certain inspection and related preparatory activities for the hydro-test occurred in 2017, with an impact of approximately $6.5 million to net income and cash available for distribution. We expect the hydro-test will result in a portion of the Zydeco pipeline between Houston, Texas and Houma, Louisiana being out of service for approximately 30 to 45 days in the first quarter of 2018. We currently estimate the impact to net income and cash available for distribution will be approximately $60.0 million in the first quarter of 2018. Final remediation activities are planned to be completed in the second quarter of 2018 with no expected material impact.. If third-party pipelines, production platforms, refineries, caverns and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines, Triton's refined product terminal and Lockport's terminal facilities become unavailable to transport, produce, refine or store crude oil, or produce or transport refined product, our revenue and available cash could be adversely affected.. We depend upon third-party pipelines, production platforms, refineries, caverns and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and terminal facilities. For example, Mars depends on a natural gas supply pipeline connecting to the West Delta 143 platform to power its equipment to deliver the volumes it transports to salt dome caverns in Clovelly, Louisiana. Similarly, shutdown or blockage of pipelines moving offshore gas can result in curtailment or shut-in of offshore crude production. Because we do not own these third-party pipelines, production platforms, refineries, caverns or facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. For example, production platforms in the offshore Gulf of Mexico may be required to be shut in by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (\"BSEE\") or BOEM of the U.S. Department of the Interior following incidents such as loss of well control. If these or any other pipeline or terminal connection were to become unavailable for current or future volumes of crude oil or refined product due to repairs, damage to the facility, lack of capacity, shut in by regulators or any other reason, or if caverns to which we connect have cracks, leaks or leaching or require shut-in due to regulatory action or changes in law, our ability to operate efficiently and continue to store or ship crude oil and refined products to major demand centers could be restricted, thereby reducing revenue. Disruptions at refineries that use our pipelines, such as strikes or ship channel incidents, can also have an adverse impact on the volume of products we ship. Increases in the rates charged by the interconnected pipelines for transportation to and from our terminal facilities may reduce the utilization of our terminals. Our refined products terminals are limited to a 5% reduction in payments by the customer due to force majeure incidents. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline or terminal interconnect, at any key production platform or refinery, at caverns to which we deliver, termination of any connection agreement, or adverse change in the terms and conditions of service, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. In November 2017, the Enchilada platform in Garden Banks Block 128 experienced a fire that resulted in the shut-in of all production flowing through Auger. The impact to net income and cash available for distribution in the fourth quarter of 2017 was approximately $6.0 million. The platforms contributing a majority of Auger's daily throughput have returned to service in the first quarter of 2018, and the remaining impacted platforms are expected to return to normal operations by mid-2018. As such, the estimated impacts to net income and cash available for distribution are approximately $7.0 million and $3.0 million in the first and second quarters of 2018, respectively.. Since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2017, fields connecting to Odyssey have been offline due to operational issues, causing an impact of approximately $3.5 million to net income and cash available for distribution in 2017 for Odyssey and Delta. It is expected that they will remain offline through at least the first quarter of 2018. The estimated impact to net income and cash available for distribution is approximately $4.5 million and $1.5 million in the first and second quarters of 2018, respectively.. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms from Shell or third parties, our future growth would be limited, and any acquisitions we may make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash flows and ability to make distributions to unitholders.. 27. Our strategy to grow our business and increase distributions to unitholders is dependent in part on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in cash available for distribution per unit. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions will depend upon, among other things, whether we are able to:. • identify attractive acquisition candidates;. • negotiate acceptable purchase agreements;. • obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms, which may be more difficult at times when the capital markets are less accessible; and. • outbid any competing bidders.. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions, whether from Shell or any third parties. If we are unable to make future acquisitions, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited. Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in cash available for distribution per unit as a result of incorrect assumptions in our evaluation of such acquisitions or unforeseen consequences or other external events beyond our control. We may incur difficulties and additional costs in connection with integrating an acquired asset or entity. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, inefficiencies and unexpected costs and liabilities.. Any significant decrease in production of crude oil in areas in which we operate could reduce the volumes of crude oil we transport and store, which could adversely affect our revenue and available cash.. Our crude oil pipelines and terminal system depend on the continued availability of crude oil production and reserves, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. Low prices for crude oil could adversely affect development of additional reserves and continued production from existing reserves that are accessible by our assets.. Crude oil prices have fluctuated throughout 2017 and 2016 after a steep decline in 2015. The current global geopolitical and economic uncertainty may contribute to continued volatility in financial and commodity markets in the near to medium term. High, low and average daily prices for West Texas Intermediate (\"WTI\") crude oil at Cushing, Oklahoma during January 2018, 2017 and 2016 were as follows:. WTI Crude Oil Prices   High   Average   Low January 2018 $ 66.27     $ 63.38     $ 60.37   2017 60.46     50.80     42.48   2016 54.01     43.29     26.19. In general terms, the prices of crude oil and other hydrocarbon products fluctuate in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors impacting crude oil prices include worldwide economic conditions; weather conditions and seasonal trends; the levels of domestic production and consumer demand; the availability of imported crude oil; the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity; the volatility and uncertainty of regional basis differentials and premiums; actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") and other oil producing nations; the price and availability of alternative fuels; the effect of energy conservation measures; the strength of the U.S. dollar; the nature and extent of governmental regulation and taxation; and the anticipated future prices of crude oil and other commodities.. Lower crude oil prices, or expectations of declines in crude oil prices, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on exploration, development and production activity, particularly in the continental U.S. If lower prices are sustained, it could lead to a material decrease in such activity both onshore continental U.S. and in the Gulf of Mexico. Sustained reductions in exploration or production activity in our areas of operation could lead to reduced utilization of our pipeline and terminal systems or reduced rates under renegotiated transportation or storage agreements. Our customers may also face liquidity and credit issues that could impair their ability to meet their payment obligations under our contracts or cause them to renegotiate existing contracts at lower rates or for shorter terms. These conditions may lead some of our customers, particularly customers that are facing financial difficulties, to seek to renegotiate existing contracts on terms that are less attractive to us. Any such reduction in demand or less attractive terms could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and ability to make or increase cash distributions to our unitholders.. 28. In addition, production from existing areas with access to our pipeline and terminal systems will naturally decline over time. The amount of crude oil reserves underlying wells in these areas may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Accordingly, to maintain or increase the volume of crude oil transported, or throughput, on our pipelines, or stored in our terminal system, and cash flows associated with the transportation and storage of crude oil, our customers must continually obtain new supplies of crude oil. In addition, we will not generate revenue under our life-of-lease transportation agreements that do not include a guaranteed return to the extent that production in the area we serve declines or is shut in.. If new supplies of crude oil are not obtained, including supplies to replace any decline in volumes from our existing areas of operations, the overall volume of crude oil transported or stored on our systems would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Any significant decrease in the demand for crude oil, refined products and refinery gas could reduce the volumes of crude oil, refined products and refinery gas that we transport, which could adversely affect our revenue and available cash.. The volumes of crude oil, refined products and refinery gas that we transport depend on the supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline, jet fuel, refinery gas and other refined products in our geographic areas. Demand for crude oil, refined products and refinery gas may decline in the areas we serve as a result of, decreased production by our customers, depressed commodity price environment, increased competition, and adverse economic factors, affecting the exploration, production and refining industries.. If the demand for crude oil, refined products or refinery gas decreases significantly, or if there were a material increase in the price of crude oil supplied to our customers' refineries without an increase in the value of the products produced by those refineries, either temporary or permanent, it may cause our customers to reduce production of refined products at their refineries. If production of refined products declines, there would likely be a reduction in the volumes of crude oil and refined products that we transport. Any such reduction could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums.. With the exception of Odyssey, our consolidated assets are insured at the entity level for certain property damage, business interruption and third-party liabilities, which includes pollution liabilities. For Odyssey, as well as our other non-consolidated interests in joint ventures, the current owners are required to carry insurance for their pro rata share. We carry commercial insurance for our pro rata portion of these assets, which will increase our operations and maintenance expenses.. All of the insurance policies relating to our assets and operations are subject to policy limits. In addition, the waiting period under the business interruption insurance policies of the entities in which we own an interest is 60 days. We and the entities in which we own an interest do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and certain hurricanes and natural disasters have made it more difficult and more expensive to obtain certain types of coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance, or failure by our insurer to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance companies may reduce the insurance capacity they are willing to offer or may demand significantly higher premiums or deductibles to cover our assets. If significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost. There is no assurance that the insurers of the entities in which we own an interest will renew their insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that the entities in which we own an interest will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. The unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which the entities in which we own an interest suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We are subject to the risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. If any of our most significant customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our customers may be. 29. highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. If any of our customers were to seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or other insolvency laws, the court could void the customer's contracts with us or allow our customer to reject such contracts. For certain of our pipelines, we may have a limited pool of potential customers and may be unable to replace any customers who default on their obligations to us. Therefore, any material deterioration in the creditworthiness of our customers or any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our expansion of existing assets and construction of new assets may not result in revenue increases and will be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. In order to optimize our existing asset base, we intend to evaluate and capitalize on organic opportunities for expansion projects in order to increase revenue on our assets. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost.. We also intend to expand our existing pipelines and terminals, such as by adding horsepower, pump stations, new connections or additional tank storage. We expect to complete several expansion and upgrade projects, the Houma land purchases, tank construction and possible pipeline expansion.. These expansion projects involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control.. Moreover, we may not receive sufficient long-term contractual commitments or spot shipments from customers to provide the revenue needed to support projects, and we may be unable to negotiate acceptable interconnection agreements with third-party pipelines to provide destinations for increased throughput. Even if we receive such commitments or spot shipments or make such interconnections, we may not realize an increase in revenue for an extended period of time. For example, we expanded pumping capacity on Zydeco to Clovelly and entered into a joint tariff agreement with LOCAP to enhance movements on Zydeco to St. James. However, anticipated volume increases may not materialize, and we may not realize an increase in revenue as a result of the expansion project and joint tariff or realize the full benefit from this interconnection. As a result, new or expanded facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We do not own all of the land on which our assets are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.. We do not own all of the land on which our assets are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and increased costs to retain necessary land use if we do not have valid leases or rights-of-way or if such leases or rights-of-way lapse or terminate. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our assets on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies, and some of our agreements may grant us those rights for only a specific period of time. For example, we lease the land upon which our Houma tanks are located and that lease agreement will expire at the end of 2019. Our loss of these or similar rights, through our inability to renew leases, right-of-way contracts or otherwise, or inability to obtain easements at reasonable costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We are subject to pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require significant capital expenditures, increase our cost of operations and affect or limit our business plans.. Our interstate and offshore pipeline operations are subject to pipeline safety regulations administered by the PHMSA of the DOT. These laws and regulations require us to comply with a significant set of requirements for the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of our crude oil and refined products pipelines.. Certain aspects of our offshore pipeline operations, such as new construction and modification, are also regulated by BOEM, BSEE and the U.S. Coast Guard.. PHMSA has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines, with enhanced measures required for pipelines located where a leak or rupture could harm an HCA. The regulations require operators to:. 30. • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity;. • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could affect an HCA;. • improve data collection, integration and analysis;. • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and. • implement preventive and mitigating actions.. In addition, states have adopted regulations similar to existing PHMSA regulations for intrastate pipelines. For example, our intrastate pipelines in Louisiana are subject to pipeline integrity management regulations administered by the Office of Conservation of the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources.. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with applicable pipeline integrity management regulations, as the cost will vary significantly depending on the number and extent of any repairs found to be necessary as a result of the pipeline integrity testing. We will continue our pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our pipelines. The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. In addition, our actual implementation costs may be affected by industry-wide demand for the associated contractors and service providers. Additionally, should any of our assets fail to comply with PHMSA regulations, they could be subject to shut-down, pressure reductions, penalties and fines. Changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on us and similarly situated midstream operators. For example, on January 13, 2017, PHMSA announced the issuance of the Pipeline Safety: Safety of Hazardous Liquids Pipelines final rule.  The final rule addressed topics such as: reporting requirements for gravity and gathering lines, inspections of pipelines following extreme weather events, periodic assessment of pipelines not currently subject to integrity management, repair criteria, expanded use of leak detection systems, increased use of in-line inspection tools and other clarifications. On January 19, 2017, PHMSA announced the issuance of new operator qualification rules that clarify the current regulations.  It is unclear when or if these rules will go into effect as these rules were withdrawn for further review by the Trump Administration in early 2017. However, we cannot know for certain when and how these rules will ultimately take effect.. In this climate of increasingly stringent regulation, pipeline failures or failures to comply with applicable regulations could result in shut-downs, capacity constraints or operational limitations to our pipelines. Should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Compliance with and changes in environmental laws and regulations, including proposed climate change laws and regulations, could adversely affect our performance. Our customers are also subject to environmental laws and regulations, and any changes in these laws and regulations, including laws and regulations related to hydraulic fracturing, could result in significant added costs to comply with such requirements and delays or curtailment in pursuing production activities, which could reduce demand for our services.. The principal environmental risks associated with our operations are emissions into the air and releases into the soil, surface water or groundwater. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge and remediation of materials in the environment, greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions, waste management, species and habitat preservation, pollution prevention, pipeline integrity and other safety-related regulations and characteristics and composition of fuels. Certain of these laws and regulations could impose obligations to conduct assessment or remediation efforts at our facilities or third-party sites where we take wastes for disposal or where our wastes migrated, or could impose strict liability on us for the conduct of third parties or for actions that complied with applicable requirements when taken, regardless of negligence or fault. Our offshore operations are also subject to laws and regulations protecting the marine environment administered by the U.S. Coast Guard and BOEM. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to administrative, civil or criminal penalties or liability and imposition of injunctions, operating restrictions or the loss of permits.. Because environmental laws and regulations are becoming more stringent and new environmental laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, the level of expenditures required for environmental matters could increase in the future. Current and future legislative action and regulatory initiatives could result in changes to operating permits, material changes in operations, increased capital expenditures and operating costs, increased costs of the goods we transport, and decreased demand for products we handle that cannot be assessed with certainty at this time. We may be required to make expenditures to modify operations or install pollution control equipment or release prevention and containment systems that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity if these expenditures,. 31. as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the tariffs and other fees we receive for our services. For example, the EPA has, in recent years, adopted final rules making more stringent the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (\"NAAQS\") for ozone, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide. Emerging rules implementing these revised air quality standards may require us to obtain more stringent air permits and install more stringent controls at our operations, which may result in increased capital expenditures.. Climate change legislation and regulations to address GHG emissions are in various phases of discussion or implementation in the United States. The outcome of federal, state and regional actions to address climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations to control or restrict emissions, taxes or other charges to deter emissions of GHGs, energy efficiency requirements to reduce demand, or other regulatory actions. These actions could result in increased compliance and operating costs or could adversely affect demand for the crude oil and refined products that we transport. Additionally, adoption of federal, state or regional requirements mandating a reduction in GHG emissions could have far-reaching impacts on the energy industry and the U.S. economy. We cannot predict the potential impact of such laws or regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, it is uncertain if they would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. Our customers are also subject to environmental laws and regulations that affect their businesses, and changes in these laws or regulations could materially adversely affect their businesses or prospects. Our crude oil pipelines serve customers who depend on production techniques, such as hydraulic fracturing, that are currently being scrutinized by federal, state and local authorities and that could be subjected to increased regulatory costs, delays or liabilities. Any changes in laws or regulations that impose significant costs or liabilities on our customers, or that result in delays, curtailments or cancellations of their projects, could reduce their demand for our services and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Subsidence and coastal erosion could damage our pipelines along the Gulf Coast and offshore and the facilities of our customers, which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our pipeline operations along the Gulf Coast and offshore could be impacted by subsidence and coastal erosion. Such processes could cause serious damage to our pipelines, which could affect our ability to provide transportation services. Additionally, such processes could impact our customers who operate along the Gulf Coast, and they may be unable to utilize our services. Subsidence and coastal erosion could also expose our operations to increased risks associated with severe weather conditions, such as hurricanes, flooding and rising sea levels. As a result, we may incur significant costs to repair and preserve our pipeline infrastructure. Such costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We may be unable to obtain or renew permits necessary for our operations or for growth and expansion projects, which could inhibit our ability to do business.. Our facilities operate under a number of federal and state permits, licenses and approvals with terms and conditions containing a significant number of prescriptive limits and performance standards in order to operate. In addition, we implement maintenance, growth and expansion projects as necessary to pursue business opportunities, and these projects often require similar permits, licenses and approvals. These permits, licenses, approval limits and standards require a significant amount of monitoring, record keeping and reporting in order to demonstrate compliance with the underlying permit, license, approval limit or standard. Noncompliance or incomplete documentation of our compliance status may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive relief. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Our assets were constructed over many decades which may cause our inspection, maintenance or repair costs to increase in the future. In addition, there could be service interruptions due to unknown events or conditions or increased downtime associated with our pipelines that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our pipelines and storage terminals were constructed over many decades. Pipelines and storage terminals are generally long-lived assets, and construction and coating techniques have varied over time. Depending on the era of construction, some assets will require more frequent inspections, which could result in increased maintenance or repair expenditures in the future.. 32. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The tariff rates and rules and regulations for service of our regulated assets, as well as our business practices for our regulated assets, are subject to review, audit and possible adjustment by federal and state regulators, which could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.. We provide both interstate and intrastate transportation services for refined products and crude oil. Our interstate and intrastate pipelines are common carriers and are required to provide service to any shipper similarly situated to an existing shipper that requests transportation services on our pipelines.. Zydeco, Bengal, Colonial, Explorer and portions of Mars provide interstate transportation services that are subject to regulation by FERC under the ICA. FERC uses prescribed rate methodologies for developing and changing regulated rates for interstate pipelines. Shippers may protest (and FERC may investigate) the lawfulness of existing, new or changed tariff rates. FERC can suspend new or changed tariff rates, rules and regulations for up to seven months and can allow new rates to be implemented subject to refund of amounts collected in excess of the rate ultimately found to be just and reasonable. Shippers may also file complaints that existing rates are unjust and unreasonable. If FERC finds a rate to be unjust and unreasonable, it may order payment of reparations for up to two years prior to the filing of a complaint or investigation, and FERC may prescribe new rates prospectively. On November 3, 2015, Colonial made a rules and regulations tariff filing with FERC in Docket No. 16-61-000 to change, among other things, its capacity allocation and minimum tender procedures.  Colonial made the filing to address chronic allocation issues on its system. FERC rejected the package of proposals in Colonial's filing and a revised proposal filed on March 23, 2016, but accepted, in an order issued on January 13, 2017, certain aspects of Colonial's November 3, 2015 filing related to the minimum tender requirement for the Woodbury-Linden Main Line and the rounding increment used to allocate capacity on Main Lines 1 & 2.. On December 22, 2017, legislation known as the \"Tax Cut and Jobs Act\" was enacted, which reduced the highest marginal U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December, 31 2017. Certain of our current tariff rates on file with FERC may reflect the federal income tax rates that were in effect at the time those tariff rates were established. As with any regulatory requirements promulgated by FERC, if FERC requires us to establish new tariff rates that reflect the current federal corporate income tax rate, it is possible the rates would be reduced, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operation and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We may at any time also be required to respond to governmental requests for information, including compliance audits and rate case reviews conducted by FERC, such as the audit of Explorer and rate complaints filed against Colonial. FERC's Office of Enforcement concluded an audit of Explorer in Docket No. FA16-5-000 for the period January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2016, and issued a letter order on January 12, 2018 adopting the audit's findings and recommendations.  Explorer accepted the audit's findings and recommendations, which did not have a financial impact to us. On November 22, 2017, Epsilon Trading LLC, Chevron Products Company, and Valero Marketing and Supply Company filed a complaint with FERC against Colonial challenging its rates for the transportation of petroleum products, including whether it should be permitted to continue charging market-based rates for certain movements originating at the Gulf Coast. Additionally, on February 2, 2018, BP Products North America Inc., Trafigura Trading LLC and TCPU Inc. also filed a complaint with FERC against Colonial regarding rates. These pending complaints have been docketed as Docket Nos. OR18-7-000 and OR18-12-000, respectively, and in both cases, the FERC has not taken any action on the complaints as of this time.. State agencies may regulate the rates, terms and conditions of service for our pipelines offering intrastate transportation services, and such agencies could limit our ability to increase our rates or order us to reduce our rates and pay refunds to shippers. State agencies can also regulate whether a service may be provided or cancelled. The FERC and most state agencies support light-handed regulation of common carrier pipelines and have generally not investigated the rates, terms and conditions of service of pipelines in the absence of shipper complaints, and generally resolve complaints informally. Louisiana's Public Service Commission has a more stringent review of rate increases and may prohibit or limit future rate increases for intrastate movements regulated by Louisiana.. Under our agreements with certain of our customers, we and the customer have agreed to base tariff rates for some of our pipelines, and our customers have agreed not to challenge the base tariff rates or changes to those rates during the term of the agreements, subject to certain exceptions. Some of these agreements and the underlying rates have been approved by FERC under a declaratory order. These agreements do not, however, prevent any other new or prospective shipper, FERC or a state agency from challenging our tariff rates or our terms and conditions of service on rates or services not covered by these agreements. Following the reversal of Zydeco, in December 2013, SPLC filed three related tariffs with FERC to establish rates. 33. for uncommitted service on Zydeco. The filed rates became effective on December 12, 2013 and were jointly protested in a FERC filing by Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, ConocoPhillips Company, Marathon Oil Company and Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. (collectively, the \"Liquid Shipper Group\").  Zydeco later adopted those tariffs as part of its acquisition of the Ho-Ho pipeline, and Zydeco's rates for uncommitted service were also protested by the Liquid Shipper Group under Docket  Nos. IS14-607-000, IS14-608-000, IS14-609-000, and IS14-610-000, filed on July 31, 2014. After adoption of the SPLC tariffs by Zydeco, the protest against SPLC was dismissed. On August 15, 2015, all parties reached a settlement agreement establishing maximum uncommitted rates for uncommitted shippers, providing rate refunds plus interest, and establishing a two year rate moratorium during which neither Zydeco or the Liquid Shipper Group may file to change or challenge the settlement rates, among other terms. FERC accepted the settlement by a letter order, and the approved settlement, including the revised rates, went into effect December 1, 2016.. Further, rate investigations by FERC or a state commission could result in an investigation of our costs, including the:. • overall cost of service, including operating costs and overhead;. • allocation of overhead and other administrative and general expenses to the regulated entity;. • appropriate capital structure to be utilized in calculating rates;. • appropriate rate of return on equity and interest rates on debt;. • rate base, including the proper starting rate base;. • throughput underlying the rate; and. • proper allowance for federal and state income taxes.. Shippers can always file a complaint with the FERC or a state agency challenging rates or conditions of services.  If they were successful, the FERC or state agency could order reparations. A successful challenge of any of our rates, or any changes to FERC's approved rate or index methodologies, could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Similarly, if state agencies in the states in which we offer intrastate transportation services change their policies or aggressively regulate our rates or terms and conditions of service, it could also adversely affect our revenues, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. If we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted.. We depend on our senior management team and key technical personnel. If their services are unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company and to develop our products and technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms or at all.. Terrorist or cyber-attacks and threats, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Terrorist attacks and threats, cyber-attacks, or escalation of military activity in response to these attacks, may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets and transportation assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist or cyber-attacks than other targets in the U.S. Due to increased technology advances, we have become more reliant on technology to increase efficiency in our business. We use various electronic systems in our operations, and this may subject our business to increased risks. Any future cyber security attacks that affect our facilities, our customers and any financial data could have a material adverse effect on our business. Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer operational system failure. Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, resulting in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial results. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability or loss resulting from a cyber-attack on our assets that may shut down all or part of our business. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Violations of data protection laws carry fines and expose us to criminal sanctions and civil suits.. 34. Data protection laws apply to us and our Parent. Over 100 countries have data protection laws and regulations. Additionally, the European Union (\"EU\") General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which will be applicable from May 2018, increases penalties up to a maximum of 4% of global annual turnover for breach of the regulation. The GDPR requires mandatory breach notification, the standard for which is also followed outside the EU (particularly in Asia). Non-compliance with data protection laws could expose us or our Parent to regulatory investigations, which could result in fines and penalties. In addition to imposing fines, regulators may also issue orders to stop processing personal data, which could disrupt operations. We or our Parent could also be subject to litigation from persons or corporations allegedly affected by data protection violations. Violation of data protection laws is a criminal offence in some countries, and individuals can be imprisoned or fined. Any violation of these laws or harm to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. We rely heavily on information technology systems for our operations.. The operation of many of our business processes depends on reliable information technology (\"IT\") systems. We use our Parent's IT systems, which are increasingly concentrated in terms of geography, number of systems, and key contractors supporting the delivery of IT services. Shell, like many other multinational companies, is the target of attempts to gain unauthorized access to its IT systems and our data through various channels, including more sophisticated and coordinated attempts often referred to as advanced persistent threats. While Shell's IT systems have been breached in the past, we believe that to date, no significant breach has occurred. Timely detection is becoming increasingly complex but we seek to detect and investigate all such security incidents, aiming to prevent their recurrence. Disruption of critical IT services, or breaches of information security, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Restrictions in our credit facilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and the value of our units.. We will be dependent upon the earnings and cash flows generated by our operations in order to meet any debt service obligations and to allow us to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We entered into two revolving credit facilities and one fixed rate facility, and Zydeco has entered into a senior unsecured revolving credit facility with an affiliate of Shell with a total capacity of $2,390.0 million, under which a total of $1,846.9 million was drawn as of December 31, 2017. Borrowings under our credit facilities were used to fund in part our acquisitions in 2017, 2016 and 2015. Restrictions in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business activities, which may, in turn, limit our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. The restrictions in our credit facilities could affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our credit facilities could result in an event of default which would enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered, and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. See Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Capital Resources and Liquidity  -  Credit Facilities in this report for additional information about our credit facilities.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Interest rates on current and future credit facilities and debt offerings could increase above current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by our level of cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our common units, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and our ability to make cash distributions at our intended levels.. Our product loss allowance exposes us to commodity risk.. 35. Our long-term transportation agreements and tariffs for crude oil shipments include a product loss allowance. We collect product loss allowance to reduce our exposure to differences in crude oil measurement between origin and destination meters, which can fluctuate widely. This arrangement exposes us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when the crude oil is received from a ship or connecting carrier using different measurement techniques, or resulting from solids and water produced from the crude oil. It is not always possible for us to completely mitigate the measurement differential. If the measurement differential exceeds the loss allowance, the pipeline must make the customer whole for the difference in measured crude oil. Additionally, we take title to any excess product that we transport when product losses are within the allowed levels, and we sell that product several times per year at prevailing market prices. This allowance oil revenue is subject to more volatility than transportation revenue, as it is directly dependent on our measurement capability and commodity prices.. The lack of diversification of our assets and geographic locations could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. A significant amount of our revenue is generated from assets located in Texas and the Louisiana Gulf Coast and offshore Louisiana. Due to our lack of diversification in assets and geographic location, an adverse development in our businesses or areas of operations, including adverse developments due to catastrophic events, weather, regulatory action and decreases in demand for crude oil and refined products, could have a significantly greater impact on our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our common unitholders than if we maintained more diverse assets and locations.. If we are deemed an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common units.. Our assets include partial ownership interests in Zydeco, Mars, Bengal, Poseidon, Odyssey, Colonial, Explorer, Endymion, Proteus, Cleopatra and Permian Basin. If a sufficient amount of our assets, or other assets acquired in the future, are deemed to be \"investment securities\" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, claim an exemption, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage, and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The occurrence of some or all of these events would adversely affect the price of our common units and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, including our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us. Our general partner and its affiliates, including Shell, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties to us and our unitholders, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Additionally, we have no control over the business decisions and operations of Shell, and it is under no obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us.. As of December 31, 2017, SPLC owned a 46.4% limited partner interest in us and owned and controlled our general partner. Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of us and our unitholders, the directors and officers of our general partner also have a duty to manage our general partner in a manner that is not adverse to the best interests of its owner, SPLC. Conflicts of interest may arise between SPLC and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. In resolving these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates, including SPLC, over the interests of our common unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires SPLC to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, which could involve decisions by SPLC to undertake acquisition opportunities for itself;. • SPLC's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the owners of SPLC, which may be contrary to our interests; in addition, many of the officers and directors of our general partner are also officers and/or directors of SPLC and will owe fiduciary duties to SPLC and its owners;. • SPLC may be constrained by the terms of its debt instruments from taking actions, or refraining from taking actions, that may be in our best interests;. • our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limiting our general partner's liabilities and restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. 36. • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • disputes may arise under agreements pursuant to which SPLC and its affiliates are our customers;. • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuance of additional partnership securities and the creation, reduction or increase of cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner will determine the amount and timing of many of our capital expenditures and whether a capital expenditure is classified as an expansion capital expenditure, which would not reduce operating surplus, or a maintenance capital expenditure, which would reduce our operating surplus. This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner will determine which costs incurred by it are reimbursable by us;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions;. • our partnership agreement permits us to classify up to $90.0 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus. This cash may be used to fund distributions to our general partner in respect of the general partner units or the incentive distribution rights;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase all of the common units not owned by it and its affiliates if it and its affiliates own more than 75.0% of the common units;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including under the Omnibus Agreements and our other agreements with SPLC and its affiliates;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; and. • our general partner may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, which we refer to as our conflicts committee, or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. Under the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires that we distribute all of our available cash, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We expect that we will distribute all of our available cash to our unitholders and will rely primarily upon our cash reserves and external financing sources, including borrowings under our credit facilities and the issuance of debt and equity securities, to fund future acquisitions and other expansion capital expenditures. To the extent we are unable to finance growth with external sources of capital, the requirement in our partnership agreement to distribute all of our available cash and our current cash distribution policy will significantly impair our ability to grow. In addition, because we will distribute all of our available cash, our growth may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest all of their available cash to expand ongoing operations.. Our credit facilities restrict our ability to incur additional debt including the issuance of debt securities, except for incurring bank loans or loans from affiliates up to other certain levels. To the extent we issue additional units, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our cash distributions. 37. per unit. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to our common units, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such additional units. If we incur additional debt (under our revolving credit facilities or otherwise) to finance our growth strategy, we will have increased interest expense, which in turn will reduce the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders.. The fees and reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates, including SPLC, for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce our cash available for distribution. In certain cases, the amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner and its affiliates, including SPLC.. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including SPLC, for costs and expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement and our Zydeco operating and management agreement, we pay an annual fee, currently $8.5 million and $8.1 million, respectively, to SPLC for general and administrative services. In addition, pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, we reimburse our general partner for payments to SPLC for other expenses incurred by SPLC on our behalf to the extent the fees relating to such services are not included in the general and administrative services fee. We also reimburse our general partner and SPLC, as applicable, for certain services provided under our operating agreements related to Pecten, Sand Dollar and Triton West. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we reimbursed our general partner and SPLC $3.9 million and $5.2 million, respectively, under these operating agreements. Each of these payments will be made prior to making any distributions on our common units. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce our cash available for distribution. There is no limit on the fee and expense reimbursements that we may be required to pay to our general partner and its affiliates.. Our partnership agreement replaces fiduciary duties applicable to a corporation with contractual duties and restricts the remedies available to holders of our common units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that replace fiduciary duties applicable to a corporation with contractual duties and restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement provides that:. • whenever our general partner (acting in its capacity as our general partner), the board of directors of our general partner or any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee) makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in their respective capacities, our general partner, the board of directors of our general partner and any committee thereof (including the conflicts committee), as applicable, is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, meaning that it subjectively believed that the decision was not adverse to our best interests, and, except as specifically provided by our partnership agreement, will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as such decisions are made in good faith;. • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement (including any duties to us or our unitholders) if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. • approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval;. • approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates;. • determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties; or. 38. • determined by the board of directors of our general partner to be fair and reasonable to us, taking into account the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly favorable or advantageous to us.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner or the conflicts committee must be made in good faith. If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee and the board of directors of our general partner determines that the resolution or course of action taken with respect to the affiliate transaction or conflict of interest satisfies either of the standards set forth in the third and fourth subbullet points above, then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, the board of directors of our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the Partnership challenging such determination, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Units held by ineligible holders may be subject to redemption.. We have adopted certain requirements regarding those investors who may own our common units. Eligible taxable holders are limited partners whose, or whose owners', federal income tax status does not have or is not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the rates that can be charged by us on assets that are subject to regulation by FERC or a similar regulatory body, as determined by our general partner with the advice of counsel. Ineligible holders are limited partners (a) who are not an eligible taxable holder or (b) whose nationality, citizenship or other related status would create a substantial risk of cancellation or forfeiture of any property in which we have an interest, as determined by our general partner with the advice of counsel. In certain circumstances set forth in our partnership agreement, units held by an ineligible holder may be redeemed by us at the then-current market price, which is the average of the daily closing prices for the 20 consecutive trading days immediately prior to the redemption date. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20.0% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by a provision of our partnership agreement providing that any units held by a person that owns 20.0% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot be used to vote on any matter.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. For example, unlike holders of stock in a public corporation, unitholders will not have \"say-on-pay\" advisory voting rights. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner and will have no right to elect our general partner or the board of directors of our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by the member of our general partner, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of SPLC. Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which our common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent.. Unitholders will be unable initially to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding common units is required to remove our general partner.. Furthermore, unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20.0% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. 39. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of SPLC to transfer all or a portion of its general partner interest or its ownership interest in our general partner to a third party. Our general partner, or the new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with its own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions made by the board of directors and officers.. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party, it will have less incentive to grow our cash flows and increase distributions. A transfer of incentive distribution rights by our general partner could reduce the likelihood of Shell or SPLC selling or contributing additional assets to us, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests.. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders, and our unitholders will have no preemptive or other rights (solely as a result of their status as unitholders) to purchase any such limited partner interests. Further, there are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities that rank equal or senior to our common units as to distributions or in liquidation or that have special voting rights and other rights. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash we have available to distribute on each unit may decrease;. • because the amount payable to holders of incentive distribution rights is based on a percentage of total available cash, the distributions to holders of incentive distribution rights will increase even if the per unit distribution on common units remains the same;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of our common units may decline.. SPLC may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.. As of December 31, 2017, SPLC held 88,950,136 common units and no subordinated units. On February 17, 2017, all of the subordinated units converted into common units following the payment of the cash distribution for the fourth quarter of 2016. Additionally, we have agreed to provide SPLC with certain registration rights under applicable securities laws. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the price of the common units or on any trading market that may develop.. Our general partner's discretion in establishing cash reserves may reduce the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus the cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits the general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash we have available to distribute to unitholders.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 75.0% of our then-outstanding common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less. 40. than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price, as calculated pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. As of December 31, 2017, our general partner and its affiliates owned approximately 47.4% of our common units.. Our general partner, or any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights, may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of our general partner or our unitholders. This election may result in lower distributions to our common unitholders in certain situations.. The holder or holders of a majority of the incentive distribution rights, which is initially our general partner, have the right, at any time when the holders have received incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (48% in addition to distributions paid on its 2% general partner interest) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters (and the aggregate amounts distributed in respect of such four-quarter period did not exceed adjusted operating surplus for such four-quarter period), to reset the minimum quarterly distribution and the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our cash distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election, the minimum quarterly distribution will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution per unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the \"reset minimum quarterly distribution\"), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. Our general partner has the right to transfer the incentive distribution rights at any time, in whole or in part, and any transferee holding a majority of the incentive distribution rights shall have the same rights as our general partner with respect to resetting target distributions.. In the event of a reset of the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels, the holders of the incentive distribution rights will be entitled to receive, in the aggregate, the number of common units equal to that number of common units which would have entitled the holders to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will also be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain the same percentage general partner interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal expansion projects that would not otherwise be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit. It is possible, however, that our general partner or a transferee could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may therefore desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distribution payments based on target distribution levels that are less certain to be achieved in the then-current business environment. This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets. Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner. Our partnership agreement permits our general partner to limit its liability, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability. In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf. Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replace those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any. 41. interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its other affiliates;. • whether to exercise its limited call right;. • whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. • whether to exercise its registration rights;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels;. • whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement.. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common units.. We are required to disclose material changes made in our internal control over financial reporting on a quarterly basis and we are required to assess the effectiveness of our controls annually. An effective system of internal controls is necessary for us to provide reliable and timely financial reports, prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded partnership. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, but our internal accounting controls may not meet all standards applicable to companies with publicly traded securities. Our efforts to develop and maintain our system of internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. For example, Section 404 requires us, among other things, to annually review and report on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to develop, implement or maintain our effective internal controls or the failure to improve our system of internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with Section 404. Any failure to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting will subject us to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common units.. Unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. We are organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. A unitholder could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if a unitholder were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that (i) we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or (ii) a unitholder's right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Transferees of common units. 42. are liable both for the obligations of the transferor to make contributions to us that are known to the transferee at the time of the transfer and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from our partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Because we are a publicly traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee. Additionally, any future issuance of additional common units or other securities, including to affiliates, will not be subject to the NYSE's shareholder approval rules that apply to a corporation. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance in this report.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, or if we were otherwise subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently 21% (changed from 35% under the recently enacted tax reform law), and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. In addition, several states are evaluating changes to current law which could subject us to additional entity-level taxation and further reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution levels may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, such a proposal could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted or will materially change interpretations of the current law, but it is possible that a change in law could affect us and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. Any such changes would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows, ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders and the value of an investment in our common units.. Our unitholders are required to pay income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. 43. A unitholders' share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, transactions in which we engage or changes in law and may be substantially different from any estimate we make in connection with a unit offering.. A unitholders' allocable share of our taxable income will be taxable to it, which may require the unitholder to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, even if the unitholder receives cash distributions from us that are less than the actual tax liability that results from that income or no cash distribution at all.. A unitholders' share of our taxable income, and its relationship to any distributions we make, may be affected by a variety of factors, including our economic performance, which may be affected by numerous business, economic, regulatory, legislative, competitive and political uncertainties beyond our control, and certain transactions in which we might engage. For example, we may engage in transactions that produce substantial taxable income allocations to some or all of our unitholders without a corresponding increase in cash distributions to our unitholders, such as a sale or exchange of assets, the proceeds of which are reinvested in our business or used to reduce our debt, or an actual or deemed satisfaction of our indebtedness for an amount less than the adjusted issue price of the debt. A unitholders' ratio of its share of taxable income to the cash received by it may also be affected by changes in law. For instance, under the recently enacted tax reform law known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\", the net interest expense deductions of which business entities, including us, are limited to 30% of such entity's \"adjusted taxable income,\" which is generally taxable income with certain modifications. If the limit applies, a unitholders' taxable income allocations will be more (or its net loss allocations will be less) than would have been the case absent the limitation.. From time to time, in connection with an offering of our units, we may state an estimate of the ratio of federal taxable income to cash distributions that a purchaser of units in that offering may receive in a given period. These estimates depend in part on factors that are unique to the offering with respect to which the estimate is stated, so the expected ratio applicable to other units will be different, and in many cases less favorable, than these estimates. Moreover, even in the case of units purchased in the offering to which the estimate relates, the estimate may be incorrect, due to the uncertainties described above, challenges by the IRS to tax reporting positions which we adopt, or other factors. The actual ratio of taxable income to cash distributions could be higher or lower than expected, and any differences could be material and could materially affect the value of the common units.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution.. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which our common units trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell common units, the unitholders will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease the unitholder's tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units a unitholder sells will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such common units at a price greater than its tax basis in those common units, even if the price received is less than its original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, a unitholder that sells common units may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income (\"UBTI\") and will be taxable to them. Under the recently enacted tax reform act known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\", an exempt organization will be required to independently compute its UBTI from each separate unrelated trade or business which may prevent an exempt organization from utilizing losses we allocate to the organization against the organization's UBTI from other sources and vice versa. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and applicable state tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income.. 44. Under the recently enacted tax reform law, if a unitholder sells or otherwise disposes of a common unit, the transferee is required to withhold 10.0% of the amount realized by the transferor unless the transferor certifies that it is not a foreign person, and we are required to deduct and withhold from the transferee amounts that should have been withheld by the transferee but were not withheld. However, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS have determined that this withholding requirement should not apply to any disposition of a publicly traded interest in a publicly traded partnership (such as us) until regulations or other guidance have been issued clarifying the application of this withholding requirement to dispositions of interests in publicly traded partnerships. Accordingly, while this new withholding requirement does not currently apply to interests in us, there can be no assurance that such requirement will not apply in the future.. We will treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of the Treasury recently adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such final regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it (and some states) may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after 2017, it may collect any resulting taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us. We will generally have the ability to shift any such tax liability to our general partner and our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so (and will choose to do so) under all circumstances, or that we will be able to (or choose to) effect corresponding shifts in state income or similar tax liability resulting from the IRS adjustment in states in which we do business in the year under audit or in the adjustment year. If we make payments of taxes, penalties and interest resulting from audit adjustments, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. In the event the IRS makes an audit adjustment to our income tax returns and we do not or cannot shift the liability to our unitholders in accordance with their interests in us during the year under audit, we will generally have the ability to request that the IRS reduce the determined underpayment by reducing the suspended passive loss carryovers of our unitholders (without any compensation from us to such unitholders), to the extent such underpayment is attributable to a net decrease in passive activity losses allocable to certain partners. Such reduction, if approved by the IRS, will be binding on any affected unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a \"short seller\" to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax. 45. purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.  The IRS may challenge these methodologies, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. If our assets were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to you.. If our assets are subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, our cash available for a distribution to you would be reduced. States are continually evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. We currently own assets and conduct business in certain states which impose an entity-level tax on partnerships, including Illinois, Texas, and Washington. Imposition of an entity-level  tax on us in other jurisdictions in which we do business, or to which we expand our operations, could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to you. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or an existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to entity-level taxation, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. As a result of investing in our common units, unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future. Unitholders may be subject to such taxes, even if they do not live in the jurisdiction imposing the tax. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in a number of states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals, and most of which also impose an income or similar tax on corporations and certain other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose an income tax or similar tax. In certain states, tax losses may not produce a tax benefit in the year incurred and also may not be available to offset income in subsequent tax years. Some states may require us, or we may elect, to withhold a percentage of income from amounts to be distributed to a unitholder who is not a resident of the state. Withholding, the amount of which may be greater or less than a particular unitholders' income tax liability to the state, generally does not relieve a nonresident unitholder from the obligation to file an income tax return. Amounts withheld may be treated as if distributed to unitholders for purposes of determining the amounts distributed by us. It is each unitholder's responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns required by applicable law to be filed by such unitholder. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. Prospective unitholders should consult their own tax advisors regarding such matters.. Entity level taxes on income from C corporation subsidiaries will reduce cash available for distribution, and an individual unitholder's share of dividend and interest income from such subsidiaries would constitute portfolio income that could not be offset by the unitholder's share of our other losses or deductions.. A portion of our taxable income is earned through LOCAP, Explorer and Colonial, which are all C corporations. Such C corporations are subject to federal income tax on their taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently 21.0%, and will likely pay state (and possibly local) income tax at varying rates, on their taxable income. Any such entity level taxes will. 46. reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Distributions from any such C corporation will generally be taxed again to unitholders as dividend income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits of such C corporation. As of December 31, 2017, the maximum federal income tax rate applicable to such qualified dividend income that is allocable to individuals was 20.0%. An individual unitholders' share of dividend and interest income from LOCAP, Explorer, Colonial or other C corporation subsidiaries would constitute portfolio income that could not be offset by the unitholders' share of our other losses or deductions."
