[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.  The risks set forth under \"Business\" and the following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business. The following risks (or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial) could materially affect our financial results and conditions.. Risks Related to the Telecommunications Industry. Intensifying competition in all segments of our business may limit our ability to sustain profitable operations.. As new technologies are developed and deployed by competitors in our service area, some of our subscribers may select other providers' offerings based on price, capabilities or personal preferences.  Most of our competitors possess greater resources, have more extensive coverage areas and offer more services than we do.  If significant numbers of our subscribers elect to move to competing providers, or if market saturation limits the rate of new subscriber additions, we may not be able to sustain profitable operations.. Nationwide, incumbent local exchange carriers have experienced a decrease in access lines due to the effect of wireless and wireline competition.  We have experienced reductions in the number of access lines to date, and based on industry experience we anticipate that the long-term trend toward declining telephone subscriber counts will continue.  There is a significant risk that this downward trend will have a material adverse effect on the Company's landline telephone operations in the future.. The Company's revenue from fiber leases may be adversely impacted by price competition for these facilities.. Alternative technologies, changes in the regulatory environment and current uncertainties in the marketplace may reduce future demand for existing telecommunication services.. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences.  Technological advances, industry changes, changes in the regulatory environment and the availability of additional spectrum or additional flexibility with respect to the use of currently available spectrum could cause the technology we use to become obsolete.  We and our vendors may not be able to respond to such changes and implement new technology on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost.. Adverse economic conditions in the United States and in our market area involving significantly reduced consumer spending could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Sprint's subscribers are individual consumers and businesses. Any national economic weakness, restricted credit markets or high unemployment rates could depress consumer spending and harm our operating performance.  In addition, Sprint's subscribers are located in a relatively concentrated geographic area; therefore, any material adverse economic conditions that affect our geographic markets in particular could have a disproportionately negative impact on our results.. Regulation by government and taxing agencies may increase our costs of providing service or require changes in services, either of which could impair our financial performance.. Our operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, the Federal Trade Commission, the FAA, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, as well as by state and local regulatory agencies and franchising authorities.  Action by these regulatory bodies could negatively affect our operations and our costs of doing business.  For example, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws by state and local authorities could increase income, sales, property or other tax costs.. 19. Table of Contents. Our access revenue may be adversely impacted by legislative or regulatory actions or by technology developments that decrease access rates or exempt certain traffic from paying for access to our regulated telephone network.. On October 27, 2011, the FCC adopted a number of broad changes to the intercarrier compensation rules governing the interstate access rates charged by small-to-mid-sized ILECs such as Shenandoah Telephone.  For example, the FCC adopted a national \"bill and keep\" framework, which may result in substantial reductions in the access charges paid by long distance carriers and other interconnecting carriers, possibly to zero, accompanied by increases to the subscriber line charges paid by business and residential end users. In addition, the FCC has changed some of the rules that determine what compensation carriers, including but not limited to wireless carriers, competitive local exchange carriers, VoIP providers and providers of other Internet-enabled services, should pay (and receive) for their traffic that is interconnected with ILEC networks.  More recently, the FCC initiated a further proceeding to consider whether additional changes to interconnection obligations are needed, including how and where companies interconnect their networks with the networks of other providers. These changes, and potential future changes, to such compensation regulations could increase our expenses or further reduce our revenues. In addition, the Company is working to resolve several routine interconnection and intercarrier compensation-related disputes concerning the appropriate access rates and terms for the origination and termination of traffic on third-party networks.. Our distribution networks may be subject to weather-related events that may damage our networks and adversely impact our ability to deliver promised services or increase costs related to such events.. Our distribution networks may be subject to weather-related events that could damage our networks and impact service delivery. Some published reports predict that warming global temperatures will increase the frequency and severity of such weather-related events.  Should such predictions be correct or for other reasons there are more weather-related events, and should such events impact the Mid-Atlantic region covered by our networks more frequently than in the past, our revenues and expenses could be materially adversely impacted.. Risks Related to our Overall Business Strategy. We may not benefit from our acquisition strategy.. As part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities to enhance the value of the Company by pursuing acquisitions of other businesses.  Although we remain subject to financial and other covenants in our credit agreement that may limit our ability to pursue certain strategic opportunities, we intend to continue to evaluate and, when appropriate, pursue strategic acquisition opportunities as they arise. We cannot provide any assurance, however, with respect to the timing, likelihood, size or financial effect of any potential transaction involving the Company, as we may not be successful in identifying and consummating any acquisition or in integrating any newly acquired business into our operations.. The evaluation of business acquisition opportunities and the integration of any acquired businesses pose a number of significant risks, including the following:. • acquisitions may place significant strain on our management, financial and other resources by requiring us to expend a substantial amount of time and resources in the pursuit of acquisitions that we may not complete, or to devote significant attention to the various integration efforts of any newly acquired businesses, all of which will require the allocation of limited resources;. • acquisitions may not have a positive impact on our cash flows or financial performance;. • even if acquired companies eventually contribute to an increase in our cash flows or profitability, such acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results in the short term as a result of transaction-related expenses we will have to pay or the higher operating and administrative expenses we may incur in the periods immediately following an acquisition as we seek to integrate the acquired business into our operations;. • we may not be able to realize anticipated synergies or eliminate as many anticipated redundant costs;. 20. Table of Contents. • our operating and financial systems and controls and information services may not be compatible with those of the companies we may acquire and may not be adequate to support our integration efforts, and any steps we take to improve these systems and controls may not be sufficient;. • our business plans and projections used to justify the acquisitions and expansion investments are based on assumptions of revenues per subscriber, penetration rates in specific markets where we operate and expected operating costs.  These assumptions may not develop as projected, which may negatively impact our profitability or the value of our intangible assets;. • growth through acquisitions will increase our need for qualified personnel, who may not be available to us or, if they were employed by a business we acquire, remain with us after the acquisition; and. • acquired businesses may have unexpected liabilities and contingencies, which could be significant.. Our ability to comply with the financial covenants in our credit agreement depends primarily on our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow.. Our ability to comply with the financial covenants under the agreement governing our secured credit facilities will depend primarily on our success in generating sufficient operating cash flow. Under our credit agreement, we are subject to a total leverage ratio covenant, a minimum debt service coverage ratio covenant and a minimum liquidity test. Industry conditions and financial, business and other factors, including those we identify as risk factors in this and our other reports, will affect our ability to generate the cash flows we need to satisfy those financial tests and ratios. Our failure to satisfy the tests or ratios could result in a default and acceleration of repayment of the indebtedness under our credit facilities. If the maturity of our indebtedness were accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay such indebtedness. In such event, to the extent permitted by our credit agreement and applicable law, our lenders would be entitled to proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness, which includes substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and ability to compete.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $836.5 million of total indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important adverse consequences. For example, it may:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate increases, because as of December 31, 2017, a significant portion of our borrowings were, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds to alleviate liquidity constraints, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit agreement;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness.. In addition, our secured credit facilities impose operating and financial restrictions that limit our discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for us to expand, finance our operations and engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. These restrictions limit our ability and that of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets;. • engage in certain mergers or acquisitions or asset dispositions;. • pay dividends or make other distributions;. 21. Table of Contents. • voluntarily prepay other indebtedness;. • enter into transactions with affiliated persons;. • make certain investments; and. • change the nature of our business.. In addition to the term loan secured indebtedness we have incurred and the $75 million of revolving credit indebtedness we may draw against from time to time, we may incur additional indebtedness under our credit facilities. Any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future may subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions.. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness in the future, should circumstances require it, will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations and to raise additional funds, including through the offering of equity or debt securities and through our access to bank debt markets. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to raise additional funds in amounts necessary for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs.. Disruptions of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business.. We depend on our information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. A disruption of our infrastructure could be caused by a natural disaster, manufacturing failure, telecommunications system failure, cybersecurity attack, intrusion or incident, or defective or improperly installed new or upgraded business management systems. Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. In the event of any such disruption, we may be unable to conduct our business in the normal course. Moreover, our business involves the processing, storage and transmission of data, which would also be negatively affected by such an event. A disruption of our infrastructure could cause us to lose customers and revenue, particularly during a period of heavy demand for our services. We also could incur significant expense in repairing system damage and taking other remedial measures.. We could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber-attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third parties.. We utilize our information technology infrastructure to manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations.  We routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our customers, including sensitive and personally identifiable information.  We depend on our information technology infrastructure to conduct business operations and provide customer services.  We may be subject to data breaches and disruptions of the information technology systems we use for these purposes.  Our industry has witnessed an increase in the number, intensity and sophistication of cybersecurity incidents caused by hackers and other malicious actors such as foreign governments, criminals, hacktivists, terrorists and insider threats.  Hackers and other malicious actors may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential, sensitive, personal or proprietary information, or that of third parties, and engage in the unauthorized use or dissemination of such information.  They may be able to create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. Hackers and other malicious actors may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our systems. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including \"bugs,\" cybersecurity vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation or security of our systems.. The consequences of a breach of our security measures, a cyber-related service or operational disruption, or a breach of personal, confidential, proprietary or sensitive data caused by a hacker or other malicious actor could be significant for us, our customers and other affected third parties.  For example, the consequences could include damage to infrastructure and property, impairment of business operations, disruptions to customer service, financial costs and harm to our liquidity, costs associated with remediation, loss of revenues, loss of customers, competitive. 22. Table of Contents. disadvantage, legal expenses associated with litigation, regulatory action, fines or penalties or damage to our brand and reputation.. In addition, the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security challenges and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber incident could be significant.  In addition, our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service. We could also lose existing or potential customers for our services in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in the services.. We are subject to laws, rules and regulations relating to the collection, use and security of user data. Our operations are also subject to federal and state laws governing information security.  In the event of a data breach or operational disruption caused by an information security incident, such rules may require consumer and government agency notification and may result in regulatory enforcement actions with the potential of monetary forfeitures as well as civil litigation.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards and contractual obligations.. Negative outcomes of legal proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial conditions.. We may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time. These proceedings may be complicated, costly and disruptive to our business operations. We might also incur significant expenses in defending these matters or may be required to pay significant fines, awards and settlements. Any of these potential outcomes, such as judgments, awards, settlements or orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, operating results or our ability to do business.. Our balance sheet contains certain intangible assets including goodwill that we may be required to write off or write down in the future in the event of the impairment of certain of those assets arising from any deterioration in our future performance or other circumstances.  Such write-offs or write-downs could adversely impact our earnings and stock price, and our ability to obtain financing in the future.. At December 31, 2017, we had $146.5 million in goodwill and $381.0 million of other intangible assets capitalized on our balance sheet, which collectively represented 37.4% of our total assets at that date.. We test our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment annually or when events or circumstances warrant.  If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the intangible asset and the fair value of the intangible asset, in the period in which the determination is made.. We may be required in the future to write off or write down certain intangible assets including goodwill in the event of deterioration in our future performance, sustained slower growth or other circumstances.  Such a write-off or write-down could adversely impact our earnings and market price of our common stock, and our ability to obtain financing in the future.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that, if not properly corrected, could materially adversely affect our operations and result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. In accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we, along with our independent registered public accounting firm, are required to report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Failure to design and maintain effective internal control could constitute a material weakness which could result in inaccurate financial statements, inaccurate disclosures or failure to prevent fraud.. As of December 31, 2017, we did not maintain an effective control environment attributable to certain identified material weaknesses. We describe these material weaknesses in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These control deficiencies create a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, and therefore we concluded that the deficiencies represent material weaknesses in the Company's internal control over financial reporting and our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2017.    The existence of these or other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and stock price.. 23. Table of Contents. We have an underfunded non-contributory defined benefit pension plan.. Through our acquisition of nTelos, we assumed nTelos' non-contributory defined benefit pension plan and other post-retirement benefit plans, covering all employees who met eligibility requirements and were employed by nTelos prior to October 1, 2003.  This pension plan was closed to nTelos employees hired on or after October 1, 2003.  As of December 31, 2017, the plan was underfunded by approximately $5.6 million. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, included with the Notes to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the accounting for the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We do not expect that we will be required to make a cash contribution to the underfunded pension plan in 2018, but we may be required to make cash contributions in future periods depending on the level of interest rates and investment returns on plan assets.. Increases in our costs of providing benefits under our non-contributory defined benefit pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows.. The measurement of the plan obligations and costs of providing benefits under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans involves various factors, including the development of valuation assumptions and accounting policy elections. We are required to make assumptions and estimates that include the discount rate applied to benefit obligations, the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets, the anticipated rate of increase of health care costs, our expected level of contributions to the plan, the incidence of mortality, the expected remaining service period of plan participants, the level of compensation and rate of compensation increases, employee age, length of service, and the long-term expected investment rate credited to employees of certain plans, among other factors. If our benefit plans' costs increase, due to adverse changes in the U.S. securities markets, resulting in worse-than-assumed investment returns and discount rates, and adverse medical cost trends, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted by the United States Congress in December 2017, lowered the federal corporate income tax rate and eliminated the federal corporate alternative minimum tax which will result in the reduction of our net deferred tax liability and a corresponding increase/benefit against earnings.. The net deferred tax liability reported on the Company's balance sheet represents the net amount of income taxes expected to be paid upon the reversal of temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by enacted tax laws, and their bases as reported in the financial statements as of December 31, 2017. The Company's net deferred tax liabilities were computed using the federal statutory rate of 21%. Lowering the federal corporate income tax rate from its current level of 35% to 21% and eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax required the Company's net deferred tax liabilities to be re-measured. The remeasurement resulted in a reduction of the deferred tax liability in the period of the law change and was an increase to earnings. See Note 15, Income Taxes, included with the Notes to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.. Risks Relating to the Recently Completed Acquisition of nTelos Holding Corp. and Exchange with Sprint. In connection with the nTelos acquisition, we incurred significant additional indebtedness, which could materially and adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility.. We have substantially increased indebtedness upon completion of the nTelos acquisition, which has increased our interest expense and amortization requirements and could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions.  The amount of cash required to pay interest on our increased indebtedness and the increased amortization requirements to pay down the loan balances following the nTelos acquisition, and thus the demands on our cash resources, is greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness prior to the nTelos acquisition.  Our increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels.  If we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the nTelos acquisition, or if the financial performance of the combined company does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service this indebtedness may be materially and adversely impacted.. 24. Table of Contents. Risks Related to the Wireless Industry. New disclosure or usage requirements could adversely affect the results of our wireless operations.. The FCC may impose additional consumer protection requirements upon wireless service providers, including billing-related disclosures and usage alerts. Such requirements could increase costs related to or impact the amount of revenue we receive from our wireless services.. Customer concerns over radio frequency emissions may discourage use of wireless handsets or expose us to potential litigation.. In the past, media reports and certain professional studies have suggested that certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health problems, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers.  Additionally, the FCC has in the past commenced rulemakings and inquiries that seek public comment on a variety of issues, including whether revisions to the existing radio frequency standards and testing requirements are warranted.  Any decrease in demand for wireless services, increases in the costs of litigation or damage awards resulting from substantiation of harm from such emissions could impair our financial condition and results of operations.. Regulation by governmental authorities or potential litigation relating to the use of wireless handsets while driving could adversely affect the results of our wireless operations.. Some studies have indicated that some aspects of using wireless handsets while driving may impair driver's attention in certain circumstances, making accidents more likely.  These concerns could lead to litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries, or to new restrictions or regulations on wireless phone use.  A number of state and local governments are considering or have enacted legislation that would restrict or prohibit the use of a wireless handset while driving a vehicle or, alternatively, require the use of a hands-free handset.  Additionally, certain federal agencies have adopted rules and proposed guidelines for the use of wireless handsets while operating commercial and non-commercial vehicles.  These rules, and any legislation that could be enacted, may require wireless service providers to supply to their subscribers hands-free enhanced services, such as voice-activated dialing and hands-free speaker phones and headsets, in order to continue generating revenue from subscribers, who make many of their calls while on the road.  If we are unable to provide hands-free services and products to subscribers in a timely and adequate fashion, the volume of wireless phone usage would likely decrease, and the ability of our wireless operations to generate revenues would suffer.. Risks Related to our Wireless Services. The performance of our wireless service provider Shenandoah Personal Communications, LLC, our largest operating subsidiary in terms of revenues and assets, may be adversely affected by any interruption in, or other adverse change to, Sprint's business.. We rely significantly on Sprint's ongoing operations to continue to offer wireless subscribers in our affiliated service area the seamless national services that we currently provide.  Any interruption in, or other adverse change to, Sprint's business could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.  Our business could also be adversely affected if competing national or regional wireless carriers are able to introduce new products and services or otherwise satisfy customers' service demands more rapidly or more effectively than Sprint.. The costs associated with our ongoing participation in Sprint's network upgrade and expansion plans may affect our operating results, liquidity and financial position.. Sprint continues to upgrade and expand its wireless network with the intention of improving voice quality, coverage and data speeds and simultaneously reducing future operating costs.  We participate in this plan and, to date, we have made significant upgrades in our service areas, but ongoing modernization efforts are expected to continue.. The continuing success of Sprint's upgrade and expansion plans will depend on the timing, extent and cost of implementation and the performance of third parties. Should Sprint's implementation plan be delayed, our margins could be adversely affected and such effects could be material.  Should Sprint's future delivery of services expected to be deployed on the upgraded network be delayed, it could potentially result in the loss of Sprint's subscribers to our competitors and adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations.. 25. Table of Contents. Our business may suffer as a result of competitive pressures.. Our revenue growth is primarily dependent on the growth of Sprint wireless subscribers and monthly recurring charges to these users.  Competitive pressures in the wireless services industry have increased. These competitive pressures in the wireless telecommunications market has caused some major carriers to offer unlimited plans at lower prices. Increased price competition could lead to lower monthly recurring charges or a loss of subscribers in the future. Continued competitive pressures could require Sprint to lower its prices, which will limit growth in monthly recurring charges to subscribers and could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows from operations.. We may not be able to implement our business plan successfully if our operating costs are higher than we anticipate.. Increased competition may lead to higher promotional costs to acquire Sprint's subscribers.  If these costs are more than we anticipate, the actual amount of funds available to implement our operating strategy and business plan may fall short of our estimates.. The dynamic nature of the wireless market may limit management's ability to correctly identify causes of volatility in key operating performance measures.. Our business plan and estimated future operating results are based on estimates of key operating performance measures, including subscriber growth, subscriber turnover, commonly known as churn, average monthly revenue per subscriber, equipment revenue, subscriber acquisition costs and other operating costs.  Continued moves by all carriers to offer installment billing and leasing for wireless handsets will have an effect on revenues, cost of goods sold and churn. The dynamic nature of the wireless market, economic conditions, increased competition in the wireless telecommunications industry, the entry of potential new competitors due to past or future FCC spectrum auctions, new service offerings by Sprint or competitors at lower prices and other issues facing the wireless telecommunications industry in general have created a level of uncertainty that may adversely affect our ability to predict these key measures of performance.. We may experience a high rate of affiliate subscriber turnover, in our territory, which could adversely affect our future financial performance.. Subscriber turnover, or churn, has been relatively stable in recent years.  Because of significant competition in the industry, the popularity of prepaid wireless service offerings, and unlimited postpaid plans, changes to Sprint's competitive position and economic uncertainty, among other factors, this relative stability may not continue and the future rate of subscriber turnover may be higher than in recent periods.. A high rate of churn could increase the sales and marketing costs we incur in obtaining new subscribers, especially because, consistent with industry practice, even with the introduction of wireless handset installment billing and leasing, we expect to continue to subsidize a portion of the costs related to the purchases of wireless handsets by some subscribers.. If we are unable to secure and retain tower sites, the level of service we provide could be adversely affected.. Many of our cell sites are co-located on leased tower facilities shared with one or more wireless providers.  A large portion of these leased tower sites are owned by a limited number of companies.  If economic conditions adversely affect the leasing company, then our ability to enter into leases at new locations may be affected, which could leave portions of our service area without service and increase subscriber turnover or adversely affect our ability to expand into new geographic areas.. Most of the towers that we own are located on leased real property.  If such leases are not renewed, we may have to relocate those cell sites, which would create significant additional expenses, or leave portions of our service area without service, increasing the likelihood of subscriber turnover.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Sprint. Sprint may make business decisions that are not in our best interests, which may adversely affect our business and our relationships with subscribers in our territory, increase our expenses and decrease our revenues.. Under its agreements with us, Sprint has a substantial amount of control over the operations of our wireless business.  Accordingly, Sprint may make decisions that could adversely affect our wireless business, such as the following:. • Sprint could price its national plans based on its own objectives and could set price levels or other terms that may not be economically advantageous for us;. • Sprint could develop products and services that could adversely affect our results of operations;. • if Sprint's costs to perform certain services exceed the costs they expect, subject to limitations under our Sprint Affiliate Agreement, Sprint could seek to increase the amounts charged to us for such services;. • Sprint could make decisions that could adversely affect the Sprint brand names, reputation, or products or services, which could adversely affect our business;. • Sprint could make technology and network decisions that could greatly increase our capital investment requirements and our operating costs to continue offering the seamless service we provide;. • Sprint could restrict our ability to offer new services needed to remain competitive.  This could put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other wireless service providers if those other wireless service providers begin offering those new services in our market areas, increasing our churn, adversely affecting our ability to obtain new subscribers and reducing our revenues and operating income from wireless services; and. • Sprint may not be able to provide the amount of spectrum that is necessary to adequately operate our business.. Our dependence on Sprint for services may limit our ability to forecast operating results.. Our dependence on Sprint injects a degree of uncertainty into our business and financial planning.  We may, at times, disagree with Sprint concerning the applicability, calculation approach, or accuracy of Sprint-supplied revenue data.. We are subject to risks relating to Sprint's provision of back office services and to changes in Sprint's products, services, plans and programs.. Any failure by Sprint to provide high-quality back-office services could lead to subscriber dissatisfaction, increased churn or otherwise increased costs or loss of revenue.  We rely on Sprint's internal support systems, including customer care, billing and back-office support.  Our operations could be disrupted if Sprint is unable to provide or expand its internal support systems while maintaining acceptable service levels, or to efficiently outsource those services and systems through third-party vendors.. In addition, restrictions exist, and new restrictions are considered from time to time by Congress, federal agencies and states. Our reliance on Sprint to perform those functions could subject us to potential liabilities.. The competitiveness of Sprint's wireless products and services is a key factor in our ability to attract and retain subscribers.  Changes in Sprint's wireless products and services may reduce subscriber additions, increase subscriber churn and decrease subscriber credit quality.. 27. Table of Contents. Sprint's roaming arrangements to provide service outside of the Sprint National Network may not be competitive with other wireless service providers, which may restrict our ability to attract and retain subscribers and may increase our costs of doing business.. We rely on Sprint's roaming arrangements with other wireless service providers for coverage in areas where Sprint wireless service is not available.  If customers are not able to roam quickly or efficiently onto other wireless networks, we may lose current subscribers and Sprint wireless services may be less attractive to new subscribers.. The risks related to our roaming arrangements include the following:. • the quality of the service provided by another provider while roaming may not approximate the quality of the service provided by the Sprint wireless network;. • the price of a roaming call off network may not be competitive with prices of other wireless companies for roaming calls, or may not be \"commercially reasonable\" (as determined by the FCC);. • customers may not be able to use Sprint's advanced features, such as voicemail notification, while roaming; and. • Sprint or the carriers providing the service may not be able to provide accurate billing information on a timely basis.. Some provisions of the Sprint agreements may diminish the value of our common stock and restrict or diminish the value of our business.. Under limited circumstances involving non-renewal of our agreement or a breach by us, Sprint may purchase the operating assets of our wireless operations at a discount of 10% in the event of non-renewal, or 19% in the event of a breach. These discounts would be applied to the entire business value (EBV) as that term is defined in our agreement with Sprint: (i) the fair market value of a going concern paid by a willing buyer to a willing seller in a change of control transaction; (ii) valued as if the business will continue to utilize existing brands and operate under existing agreements; and, (iii) valued as if we have continued use of the spectrum then in use in the network.  Determination of EBV is made by an independent appraisal process.  In addition, Sprint must approve any assignment of the Sprint agreements by us.  Sprint also has a right of first refusal to purchase our wireless operating assets if we decide to sell those assets to a third party.  These restrictions and other restrictions contained in the Sprint agreements could adversely affect the value of our common stock, may limit our ability to sell our wireless operating assets on advantageous terms, may reduce the value a buyer would be willing to pay to acquire those assets and may reduce the EBV, as described in the Sprint agreements.. We may have difficulty in obtaining an adequate supply of wireless handsets from Sprint.. We depend on our relationship with Sprint to obtain wireless handsets.  Sprint orders wireless handsets from various manufacturers.  We could have difficulty obtaining specific types of wireless handsets in a timely manner if:. • Sprint does not adequately project the need for wireless handsets, or enter into arrangements for new types of wireless handsets or other customer equipment, for itself, its wireless affiliates and its other third-party distribution channels, particularly in connection with the transition to new technologies;. • Sprint gives preference to other distribution channels;. • we do not adequately project our need for wireless handsets;. • Sprint modifies its wireless handset logistics and delivery plan in a manner that restricts or delays access to wireless handsets; or. • there is an adverse development in the relationship between Sprint and its suppliers or vendors.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in a decrease in Sprint's subscribers or adversely affect our ability to attract new subscribers.. 28. Table of Contents. If Sprint does not continue to enhance its nationwide digital wireless network, we may not be able to attract and retain Sprint's subscribers.. Our wireless operations are dependent on Sprint's national network.  Sprint's digital wireless network may not provide nationwide coverage to the same extent as the networks of its competitors, which could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain Sprint's subscribers.  Sprint currently covers a significant portion of the population of the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  Sprint offers wireless services, either on its own network or through its roaming agreements, in every part of the United States.. If Sprint's wireless licenses are not renewed or are revoked, our wireless business would be harmed.. Non-renewal or revocation by the FCC of Sprint's wireless licenses would significantly harm us.  Wireless spectrum licenses are subject to renewal and revocation by the FCC.  There may be opposition to renewal of Sprint's wireless licenses upon their expiration, and Sprint's wireless licenses may not be renewed.  The FCC has adopted specific standards to apply to wireless license renewals.  Any failure by Sprint to comply with these standards could cause revocation or forfeiture of Sprint's wireless licenses.. If Sprint does not maintain control over its licensed spectrum, our Sprint agreements may be terminated, which would render us unable to continue providing service. Sprint may also need additional spectrum to keep up with customer demands and the availability and cost of this spectrum could impact our wireless business.. Risks Related to Our Cable Services. Our cable segment faces risks from increasing competition for the provision of video services, including competition resulting from new technologies.. Incumbent cable companies, which have historically provided video service, face competition from direct broadcast satellite providers, and more recently from large providers of wireline telecommunications services (such as Verizon, CenturyLink and AT&T), which have begun to upgrade their networks to provide video services in addition to voice and broadband services. Wireless providers are also entering the market for video services by making such services available on handsets and tablets.  In some areas, direct broadcast satellite providers have partnered with large incumbent telecommunications service providers to offer triple-play services.  Moreover, consumers are increasingly accessing video content from alternative sources, such as Internet-based \"over the top\" providers such as Netflix, Amazon, and Hulu, and applications.  The influx of competitors in this area, together with the development of new technologies to support them, are resulting in significant changes in the video business models and regulatory provisions that have applied to the provision of video and other services. These developments may lead to a decline in the demand, price and profitability of our cable and related video services.. Our programming costs are subject to demands for increased payments.. The cable television industry has continued to experience an increase in the cost of programming, especially sports programming retransmission fees.  In addition, as we add programming to our video services for existing customers or distribute existing programming to more customers, we incur increased programming expenses.  Broadcasters affiliated with major over-the-air network services have been increasing their demands for cash payments and other concessions for the right to carry local network television signals on our cable systems. If we are unable to raise our customers' rates, these increased programming costs could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.  Moreover, as our programming contracts and retransmission agreements with programming providers expire, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed on acceptable terms. The Copyright Office adopted rules in 2014 governing private audits of cable operators' compulsory copyright payments, and any resulting audits initiated by copyright owners could lead to demands for increased copyright payments.. Changes to key regulatory requirements can affect our ability to compete.. As programming and retransmission consent costs and retail rates increase, Congress and the FCC have expressed concern about the impact on consumers, and they could impose restrictions affecting cable rates and programming packages that could adversely impact our existing business model.. The Company operates cable television systems in largely rural areas of Virginia, West Virginia and Maryland.  Virginia has adopted legislation to make it easier for companies to obtain local franchises to provide cable television. 29. Table of Contents. service.  The FCC has adopted rules which substantially reduce the cost of obtaining a local franchise.  These rules may make it easier for the Company to expand its cable television business, but also may result in increased competition for such business.. Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance.  In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations.  Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed.  Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate.  Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal.  Our local franchises may not be renewed at expiration in which case we would have to cease operations or, operate under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities.  We cannot offer assurance that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our franchise agreements.  Additionally, although historically we have renewed our franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot offer assurance that we will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the future.  A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets or obtaining such franchise on unfavorable terms could adversely affect our business in the affected geographic area.. Pole attachments are wires and cables that are attached to utility poles.  Cable system attachments to investor-owned public utility poles historically have been regulated at the federal or state level, generally resulting in reasonable pole attachment rates for attachments used to provide cable service.  In contrast, utility poles owned by municipalities or cooperatives are not subject to federal regulation and are generally exempt from state regulation and their attachment rates tend to be higher. Future regulatory changes in this area could impact the pole attachment rates we pay utility companies. Some municipalities have enacted \"one-touch\" make-ready pole attachment ordinances, which permit third parties to alter components of our network attached to utility poles in ways that could adversely affect our businesses.  In 2017, the FCC initiated a rulemaking that considers rules to permit a \"one-touch\" make-ready-like process for the poles within its jurisdiction.  If adopted, these rules could have a similar effect as the municipal one-touch make-ready ordinances and adversely affect our businesses.. The FCC has periodically considered proposals for new regulations intended to make our cable set-top boxes open to other service providers. If enacted, such new regulations concerning set-top boxes could increase our cost for equipment, affect our relationship with our customers, and/or enable third parties to try to offer equipment that accesses disaggregated cable content merged with other services delivered over the Internet to compete with our premium service offerings.. Any significant impairment of our non-amortizing cable franchise rights would lead to a decrease in our assets and a reduction in our net operating performance.. At December 31, 2017, we had non-amortizing cable franchise rights of approximately $64.3 million which constituted approximately 4.6% of total assets at that date.  If we make changes in our business strategy or if market or other conditions adversely affect our cable operations, we may be forced to record an impairment charge, which would lead to a decrease in the carrying value of the Company's assets and reduction in our net operating performance.  We test non-amortizing intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred.  If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record an impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the non-amortizing intangible assets and the fair value of the non-amortizing intangible assets, in the period in which the determination is made.  The testing of non-amortizing intangible assets for impairment requires the Company to make significant estimates about the future performance and cash flows of our Cable segment, as well as other assumptions.  These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in underlying business operations, future reporting unit operating performance, changes in competition, or changes in technologies.  Any changes to key assumptions about our Cable segment's business and its future prospects, and actual performance compared with those assumptions, or other assumptions, could affect the fair value of our Cable segment non-amortizing intangibles, resulting in an impairment charge.. 30. Table of Contents. Risks Related To Our Broadband Services. Our broadband services may be adversely impacted by legislative or regulatory changes that affect our ability to develop and offer services or that could expose us to liability from customers or others.. The Company provides broadband Internet access services to its cable and telephone customers through cable modems and DSL. As the Internet has matured, it has become the subject of increasing regulatory interest.  Congress and Federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures directly or potentially affecting Internet use.  The adoption of new Internet regulations or policies could adversely affect our business.. In 2015, the FCC determined that broadband Internet access services, such as those we offer, were a form of \"telecommunications service\" under the Communications Act and, on that basis, imposed rules banning service providers from blocking access to lawful content, restricting data rates for downloading lawful content, prohibiting the attachment of non-harmful devices, giving special transmission priority to affiliates, and offering third parties the ability to pay for priority routing.  The 2015 rules also imposed a \"transparency\" requirement, i.e., an obligation to disclose all material terms and conditions of our service to consumers.. In December 2017, the FCC adopted an order repudiating its treatment of broadband as a \"telecommunications service,\" reclassifying broadband as an \"information service,\" and eliminating the 2015 rules other than the transparency requirement, which it eased in significant ways.  The FCC also ruled that state regulators may not impose obligations similar to federal obligations that the FCC removed. We expect that various parties will challenge the FCC's December 2017 ruling in court, and, we cannot predict how any such court challenges will be resolved.  Moreover, it is possible that the FCC might further revise its approach to broadband Internet access, or that Congress might enact legislation affecting the rules applicable to the service.. On January 29, 2015, the FCC, in a nation-wide proceeding evaluating whether \"advanced broadband\" is being deployed in a reasonable and timely fashion, increased the minimum connection speeds required to qualify as advanced broadband service to 25 Mbps for downloads and 3 Mbps for uploads.  As a result, the FCC concluded that advanced broadband was not being sufficiently deployed and initiated a new inquiry into what steps it might take to encourage broadband deployment.  This action may lead the FCC to adopt additional measures affecting our broadband business.  At the same time, the FCC has ongoing proceedings to allocate additional spectrum for advanced wireless service, which could provide additional wireless competition to our broadband business.. The FCC imposes obligations on telecommunications service providers, including broadband Internet access service providers, and multichannel video program distributors, like our cable company, intended to ensure that individuals with disabilities are able to access and use telecommunications and video programming services and equipment.  We cannot predict the nature and pace these requirements and other developments, or the impact they may have on our operations.. Risks Related to Our Voice Services. Offering voice communications service may subject us to additional regulatory burdens, causing us to incur additional costs.. We offer voice communications services over our cable broadband network and continue to develop and deploy VoIP services. The FCC has ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those we offer our customers, are entitled to interconnect with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensures that our VoIP services can compete in the market.  The scope of these interconnection rights are sometimes contested by third-party providers, which may affect our ability to compete in the provision of voice services or result in additional costs.  The FCC has also declared that certain VoIP services are not subject to traditional state public utility regulation. The full extent of the FCC preemption of state and local regulation of VoIP services is not yet clear.  Expanding our offering of these services may require us to obtain certain additional authorizations. We may not be able to obtain such authorizations in a timely manner, or conditions could be imposed upon such licenses or authorizations that may not be favorable to us. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to other significant regulation which could also be extended to VoIP providers. If additional telecommunications regulations are applied to our VoIP service, it could cause us to incur additional costs.. The FCC has already extended certain traditional telecommunications carrier requirements to many VoIP providers such as us, including E911, USF collection, CALEA, privacy of CPNI, number porting, rural call completion,. 31. Table of Contents. network outage reporting, disability access, rural call completion and discontinuance of service requirements. In November 2014, the FCC adopted an order imposing limited backup power obligations on providers of facilities-based fixed, residential voice services that are not otherwise line-powered, including our VoIP services.  This became effective for providers with fewer than 100,000 U.S. customer lines in August 2016 and now requires the Company to disclose certain information to customers and to make available back up power at the point of sale.. In November 2011, the FCC released an order significantly changing the rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers, including VoIP service providers like us. The Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the rules in May 2014. The new rules will result in a substantial decrease in intercarrier compensation payments over a multi-year period.  In addition, the transition of the Local Number Portability Administrator may impact our ability to manage number porting and related tasks, and/or may result in additional costs arising from the transition to a new administrator."
