[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS. We desire to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following factors have affected or could affect actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made. Investors should consider carefully the following risks and speculative factors inherent in and affecting the business of SCI and an investment in our common stock.. We have limited marketing and sales capabilities.. We continue to develop our marketing in Asia. We have a manufacturing representative for the Korean market and others for the Taiwanese and Chinese markets. We must continue to develop appropriate marketing, sales, technical, customer service and distribution capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to provide these services to successfully market our products. A failure to develop these capabilities or obtain third-party agreements could adversely affect us.. A substantial portion of our sales has been dependent upon one principal customer, the loss of whom could materially negatively affect the Company’s total sales.. One customer has grown to account for approximately 72% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Although this customer has been an on-going major customer of the Company for several years we do not have written agreements with this customer that require any minimum purchase obligations and the customer could stop buying the Company’s products at any time and for any reason. A reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from this customer or the loss of this customer could significantly reduce our future revenues and profits. We cannot provide assurance that this customer or any of our other current customers will continue to place orders, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers.. Our success depends on our ability to retain key management personnel.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, administrative, manufacturing, sales, and research and development personnel. Due to the specialized nature of our business, it may be difficult to locate and hire qualified personnel. The loss of services of one of our executive officers or other key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other executive officers or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Dan Rooney, our chief executive officer has an employment agreement with the Company that contains non-competition provisions as well as severance payments.  All other key management personnel have entered into non-competition agreements with the Company.  Although we have been successful in planning for and retaining highly capable and qualified successor management in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future.. We have a history of operating losses and may incur losses in the future.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had income from operations of $49,121 compared to loss from operations of $660,960 for the year ended December 31, 2016. We provide no assurances that we will be able to operate profitably in the future. Operating expenses were $1,528,430 and $1,745,361 during 2017 and 2016, respectively. This was a decrease of $216,931, or 12.4%. The Company reduced expenses through various cost-cutting measures. We continue to invest in developing new products for all of our markets including transparent conductive oxide systems within the thin film solar industry. We also have ongoing development efforts with our thin film battery materials and transparent electronic products. These efforts include accelerating time to market for those products and involve ongoing research and development expense.. 7. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $10,455,000. Management’s plans with respect to the objective of improving liquidity and profitability in future years include continuing to expand our business into new and current markets for our products, developing new products and increasing our revenue and presence in those markets. Management believes the actions that began during the last few years and continue today provide the opportunity for improved liquidity and profitability. However, no assurances are made that such actions will result in sustained profitability.. Our competitors have far greater financial and other resources than us.. The market for PVD materials is a substantial market with significant competition in both ceramic and metal materials. While we believe that our products enjoy certain competitive advantages in design, function, quality, and availability, considerable competition exists from well-established firms such as Materion Corporation, Kurt Lesker and Tosoh, all of which have more financial resources than us. We cannot provide assurance that developments by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or less competitive.. Our patents and proprietary rights may not be enforceable.. We rely on a combination of patent and trademark law, license agreements, internal procedures and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. These may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products may be produced or sold may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to protect our proprietary information could adversely affect us.. Rights we have to patents and pending patent applications may be challenged.. During 2016 we were granted a federal trademark for “SCI Engineered Materials” and during 2015 we were granted a federal trademark for “the Science of Engineered Materials”.. We have received, from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, a patent for Fine-Particle Bi-Sr-Ca-Cu-O Having High Phase Purity made by a Chemical Precipitation and Low-Pressure Calcination method, and have also received a patent for a process to join two individual strongly linked super-conductors utilizing a melt processing technique. In the future, we may submit additional patent applications covering various applications. The patent applications that we may file in the future may not result in patents being issued, and any patents issued may not afford meaningful protection against competitors with similar technology, and may be challenged by third parties.. Because U.S. patent applications are maintained in secret until patents are issued, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we may not be the first creator of inventions covered by issued patents or pending patent applications or the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Moreover, other parties may independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our technologies or, if patents are issued to us or rights licensed by us, design around the patented aspects of any technologies we developed or licensed. We may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of inventions, which could result in substantial costs. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce any patents held by or issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of others' proprietary rights, which could result in substantial costs.. The rapid technological changes of our industry may adversely affect us if we do not keep pace with advancing technology.. The PVD market is characterized by rapidly advancing technology. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with advancing technology and processes and industry standards. We have focused our development efforts on sputtering targets. We intend to continue to develop innovative materials and integrate those advances to the thin film coatings industry. However, our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by research efforts and technological advances made by others, and materials other than those we currently use may prove more advantageous.. 8. Additional development of our products may be necessary due to uncertainty regarding development of markets.. Some of our products are in the early stages of commercialization and we believe that it will be several years before these products will have significant commercial end-use applications, and that significant development work may be necessary to improve the commercial feasibility and acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to commercialize any of the products currently under development.. The market for the Thin Film Battery materials is still in development. At present, we have customers for the materials we produce for Thin Film Batteries.  Since we have begun producing materials for the Thin Film Battery market, we have experienced no problems securing the supplies needed to produce the materials.  We do not anticipate supply problems in the near future.  However, changes in production methods and advancing technologies could render our current products obsolete and new production protocols may require supplies that are less available in the marketplace, which may cause a slowing or complete halt to production as well as expanding costs which we may or may not be able to pass on to our customers. Some of our materials are in early stages of development for Thin Film Solar (TFS) applications. The TFS market is expected to grow during the next several years.. Changes in the strategies of key trade customers may adversely affect our business.. Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which continues to experience increased concentration. We may be negatively affected by changes in the strategies of our trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products, and other conditions. If we lose a key customer or if sales of our products to a key customer materially decrease, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. If Thin Film Solar technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales may not be sufficient to achieve profitability.. The Thin Film Solar energy market that we supply is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent to which thin film solar modules and flexible products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Although the industry has experienced rapid growth, overcapacity in the market created difficulties for some of our current and potential customers in the Thin Film Solar industry. Adoption of our products by parts of this market is important to our long term growth. If the technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption at economically attractive rates of return or if demand for Thin Film Solar modules fails to develop sufficiently or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow our business or generate sufficient sales to achieve profitability.. Our failure to comply with our debt covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our debt agreements contain certain covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the applicable agreement. In the past our lenders have granted us a waiver or amendment when we sought relief from covenants. If a default were to occur, we would likely seek a waiver of that default, attempt to reset the covenant, or refinance the instrument and accompanying obligations. If we were unable to obtain this relief, the default could result in the acceleration of the total due related to that debt obligation. If a default were to occur, we may not be able to pay our debts or borrow sufficient funds to refinance them. Any of these events, if they occur, could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We expect to retire the two remaining notes during 2018 that contain covenants.. A lack of credit and/or limited financing availability to the Company, its vendors, dealers, or end users could adversely affect our business.. Our liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if our ability to borrow money from new or existing lenders to finance our operations is reduced or eliminated. Similar adverse effects may also result if we realize reduced credit availability from trade creditors. Additionally, many of our customers require availability of financing to facilitate the purchase of our products. As a result, a continuing period of reduced credit availability in the marketplace could have adverse effects on our business.. 9. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our facility may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations with respect to our operations. These laws and regulations address various matters, including asbestos, fuel oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous wastes. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be substantial. For example, with respect to leased property, we may be held liable for costs relating to the investigation and cleanup of our leased property from which there has been a release or threatened release of a regulated material as well as other properties affected by the release. In addition to these costs, which are typically not limited by law or regulation and could exceed the property’s value, we could be liable for certain other costs, including, without limitation, governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural resources. Further, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. While we are not aware of any potential environmental problems, no assurances are made that such problems and costs associated with them will not arise in the future. If any of our properties were found to violate environmental laws, we may be required to expend significant amounts of time and money to rehabilitate the property, and we may be subject to significant liability. Any environmental compliance costs and liabilities incurred may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Disaster and other adverse events may seriously harm our business.. Our manufacturing facility may suffer harm as a result of natural or man-made disasters such as storms, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, terrorist attacks and other conditions. Such events may disrupt our operations, harm our operations and employees, severely damage or destroy our facility, harm our business, reputation and financial performance, or otherwise cause our business to suffer in ways that cannot currently be predicted.. Our business requires us to make capital expenditures to maintain and improve our facilities.. Our facilities sometimes require capital expenditures to address ongoing required maintenance and upgrade our capabilities. In addition, we often are required to make significant capital expenditures in order to satisfy customer requirements and to produce newly developed products.. Takeover defense provisions in Ohio law and our corporate governance documents may delay or prevent takeover attempts preventing our shareholders from realizing a premium on their stock.. Various provisions of the Ohio corporation laws as well as our corporate governance documents may inhibit changes in control not approved by our Board of Directors and may have the effect of depriving our investors of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include:. ·A requirement that a special meeting of the shareholders must be called by our Board of Directors, Chairman, the President or the holders of shares with voting powers of at least fifty percent (50%);. ·Advanced notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; and. ·The availability of “blank check preferred stock.”. Our Board of Directors can use these and other provisions to prevent, delay or discourage a change in control of the company or a change in our management. Any such delay or prevention of a change in control of management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a takeover transaction to which our shareholders could receive a substantial premium over the current market price of our common stock, which may in turn limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our common stock.. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations provide for indemnification of officers and directors which could require us to divert funds away from our business and operations.. Our Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations provide for the indemnification of our officers and directors. We may be required to advance costs incurred by an officer or director to pay judgments, fines and expenses incurred by an officer or director, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, as a result of actions or proceedings in which our officers and directors are involved by reason being or having been an officer or director of our company. Funds paid in satisfaction of judgments, fines, and expenses may be funds we need for operation and growth of our business.. 10. The market for our common stock is limited, and as such our shareholders may have difficulty reselling their shares when desired or at attractive market prices.. Our stock price, trading volume, and our listing may make it more difficult for our shareholders to resell shares when desired or at attractive prices. In 2001, our stock began trading on The Over the Counter Bulletin Board, now known as the OTC Markets. Our common stock trades in low volumes and at low prices. Some investors view low-priced stocks as unduly speculative and therefore not appropriate candidates for investment. Many institutional investors have internal policies prohibiting the purchase or maintenance of positions in low-priced stocks. This has the effect of limiting the pool of potential purchases of our common stock at present price levels. Shareholders may find greater percentage spreads between bid and asked prices, and more difficulty in completing transactions and higher transaction costs when buying or selling our common stock than they would if our stock were listed on a major stock exchange, such as The New York Stock Exchange or The NASDAQ National Market.. Our common stock has been subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission’s “penny stock” regulations, which may limit the liquidity of common stock held by our shareholders.. Effective January 1, 2017, due to OTCQX rule changes, our common stock began trading on the OTC Markets’ OTCQB market under the symbol “SCIA”. Prior to this date our common stock traded on the OTC Markets’ OTCQX Market Tier under the same symbol. Based on its trading price, our common stock is considered a “penny stock” for purposes of federal securities laws, and therefore has been subject to regulations, which affected the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities. Broker-dealers who recommend a “penny stock” to persons (other than established customers and accredited investors) must make a special written suitability determination and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale.. If penny stock regulations apply to our common stock, it may be difficult to trade the stock because compliance with the regulations can delay and/or preclude certain trading transactions. Broker-dealers may be discouraged from effecting transactions in common stock because of the sales practice and disclosure requirements for penny stock. This could adversely affect the liquidity and/or price of our common stock, and impede the sale of the common stock in the secondary market.. The increasing costs of being a public company may strain our resources and impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a public company, we are subject to reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes Oxley Act and the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The Dodd-Frank Act requires us to audit our supply chain and report conflict minerals usage.. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources in the future and may require us to hire additional accounting and financial staff with the appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. In addition, the failure to maintain such internal controls could result in us being unable to provide timely and reliable financial information which could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission or events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we have taken steps to maintain our internal control structure as required by the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we cannot provide any assurances that control deficiencies will not occur in the future.. Regulation from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) could adversely affect our business or financial results.. Changes in regulatory requirements, such as the reporting requirements relating to conflict minerals originating in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries included in the Dodd-Frank Act, or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance cost, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. We conducted an analysis of our products and found that the above SEC defined “conflict minerals”, which are tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG), can be found in our products. Therefore, the products that we manufacture are subject to the reporting obligations of Rule 13p-1.. Despite having conducted a good faith reasonable country of origin inquiry, we concluded that our supply chain remains “DRC conflict undeterminable”. We have reached this conclusion because we have been unable to determine the origin of all of the 3TG used. We will continue to work with our suppliers. Should the regulations or our analysis change, it could impact the sourcing of materials that we use to manufacture our products.. 11. Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber and other security threats or disruptions.. We face various cyber and other security threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information and networks; insider threats; threats to the safety of our directors, officers and employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure; and threats from terrorist acts or other acts of aggression. Our customers and vendors face similar threats. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient. Our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities, or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users, or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our user’s or customer’s data. These threats could lead to losses of sensitive information or capabilities, harm to personnel, infrastructure or products, and/or damage to our reputation as well as our vendor’s ability to perform on our contracts.. Cyber threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, destructive malware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential, personal or otherwise protected information (ours or that of our employees, customers or vendors), and corruption of data, networks or systems.. The impact of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could result in the loss of information or capabilities, harm to individuals or property, damage to our reputation, loss of business, regulatory actions and potential liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize us to issue additional shares of stock.. We are authorized to issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock, which may be issued by our Board of Directors for such consideration, as they may consider sufficient without seeking shareholder approval. As of December 31, 2017, we had 4,185,839 shares outstanding and 303,829 shares underlying options that are currently exercisable resulting in 10,510,332 shares of common stock available for issue. The issuance of additional shares of common stock in the future may reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of current shareholders.. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize us to issue up to 260,000 shares of preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock in the future could create additional securities which would have dividend and liquidation preferences prior to the outstanding shares of common stock. These provisions could also impede a non-negotiated change in control. As of December 31, 2017, we had 24,152 shares of Series B Preferred Stock issued and outstanding.. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to do so in the future.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our shares of common stock and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings for use in the business. As a result, investors must rely on sales of the common stock after price appreciation, which may not occur, as the only way to realize future gains on their investments."
