[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our net revenues, operating results and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business.. Our business is highly seasonal, with a high proportion of our net revenues, net income and operating cash flows generated during the fourth quarter. For example, we generated approximately 50% of our net revenues in the fourth quarter during each of the last three years. In addition, we incur significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the fourth quarter holiday season, including expenses related to the hiring and training of temporary workers to meet our seasonal needs, additional inventory and equipment purchases, and increased advertising. We face intense competition for seasonal and temporary workers. If we are unable to accurately forecast expense levels, our results of operations would likely be negatively impacted. Additionally, if we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to consumer demand for our products during the fourth quarter, our financial results, reputation and brands will suffer and the market price of our common stock would likely decline.. We also base our operating expense budgets on expected net revenues trends. A portion of our expenses, such as office, production facility, and various equipment leases and personnel costs, are largely fixed and are based on our expectations of our peak levels of operations. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in net revenues may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter, particularly in the fourth quarter.. If we are unable to meet our production requirements, our net revenues and results of operations would be harmed.. We believe that we must continue to upgrade and expand our current production capability to meet our projected net revenues targets. Our capital expenditures were approximately 6%, 8% and 8% of total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Operational difficulties, such as a significant interruption in the operations of our Fort Mill, South Carolina; Tempe, Arizona; or Shakopee, Minnesota production facilities or in facilities operated by third-parties, could delay production or shipment of our products. In addition, inclement weather, particularly heavy rain and snow could impair our production capabilities. Our inability to meet our production requirements, particularly in our peak season, could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation and brands, which would result in reduced net revenues. Moreover, if the costs of meeting production requirements, including capital expenditures, were to exceed our expectations, our results of operations would be harmed.. In addition, at peak holiday seasons, and in particular during the fourth quarter, we face significant production risks, including the risk of obtaining sufficient qualified seasonal production personnel. A majority of our workforce during the fourth quarter of 2017 was seasonal, temporary personnel. We have had difficulties in the past finding and retaining a sufficient number of qualified seasonal employees, and our failure to find and retain qualified seasonal production personnel at any of our production facilities could harm our operations.. Our business and stock price may be adversely affected if our planned acquisition of Lifetouch is not completed.. On January 30, 2018, we entered into an agreement to acquire Lifetouch; the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions (including regulatory approval) and is expected to close in the second quarter of 2018. We will finance the purchase price of the acquisition with an incremental $825.0 million term loan issuance. We entered into a commitment letter with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. (\"Morgan Stanley\"), pursuant to which Morgan Stanley has committed to provide a secured incremental term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $825.0 million. Issuance of this term loan is subject to various conditions, including the execution of the definitive documentation and other customary closing conditions.. If we are unable finance the purchase price or the acquisition is otherwise not completed, our business might be adversely affected and the market price of our shares of common stock may decline to the extent the current market price of those shares reflects an assumption that the acquisition will be completed.. The pending acquisition of Lifetouch may present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time we entered into the purchase agreement.. Risks we may face in connection with the pending acquisition of Lifetouch include:. • We may not realize the benefits we expect to receive from the transaction, such as anticipated synergies and enhanced financial position;. 13. Table of Contents. • We may have difficulties (1) managing the acquired company's technologies and lines of business; (2) entering into a new business where we have no or limited direct prior experience; or (3) retaining key personnel from Lifetouch;. • The acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not successfully integrate Lifetouch as planned, there could be unanticipated adverse impacts on Lifetouch's business, or we may not otherwise not realize the expected return on our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we record as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill;. • Our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by (1) claims or liabilities that we assume from Lifetouch including, among others, claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers or business partners, former employee stock ownership plan (ESOP Plan) or other third parties; (2) pre-existing contractual relationships of Lifetouch that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; (3) unfavorable accounting treatment as a result of Lifetouch's practices; and (4) intellectual property claims or disputes;. • Lifetouch is a privately-held company and has not been required to maintain an internal control infrastructure that would meet the standards of a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The costs that we may incur to implement such controls and procedures may be substantial and we could encounter unexpected delays and challenges in this implementation.  In addition, we may discover significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the quality of Lifetouch's financial and disclosure controls and procedures;. • We may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring Lifetouch, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition;. • We may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from the Lifetouch; and. • We may have difficulty incorporating Lifetouch's related supply chain operations with our existing supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies.. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Uncertainties in general economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending patterns, particularly in the personalized products and photofinishing services categories, could adversely impact our operating results.. Our financial performance depends on general economic conditions in the United States and their impact on levels of consumer spending, particularly spending on personalized products and photofinishing services. Consumer net revenue as a percentage of total net revenues was 84% in 2017, 88% in 2016 and 91% in 2015. Some of the macroeconomic conditions that can adversely affect consumer spending levels in the United States include domestic and foreign stock market volatility and its effects on net worth, anticipated economic slowdowns in foreign economies, high consumer debt levels, uncertainty in real estate markets and home values, fluctuating energy and commodity costs, rising or higher than average interest rates, higher than usual unemployment rates, limited credit availability, changes in tax laws, and general uncertainty about the future economic environment. If general economic conditions decline, customers or potential customers could delay, reduce or forego their purchases of our products and services, which are discretionary. Any decrease in the demand for our products and services could impact our business in a number of ways, including lower prices for our products and services and reduced sales. In addition, adverse economic conditions may lead to price increases by our suppliers or increase our operating expenses due to, among other factors, higher costs of labor, energy, equipment and facilities which could in turn lead to additional restructuring actions by us and associated expenses. We may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers due to the macroeconomic environment and the resulting increased expenses and/or reduced income could have a material adverse impact our operating results.. Competitive pricing pressures, particularly with respect to pricing and shipping, may harm our business and results of operations.. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price, especially in times of slow or uncertain economic growth and consumer conservatism. Many factors can significantly impact our pricing strategies, including production and personnel costs, and ones outside of our control, such as consumer sentiment and our competitors' pricing and marketing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers' price expectations, we could lose customers, which would harm our business and results of operations.. Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our net revenues and net income. From time to time, we have made changes to our pricing structure in order to remain competitive. Many of our products, including professionally-bound photo books, calendars, cards and stationery and other photo merchandise are also offered by our competitors. Many of our competitors discount those products at significant levels and as a result, we may be compelled to change our discounting strategy, which could impact our acquisition of new customers, average order value, net revenues, gross margin, and adjusted. 14. Table of Contents. EBITDA and net income profitability measures. If in the future, due to competitor discounting or other marketing strategies, we significantly reduce our prices on our products without a corresponding increase in volume, it would negatively impact our net revenues and could adversely affect our gross margins and overall profitability.. We generate a significant portion of our net revenues from the fees we collect from shipping and handling of our products. For example, shipping and handling revenue for the Shutterfly brand website represented approximately 23% of our net revenues in 2017, 19% of our net revenues in 2016 and 20% in 2015. We offer discounted or free shipping, with a minimum purchase requirement, during promotional periods to acquire and retain customers. If free shipping offers extend beyond a limited number of occasions, are not based upon a minimum purchase requirement or become commonplace, our net revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, we occasionally offer free or discounted products and services to acquire and retain customers. In the future, if we increase these offers to respond to actions taken by our competitors, our results of operations may be harmed.. We face intense competition from a range of competitors and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors.. The digital photography products and services industry is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future as current competitors improve their offerings, including developing, acquiring and expanding mobile and cloud-based offerings, and as new participants enter the market or as industry consolidation further develops. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We face intense competition from a wide range of companies, including the following:. <U+25CF> Online digital photography services companies such as Snapfish, Vistaprint, and many others;. <U+25CF> Social media companies that host and enable mobile access to and posting of images such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, Pinterest, Snapchat and Google+;. <U+25CF> Photo hosting websites that allow users to upload and share images at no cost such as Apple iCloud, Google Photos, and Flickr;. <U+25CF> \"Big Box\" retailers such as Wal-Mart, Costco, Sam's Club, Target, and others that offer low cost digital photography products and services. In addition to providing low-cost competitive product offerings on their respective websites, these competitors provide in-store fulfillment and self-service kiosks for printing, and may, among other strategies, offer their customers heavily discounted in-store products and services that compete directly with our offerings;. <U+25CF> Drug stores such as Walgreens, CVS/pharmacy, and others that offer low-cost photography products and services as well as in-store pick-up from their photo website Internet orders;. <U+25CF> Traditional offline stationery companies such as PaperSource, Crane & Co., and Papyrus;. <U+25CF> Cloud-based storage services and file-syncing services such as Dropbox, Box, Everalbum, Amazon Photos and iCloud;. <U+25CF> Specialized companies in the photo book and stationery business such as Hallmark, Cardstore by American Greetings, Minted, Invitations by Dawn, Picaboo, Blurb, Mixbook, Postable, Artifact Uprising and Chatbooks;. <U+25CF> Photo-related software companies such as Apple, Microsoft, and Adobe;. <U+25CF> Online and offline companies specializing in photo-based merchandise and personalized home décor such as Zazzle, CafePress, Art.Com, Canvas On Demand, Personalization Mall, Personal Creations, Things Remembered, Mark & Graham, CustomInk, Teespring and Etsy.. <U+25CF> Providers of digital alternatives to our products, such as Paperless Post, Evite, Animoto, and PicCollage.. <U+25CF> Home printing service providers such as Hewlett-Packard and Epson that are seeking to expand their printer and ink businesses by gaining market share in the digital photography marketplace;. <U+25CF> Enterprise digital and print communications companies such as RR Donnelley and Sons Company, O'Neil Data Systems, Inc., Quad/Graphics, Inc. and Viatech Publishing Solutions, Inc.;. 15. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> Regional photography companies such as Ritz Camera that have established brands and customer bases in existing photography markets; and. <U+25CF> Camera and photographic supply companies that rent equipment nationwide both online and in brick-and-mortar stores such as LensRentals.com, Cameralends, AbelCine, and Adorama.. Many of our competitors have significantly longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, greater brand and name recognition, greater financial, research and development and distribution resources, and operate in more geographic areas than we do. Well-funded competitors may be better able to withstand economic downturns and periods of slow economic growth and the associated periods of reduced customer spending and increased pricing pressures. The numerous choices for digital photography services can cause confusion for consumers, and may cause them to select a competitor with greater name recognition. Some competitors are able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development or to investments or partnerships with traditional and online competitors. Well-funded competitors, particularly new entrants, may choose to prioritize growing their market share and brand awareness instead of profitability. Competitors and new entrants in the digital photography products and services industry may develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render obsolete or less competitive many of our products, services and content. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could harm our business and prospects.. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our stock price.. Our future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are difficult for us to predict and control. Factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include:. • demand for our products and services, including seasonal demand;. • our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors;. • our ability to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors into customers;. • the potential impact of the current U.S. political climate on consumer spending;. • our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases;. • the costs of customer acquisition;. • our ability to manage our production and fulfillment operations;. • the costs to produce our prints and photo-based products and merchandise and to provide our services;. • the costs of expanding or enhancing our technology or websites;. • a significant increase in returns and credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products;. • our ability to achieve the expected benefits of strategic partnerships or the loss of any such partnership;. • declines or disruptions to the travel industry;. • variations in weather, particularly heavy rain and snow which tend to depress travel and picture taking;. • the timing of holidays and the duration of the holiday shopping season;. • general economic conditions, including recession and slow economic growth in the United States and worldwide and higher inflation;. • our ability to address increased shipping delays caused by our third-party shippers' inability to handle the ever-increasing number of consumers ordering goods online, particularly during the holiday shopping season;. • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock-based compensation expense;. • consumer preferences for digital photography services;. • improvements to the quality, cost and convenience of desktop printing of digital pictures and products; and. • global and geopolitical events with indirect economic effects such as pandemic disease, hurricane and other natural disasters, war, threat of war or terrorist actions.. Based on the factors cited above, and in light of the seasonal nature of our business, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock may decline.. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may not be able to sustain profitability in the future.. We have periodically experienced operating losses since our inception in 1999. In particular, we make investments in our business that generally result in operating losses in each of the first three quarters of our fiscal year. This typically has enabled us to generate the majority of our net revenues during the fourth quarter and to achieve profitability for the full fiscal year. If we are. 16. Table of Contents. unable to produce our products and provide our services at commercially reasonable costs, if consumer demand decreases and net revenues decline or if our expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. We face many risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties relating to increasing our market share and growing our business.. To address the risks and uncertainties of increasing our market share and growing our business, we must do the following:. •maintain and increase the size of our customer base;. •maintain and enhance our brands;. •enhance and expand our products and services;. •continue to develop and upgrade our technology and information processing systems;. •maintain and grow our websites, applications and customer operations;. •successfully execute our business and marketing strategy;. •continue to enhance our service to meet the needs of a changing industry;. •provide a high-quality customer experience, including superior customer service and timely product deliveries;. •respond to competitive developments; and. •attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these requirements, which could cause our business to suffer. Accomplishing one or more of these requirements might be very expensive, which could harm our financial results.. Our sales to SBS customers can be unpredictable, can require significant ramp-up periods in the early stages of SBS contracts, and a decrease in SBS revenue or an increase in costs of SBS net revenues could adversely impact total net revenue.. SBS revenue as a percentage of total net revenues was 16% in 2017, 12% in 2016 and 9% in 2015. SBS gross margins were 20% in 2017, 26% in 2016 and 19% in 2015. The declining gross margins of this segment, coupled with the increasing percentage of total revenue from SBS, may magnify the impact of variations in revenue and operating costs on our operating results. This may have an adverse effect on our overall margins and profitability. Our SBS revenue is highly concentrated in a small number of customers and the loss of, or reduction in volume from, one or more of our SBS customers could decrease SBS revenue and adversely impact our total net revenues. Our SBS customers also come from a variety of industries, often creating regulatory compliance issues for us as well as the need to maintain security for third-party data. These SBS customers also demand strict security requirements and specified service levels. If we fail to meet these service levels, we may not only lose an SBS customer, but may have to pay punitive costs for such failures. As our SBS business grows, issues that impact our sales to SBS customers may have a negative impact on our total sales. Our core business is consumer focused and we have less experience managing sales to SBS customers and may not sell as successfully to SBS customers, who often have long sales cycles, long implementation periods and significant upfront costs.  In addition, we have had in 2017, and may continue to have in the future, low or no gross margins in the early stages of our contracts with SBS customers that often require significant ramp-up periods, which will adversely affect our total net revenues. To compete effectively in the SBS industry, we have in the past, and may in the future, be forced to offer significant discounts to large SBS customers at lower margins or reduce or withdraw from existing relationships with smaller SBS customers, which could negatively impact our net revenues and could adversely affect our gross margins and overall profitability.. If we are unable to adequately control the costs associated with operating our business, our results of operations will suffer.. The primary costs in operating our business are related to producing and shipping products, acquiring customers, compensating our personnel, acquiring equipment and technology, and leasing facilities. Controlling our business costs is challenging because many of the factors that impact these costs are beyond our control. For example, the costs to produce prints, such as the costs of photographic print paper, could increase due to a shortage of silver or an increase in worldwide energy, oil or fuel prices. In addition, we may become subject to increased costs by the third-party shippers that deliver our products to our customers, and we may be unable to pass along any increases in shipping costs to our customers. The costs of online advertising and keyword search could also increase significantly due to increased competition, which would increase our customer acquisition costs. If we are unable to keep the costs associated with operating our business aligned with the level of net revenues that we generate, our results of operations would be adversely affected.. If we are not able to reliably meet our technology, data storage and management requirements, it may harm customer satisfaction, net revenues, costs and brand reputation.. 17. Table of Contents. As a part of our current business model, we offer our customers free unlimited online storage and sharing of images and, as a result, must store and manage many petabytes of data. This policy results in immense system requirements and substantial ongoing technological challenges, both of which are expected to continue to increase over time. We continuously evaluate our short and long-term data storage capacity requirements to enable adequate capacity and management for new and existing customers. We strive to predict the capacity requirements as tightly as possible as overestimating may negatively impact our capital needs and underestimating may impact the level and quality of service we provide to our customers, which could harm customer satisfaction, net revenues, costs and brand reputation.. An increasing number of our customers are using smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices to order products and access services. If we are unable to develop mobile applications that are adopted by our customers or if we are unable to generate net revenues from our mobile applications, our results of operations and business could be adversely affected.. The number of people who access information about our services and our website through mobile devices, including smartphones and handheld tablets or computers, has increased significantly in recent years and is expected to continue increasing. As part of our multichannel strategy, we are making technology investments in our mobile websites and our iOS and Android applications. If customers do not adopt our applications and mobile website as expected, or if we are generally unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing mobile technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and may result in the loss of market share, which could harm our results of operations. In addition, if our technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of confidence, data security breaches or lost sales, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. As new mobile devices and platforms are released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing products and applications for these alternative devices and platforms, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such products and applications. If we experience difficulties providing satisfactory access to our services via our mobile applications and mobile websites, such as, problems with our relationships with providers of mobile operating systems (e.g., Apple or Google and their application stores) our growth and customer acquisition and retention capabilities may be impaired. In addition, increased distribution costs of the applications may impact net revenues growth and negative reviews due to our software and user experience may damage our brand reputation and lead to customer churn.. Computer system capacity constraints and system failures could significantly degrade the quality of our services, such as access to our websites or mobile applications, and in-turn cause customer loss, damage to our reputation and negatively affect our net revenues.. Our business requires that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the periodic high volume of visits to our websites and mobile applications. As our operations grow in size and scope, we continually need to improve and upgrade our computer systems, data storage, and network infrastructure to enable reliable access to our websites and mobile applications, in order to offer customers enhanced and new products, services, capacity, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that our net revenues will increase to offset these additional expenses.. Portions of our infrastructure, especially our photos domain for Shutterfly Photos, have run on a public cloud service (Amazon Web Services, Inc. or \"AWS\") for several years. In the third quarter of 2017, Shutterfly added additional workloads to AWS thereby expanding the portions of our infrastructure run on a public cloud service, and we intend to continue to expand our use of AWS. Any disturbances in the AWS system may create unforeseen technical issues, which would negatively influence our business and reputation. Although we leverage the redundancy features available from our public cloud service provider, any outage to their infrastructure could adversely impact our site availability, potentially leading to poor customer experience and data loss. For instance, in December 2017, researchers identified significant CPU architecture vulnerabilities commonly known as \"Spectre\" and \"Meltdown\" that have required AWS software updates and patches to mitigate such vulnerabilities and such updates and patches required AWS servers to be offline and potentially slow their performance.. Our ability to provide high-quality products and service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications, data storage and network infrastructure systems. If our systems cannot be scaled in a timely manner to cope with increased website and mobile applications traffic, we could experience disruptions in service, slower response times, lower customer satisfaction, and delays in the introduction of new products and services. Any of these problems could harm our reputation and cause our net revenues to decline.. Full or partial outages to our websites, mobile applications, computer systems, print production processes or customer service operations could damage our brand reputation and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites and mobile applications, information technology systems, printing production processes and customer service operations are critical to our service delivery, customer acquisition and retention and brand reputation growth. Any service interruptions that degrade the satisfactory use of our websites and mobile applications due to undetected bugs, design faults or poor scalability, may impact customer growth and retention, net revenues and costs. These include (but are not limited to) our product creation experience, order fulfillment performance, customer service operations and security of our systems.. This risk is heightened in the fourth quarter, as we experience significantly increased traffic to our websites during the holiday season and significantly higher order volumes. Any interruption that occurs during such time would have a disproportionately negative impact on our results of operations than if it occurred during a different quarter. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2014, unusually high seasonal traffic combined with system misconfigurations arising from our data center migration resulted in some days when customers could not place orders from our Tiny Prints brand. Even after the issue was identified and corrected, many of those orders were not received by customers within the expected time frame. As a result, we refunded many of those orders which reduced net revenues, recognized excess costs related to expedited shipping upgrades, and increased customer service costs which negatively impacted our gross margins and our brand.. We depend in part on third parties to implement and maintain certain aspects of our Internet and communications infrastructure and printing systems. Therefore, many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions in the production process may be outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Our business interruption insurance policies do not address all potential causes of business interruptions that we may experience, and any proceeds we may receive from these policies in the event of a business interruption may not fully compensate us for the net revenues we may lose.. Any failure by us to protect the confidential information of our customers and networks against security breaches and the risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. A significant prerequisite to e-commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We may be subject to cyber-attacks, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other attacks in the future. These attacks may come from individual hackers, criminal groups, and state-sponsored organizations. In addition to these threats, the security, integrity, and availability of our and our customers' data could be compromised by employee negligence, error or malfeasance, and technology defects. Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations. For example, even though we do not store customer credit cards on our computer system and use third-party systems to clear transactions, in case of an outage to a third-party system, we will temporarily store and bill our customers' credit card accounts directly; orders are then shipped to a customer's address and customers log on using their e-mail address. We rely on encryption and authentication technologies licensed from third parties to affect the secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, hacking or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user's password could access the user's transaction data, personal information or stored images.. Our expanded use of cloud-based services (such as AWS) could also increase the risk of security breaches as cyber-attacks on cloud environments are increasing to almost the same level as attacks on traditional information technology systems. For example, in 2014, we experienced a cyber-attack on our Tiny Prints, Treat and Wedding Paper Divas websites, which may have exposed the email addresses and encrypted passwords used by our customers to login to their accounts. We encrypt customer credit and debit card information, and we have no evidence that such information was compromised; however, any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brands and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to devote significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches.. In addition, contractors we hire as well as other employees have access to confidential information, including credit card data. Although we take steps to limit this access, this data could be compromised by these contractors or other employee personnel. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder's signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. Our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions and use of confidential information would damage our reputation and brands, and substantially harm our business and result of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. If the third-party vendors who we depend upon to produce many of our products or those that deliver our product experience delays or interruptions in service, our customer experience will suffer, which would substantially harm our business, reputation and results of operations.. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience depends, in large part, on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers, third-party product providers and shipping partners. For example, some of our products, such as select photo-based merchandise, are produced and shipped to customers by our third-party vendors, and we rely on these vendors to properly inspect and ship these products. In addition, we rely on third-party shippers, including the U.S. Postal Service and UPS to deliver our products to customers. Strikes, furloughs, reduced operations, increased shipping delays particularly during the holiday shopping season, or other service interruptions affecting these shippers could impair our ability to deliver merchandise on a timely basis. Our failure to provide customers with high-quality products in a timely manner for any reason could substantially harm our reputation and our efforts to develop trusted brands, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations.. If the facility where our computer and communications hardware is located fails or if any of our production facilities fail, our business and results of operations would be harmed and our reputation could be damaged.. Our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and to provide high-quality customer service depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. The computer hardware necessary to operate our website is in Las Vegas, Nevada. We also have computer hardware located in our production facilities in Fort Mill, South Carolina; Shakopee, Minnesota; and Tempe, Arizona. In addition, we also use third-party public clouds for our system operation. Our systems and operations could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, insufficient power availability, telecommunications failure, break-ins, hacking, distributed denial of service attacks, misuse by spammers, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. In addition, our headquarters are located near a major fault line increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm our operations. We maintain business interruption insurance; however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, particularly from interruption due to an earthquake which is not covered under our current policy. We do not presently have redundant systems in multiple locations. In addition, the impact of any of these disasters on our business may be exacerbated by the fact that we are still in the process of developing our formal disaster recovery plan and we do not have a final plan in place.. In order to be successful, we must attract, engage, retain and integrate key employees and have adequate succession plans in place, and failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to identify, hire, integrate, retain and motivate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. Identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining highly-skilled senior management, technical, marketing and production personnel are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. And, the current uncertainty around U.S. immigration rules could impact our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We face significant competition for qualified personnel in all locations where we operate, including in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who can meet our growing operational and managerial requirements, or we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Further, a lack of management continuity could result in operational, technological, and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and stock price and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult.. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees and senior executives could hinder our strategic planning and execution.. In order to attract new personnel, we may need to grant inducement equity awards outside of our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan, which dilutes the ownership of our existing stockholders.. Since 2007, our board of directors has approved inducement equity awards outside of our 2006 Plan and 2015 Plan to select new employees upon hire and in connection with mergers and acquisitions without stockholder approval in accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5635(c) for an aggregate of 3,338,561 shares of our common stock. The use of inducement equity awards may dilute the equity interest of our stockholders, which could in turn adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. In addition, we may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, or for other reasons, which would dilute our existing stockholders' ownership, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of such acquisitions or other activities and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. To finance any future acquisitions, it may also be necessary for us to raise additional funds. 20. Table of Contents. through public or private debt and equity financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our stockholders. Also, the value of our stock may be insufficient to attract acquisition candidates.. If we are unable to acquire customers in a cost-effective manner, traffic to our websites would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed.. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to bring visitors to our websites and mobile applications and promote our products, including paying fees to third parties who drive new customers to our websites and mobile applications, purchasing search results from online search engines, e-mail and direct mail marketing campaigns. We pay providers of online services, search engines, social media, advertising networks, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising/media and other links that direct customers to our websites. We also use e-mail and direct mail to attract customers, and we offer substantial pricing discounts or free products to encourage repeat purchases and trial orders. Our methods of attracting customers, including acquiring customer lists from third parties can involve substantial costs, regardless of whether we acquire new customers as a result of such purchases. Even if we are successful in acquiring and retaining customers, the cost involved in these efforts, and which has increased in recent years, impacts our results of operations. Customer lists are typically recorded as intangible assets and may be subject to impairment charges if the fair value of that list exceeds its carrying value. These potential impairment charges could harm our results from operations. If we are unable to enhance or maintain the methods we use to reach consumers, if the costs of acquiring customers using these methods significantly increase, or if we are unable to develop new cost-effective methods to obtain customers, our ability to attract new customers would be harmed, traffic to our websites and mobile applications may be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed.. If we were to become subject to e-mail blacklisting, traffic to our websites would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed.. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain e-mail solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as unsolicited bulk e-mails, or \"spam.\" Some of these entities maintain blacklists of companies and individuals, and the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to what the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations. If a company's Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity's service or purchases its blacklist. From time to time we are blacklisted, sometimes without our knowledge, which could impair our ability to sell our products and services, communicate with our customers and otherwise operate our business. In addition, we have noted that unauthorized \"spammers\" utilize our domain name to solicit spam, which increases the frequency and likelihood that we may be blacklisted.. Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation.. We rely on Internet search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing, including through the purchase of keywords related to photo-based products, to generate traffic to our websites. We obtain a significant amount of traffic via search engines and, therefore, utilize techniques such as search engine optimization (\"SEO\") and search engine marketing (\"SEM\") to improve our placement in relevant search queries. Search engines, including Google, Yahoo! and Bing, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. Moreover, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in search query results. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or unpaid search ranking, or if competitive dynamics impact the effectiveness of SEO or SEM in a negative manner, including but not limited to increased costs for desired search queries, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent.. We may not succeed in promoting and strengthening our brands, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing net revenues.. A component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of the Shutterfly, Tiny Prints, Groovebook and BorrowLenses brands. Due to the competitive nature of the digital photography products and services industry, if we are unable to successfully promote our brands, we may fail to acquire new customers, increase the engagement of existing customers with our brands or substantially increase our net revenues. Customer awareness and the perceived value of our brands will depend. 21. Table of Contents. largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. To promote our brands, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to acquire new customers and maintain customer relationships, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations.. If we are unable to develop, market and sell new products and services that address additional market opportunities, our results of operations may suffer. In addition, we may need to expand beyond our current customer demographic to grow our business.. Although earlier in our history we have focused our business on consumer industry for silver halide prints, we have consistently evolved and broadened our offering to include other photo-based products, such as professionally-bound photo books, cards and stationery, calendars and other photo merchandise. We continually evaluate the demand for new products and services and the need to address trends in consumer demand and opportunities in the marketplace. For example, we have expanded in recent years into statement gifts and home décor, including wall art, ornaments and pillows, and video equipment rentals through the BorrowLenses brand. In the future, we may need to address additional segments and expand our customer demographic to grow our business. Our efforts to expand our existing services, create new products and services, address new segments or develop a significantly broader customer base may not be successful. Any failure to address additional opportunities could result in loss of market share, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently outsource some of our off-line and online marketing, and some of our customer service activities to third parties, which exposes us to risks if these parties fail to perform under our agreements with them.. We currently outsource some of our off-line and online marketing, and some of our customer service activities to third parties. If these parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreements and if we are unable to secure another outsource partner in a timely manner, we would likely fail to meet customer expectations, which could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brands and harm our business and results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2015, a third-party customer service provider experienced a disruption that affected our operations during peak times.. We currently depend on third-party suppliers for our photographic print paper, printing machines and other supplies, which expose us to risks if these suppliers fail to perform under our agreements with them.. We purchase photo-based and other product supplies from third parties. These parties could increase their prices, reallocate supply to others, including our competitors, or choose to terminate their relationship with us. If one of these third parties chooses not to renew their agreements or fails to perform in accordance with the terms of their agreements and we are not able to secure supplies and services from a different source in a timely manner, we could fail to meet customer expectations, which could damage our reputation and harm our business. This competition may influence their willingness to provide us with additional products or services. If we were required to switch vendors of machines for photo-based or other products, we may incur delays and incremental costs, which could harm our operating results.. Failure to comply with privacy laws and regulations and failure to adequately protect customer data could harm our business, damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers.. Federal, state and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that we receive from our customers. In addition, we have and post on our websites our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of customer data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, U.S. Federal Trade Commission requirements or other federal, state or international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially harm our business. Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with our policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers.. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our website features and functionalities or to obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our websites, our production operations and our trademarks.. As of December 31, 2017, Shutterfly had 113 patents issued, and had more than 20 patent applications pending in the United States. We intend to pursue corresponding patent coverage in other countries to the extent we believe such coverage is appropriate. 22. Table of Contents. and cost efficient. We cannot ensure that any of our pending applications will be granted. In addition, third parties have in the past and could in the future bring infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship or similar claims with respect to any of our currently issued patents or any patents that may be issued to us in the future. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly to defend, divert management's time and attention, damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. Our primary brands are \"Shutterfly,\" \"Tiny Prints,\" \"Wedding Paper Divas,\" and \"BorrowLenses.\" We hold applications and/or registrations for the Shutterfly, Tiny Prints, Wedding Paper Divas, BorrowLenses and Groovebook trademarks in our major territories of the United States and Canada as well as in the European Community. Our marks are critical components of our marketing programs. If we lose the ability to use these marks in any particular sector, we could be forced to either incur significant additional marketing expenses within that sector, or elect not to sell products in that sector.. From time to time, third parties have adopted names similar to ours, applied to register trademarks similar to ours, and we believe have infringed or misappropriated our intellectual property rights and impeded our ability to build brand identity, possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, we have been and may continue to be subject to potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of marks that are similar to Shutterfly, Tiny Prints, Wedding Paper Divas, BorrowLenses, or one of our other marks.. We respond on a case-by-case basis and where appropriate may send cease and desist letters or commence opposition actions and litigation. However, we cannot ensure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights are adequate, that our intellectual property rights can be successfully defended and asserted in the future or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate any such rights. In addition, our trademark rights and related registrations may be challenged in the future and could be canceled or narrowed. Failure to protect our trademark rights could prevent us in the future from challenging third parties who use names and logos similar to our trademarks, which may in turn cause consumer confusion or negatively affect consumers' perception of our brands, products, and services. Any claims or consumer confusion related to our marks could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.. If we become involved in intellectual property litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs, expenses or liability, lose our exclusive rights or be required to stop certain of our business activities.. From time to time, we have received, and likely will continue to receive, communications from third parties inviting us to license their patents or accusing us of infringement. There can be no assurance that a third party will not take further action, such as filing a patent infringement lawsuit, including a request for injunctive relief to bar the manufacture and sale of our products and services in the United States or elsewhere. We may also choose to defend ourselves by initiating litigation or administrative proceedings to clarify or seek a declaration of our rights. Additionally, from time to time, we have to defend against infringement of our intellectual property by bringing suit against other parties. As competition in our industry grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us or litigation we will initiate increases.. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, whether or not initiated by us and even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management's efforts from growing our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations.. Alternatively, we may be required to, or decide to, enter into a license with a third party. Any future license required under any other party's patents may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain of our business activities, which could limit our ability to generate revenues and harm our results of operations and possibly prevent us from generating revenues sufficient to sustain our operations.. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, rights of publicity and rights of privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and. 23. Table of Contents. quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property use and ownership, sales and other taxes, fraud, libel and personal privacy and the rights of publicity apply to the Internet and e-commerce as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet continue to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. For example, and without limitation:. • The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (\"DMCA\") is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for including (or for listing or linking to third-party websites that include) materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act (\"CDA\") are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and CDA in conducting our business. Any changes in these laws or judicial interpretations narrowing their protections will subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to operate certain lines of business.. • The Children's Online Protection Act and the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act are intended to restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances.. • The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act (\"CARD Act\") is intended to protect consumers from unfair credit card billing practices and adds new regulations on the use of gift cards, limiting our ability to expire them. Several states are attempting to pass new laws regulating the use of gift cards and amending state escheatment laws to try to pass new laws regulating the use of gift cards and amending state escheatment laws to try and obtain unused gift card balances.. • The Restore Online Shoppers' Confidence Act (\"ROSCA\") prohibits and prevents Internet-based post-transaction third-party sales and imposes specific requirements on negative option features.. • The Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act (\"IBIPA\") regulates the collection, use, safeguarding, and storage of \"biometric identifiers\" or \"biometric information\" by private entities. While the statute specifically excludes photographs from its scope, to date there has been no dispositive judicial interpretation of that language.. The costs of compliance with these and other regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Further, any failures on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations.. Legislation regarding copyright protection or content review could impose complex and costly constraints on our business model.. Although our websites' terms of use specifically require customers to represent that they have the right and authority to provide and submit to us and to reproduce the content they provide and submit and that the content is in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations and does not infringe on any third-party intellectual property or other proprietary rights or rights of publicity or rights of privacy, we do not have the ability to determine the accuracy of these representations on a case-by-case basis. There is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party or another party's right of privacy or right of publicity, or that would be considered to be defamatory, pornographic, hateful, racist, scandalous, obscene or otherwise offensive, objectionable or illegal under the laws or court decisions of the jurisdiction where that customer lives. There is, therefore, a risk that customers may intentionally or inadvertently order and receive products from us that are in violation of the rights of another party or a law or regulation of a particular jurisdiction. If we should become legally obligated in the future to perform manual screening and review for all orders destined for a jurisdiction, we will encounter increased production costs or may cease accepting orders for shipment to that jurisdiction which could substantially harm our business and results of operations.. Our practice of offering free products and services could be subject to judicial or regulatory challenge.. We regularly offer free products or free shipping as an inducement for customers to try our products. Although we believe that we conspicuously and clearly communicate all details and conditions of these offers, for example, that customers are required to pay shipping, handling and/or processing charges to take advantage of the free product offer, we have been and in the future. 24. Table of Contents. may be subject to claims from individuals or governmental regulators that our free offers are misleading or do not comply with applicable legislation. These claims may be expensive to defend and could divert management's time and attention. If we become subject to such claims in the future, or are required or elect to curtail or eliminate our use of free offers, our business and results of operations may be harmed.. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell.. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to issues such as personal injury, death, or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Any claims, litigation, or recalls relating to product liability could be costly to us and damage our brands and reputation.. The failure of our suppliers and manufacturing fulfillers to use legal and ethical business practices could negatively impact our business.. We source the raw materials for the products we sell from an expanding number of suppliers in an increasing number of jurisdictions worldwide, and we contract with third-party manufacturers to fulfill customer orders. Although we require our suppliers and fulfillers to operate in compliance with all applicable laws, including those regarding corruption, working conditions, employment practices, safety and health, and environmental compliance, we cannot control their business practices, and we may not be able to adequately vet, monitor, and audit our many suppliers and fulfillers (or their suppliers) throughout the world. If any of them violates labor, environmental, or other laws or implements business practices that are regarded as unethical, our reputation could be severely damaged, and our supply chain and order fulfillment process could be interrupted, which could harm our sales and results of operations.. We are subject to safety, health, and environmental laws and regulations, which could result in liabilities, cost increases or restrictions on our operations.. We are subject to a variety of safety, health and environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the storage, handling and disposal of hazardous and other regulated substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. We use regulated substances such as inks and solvents, and generate air emissions and other discharges at our manufacturing facilities, and some of our facilities are required to hold environmental permits. If we fail to comply with existing safety, health and environmental laws and regulations, or new, more stringent safety, health and environmental laws and regulations applicable to us are imposed, we may be subject to monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims, or the limitation or suspension of our operations. In addition, if we are found to be responsible for hazardous substances at any location (including, for example, offsite waste disposal facilities or facilities at which we formerly operated), we may be responsible for the cost of cleaning up contamination, regardless of fault, as well as to claims for harm to health or property or for natural resource damages arising out of contamination or exposure to hazardous substances.. The success of our business depends on our ability to adapt to the continued evolution of digital photography.. The digital photography industry is rapidly evolving, characterized by changing technologies, intense price competition, additional competitors, evolving industry standards, frequent new service and platform announcements and changing consumer demands and behaviors. To the extent that consumer adoption of digital photography does not continue to grow as expected, our revenue growth would likely suffer. Moreover, we face significant risks that, if the industry for digital photography evolves in ways that we are not able to address due to changing technologies or consumer behaviors, pricing pressures, or otherwise, our current products and services may become less attractive, which would result in the loss of customers, as well as lower net revenues and/or increased expenses.. Purchasers of digital photography products and services may not choose to shop or rent online, which would harm our net revenues and results of operations.. The online industry for digital photography products and services, including photographic and video equipment rentals, is less developed than the online industry for other consumer products. Our success will depend in part on our ability to acquire customers who historically have used traditional retail photography services or who have produced photographs and other products using self-service alternatives, such as printing at home. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or reduce the prices of our products and services in order to acquire additional online consumers to our websites and convert them into purchasing customers. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us include:. 25. Table of Contents. •the inability to physically handle and examine product samples;. •delivery time associated with Internet orders;. •costs associated with shipping and handling;. •concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information;. •delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and. •inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items.. If purchasers of digital photography products and services do not choose to shop or rent online, our net revenues and results of operations would be harmed.. If our internal controls are not effective or our third-party software systems that we use to assist us in the calculation and reporting of financial data have errors, there may be errors in our financial information that could require a restatement or delay our SEC filings, and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price.. It is possible that we may discover significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial information. We use numerous third-party licensed software packages, most notably our equity software and our SBS resource planning software, which are complex and fully integrated into our financial reporting. Such third-party software may contain errors that we may not identify in a timely manner. If those errors are not identified and addressed timely, our financial reporting may not be in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles. Any such delays, errors or restatements could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price.. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and divert management's attention.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of The Nasdaq Stock Market. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 contains various provisions applicable to the corporate governance functions of public companies. Additional or new regulatory requirements may be adopted in the future. The requirements of existing and potential future rules and regulations will likely continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal control over financial reporting. Significant resources and management oversight are required to design, document, test, implement and monitor internal control over relevant processes and to remediate any deficiencies. As a result, management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. These efforts also involve substantial accounting related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market.. Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuation from federal and state audits, changes in U.S. tax laws and stock-based compensation activity.. Tax audits by taxing agencies for the open tax years could lead to fluctuations in our effective tax rate because the taxing authority may disagree with certain assumptions we have made regarding appropriate credits and deductions in filing our tax returns.. Our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations under current tax regulations as a result of stock-based compensation activity. This activity includes items such as windfalls and shortfalls associated with the vesting of restricted stock units and restricted stock awards, disqualifying dispositions when employees exercise and sell their incentive stock options within a two year period, and cancellation of vested non-qualified stock options.. Additionally, in December 2017, the current U.S. administration signed an act referred to as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"TCJA\"), generally effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The TCJA is complex and includes significant amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), including amendments that significantly change the taxation of offshore earnings and the deductibility of interest.  We are currently assessing the impact of the TCJA on our business and consolidated financial statements.. 26. Table of Contents. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The TCJA was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued.. The TCJA requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the TCJA and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the TCJA in our financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. We may undertake acquisitions to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders.. A key component of our business strategy includes strengthening our competitive position and refining the customer experience on our websites and mobile applications through internal development. However, from time to time, we may selectively pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be time-consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits and synergies we expect due to a number of factors including the loss of management focus on and the diversion of resources from existing businesses; difficulty retaining key personnel of the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company into our organization; difficulty integrating acquired technologies into our existing systems; entry into a business or industry with which we have historically had little experience; difficulty and increased costs of integrating data systems; the need to implement or remediate the controls, procedures or policies of the acquired company; and increased risk of litigation. While we have actively sought to control increases in costs that may stem from such acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill in connection with such acquisitions could harm our operating results.. International expansion would require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful, which could harm our future business development and existing domestic operations.. To date, we have conducted limited international operations, but may in the future decide to expand into international industries in order to grow our business. These expansion plans will require significant management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We have limited experience adapting our products to conform to local cultures, standards and policies. We may have to compete with established local or regional companies which understand the local industry better than we do. In addition, to achieve satisfactory performance for consumers in international locations it may be necessary to locate physical facilities, such as production facilities, in the foreign industries. We do not have experience establishing, acquiring or operating such facilities overseas. We may not be successful in expanding into any international industries or in generating revenues from foreign operations. In addition, different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may result in additional expenses, diversion of resources, including the attention of our management team.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, the stock market as a whole recently has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to those companies' operating performance. In addition, our stock price increased significantly after we announced our intention to acquire Lifetouch. Factors that could cause our stock price to fluctuate include:. • delays in, or an inability to consummate our planned acquisition of Lifetouch;. • failure to realize the anticipated benefits from the planned Lifetouch acquisition after it has closed;. • slow economic growth, and market conditions or trends in our industry or the macro-economy as a whole;. 27. Table of Contents. • worldwide economic and market trends and conditions;. • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market;. • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;. • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections;. • the potential impact of the current U.S. political climate on consumer spending;. • the loss of key personnel;. • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock;. • ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our company;. • business disruptions and costs related to shareholder activism;. • the public's response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, acquisitions or capital commitments;. • introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products;. • lawsuits threatened or filed against us;. • future sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and. • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events.. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws and Delaware law may deter third parties from acquiring us.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following:. • our board is classified into three classes of directors, each with staggered three-year terms;. • only our chairman, our president and chief executive officer or a majority of our board of directors are authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders;. • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent;. • vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by our board of directors and not by stockholders;. • our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and. • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders.. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits \"business combinations\" between a Delaware corporation and an \"interested stockholder,\" which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.. Our stock repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock and increase volatility and may be suspended or terminated at any time, which may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock.. In April of 2017, our board of directors approved an increase to the share repurchase program of up to $140.0 million in addition to amounts remaining under the board's prior authorizations. Through December 31, 2017, we have repurchased $533.2 million in stock under our total authorized amount of $646.0 million. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, an assessment by management and our board of directors of cash availability and other market conditions. The stock repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. In January 2018, we publicly announced that we suspended our stock repurchase program for an undetermined period of time as we are committed to de-levering. Future repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect the price of our common stock and increase its volatility. The existence of our stock repurchase program could also cause the price of our common stock to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our common stock. Additionally, repurchases under. 28. Table of Contents. our stock repurchase program will diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to further develop our technology, access and/or retrofit additional facilities and service our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that any stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased such shares. Any failure to repurchase shares after we have announced our intention to do so may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and may negatively impact our stock price. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. In addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities if we want to pay cash dividends. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the further development and expansion of our business and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in current or future financing instruments and such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant.. Conversion of our 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes Due in May 2018 (the \"Notes\") may affect the price of our common stock.. The conversion of some or all of the Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders to the extent we deliver shares of common stock upon conversion.  Holders of the outstanding Notes will be able to convert them only upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, during the relevant observation period.  Upon conversion, holders of the Notes will receive cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. To the extent such sales are possible, any sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion of such Notes could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Risks Related to Our 0.25% Senior Convertible Senior Notes Due in May 2018 (the \"Notes\"). Although the Notes are referred to as convertible senior Notes, they are effectively subordinated to any of our secured debt and any liabilities of our subsidiaries.. The Notes will rank senior in right of payment to any of our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes; equal in right of payment to any of our liabilities that are not so subordinated; effectively junior in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, our assets that secure debt ranking senior in right of payment to the Notes will be available to pay obligations on the Notes only after the secured debt has been repaid in full from these assets, and the assets of our subsidiaries will be available to pay obligations on the Notes only after all claims senior to the Notes (including any amounts drawn under our credit facility) have been repaid in full. There may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the Notes then outstanding. The indenture governing the Notes does not prohibit us from incurring additional senior debt or secured debt, nor does it prohibit any of our subsidiaries from incurring additional liabilities.. Recent and future regulatory actions and other events may adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of the Notes.. We expect that many investors in, and potential purchasers of, the Notes will employ, or seek to employ, a convertible arbitrage strategy with respect to the Notes. Investors would typically implement such a strategy by selling short the common stock underlying the Notes and dynamically adjusting their short position while continuing to hold the Notes. Investors may also implement this type of strategy by entering into swaps on our common stock in lieu of or in addition to short selling the common stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") and other regulatory and self-regulatory authorities have implemented various rules and taken certain actions, and may in the future adopt additional rules and take other actions, that may impact those engaging in short selling activity involving equity securities (including our common stock). Such rules and actions include Rule 201 of SEC Regulation SHO, the adoption by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and the national securities exchanges of a \"Limit Up-Limit Down\" program, the imposition of market-wide circuit breakers that halt trading of securities for certain periods following specific market declines, and the implementation of certain regulatory reforms required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Any governmental or regulatory action that restricts the ability of investors in, or potential purchasers of, the Notes to effect short sales of our common stock or enter into swaps on our common stock could adversely affect the trading price and the liquidity of the Notes.. 29. Table of Contents. In addition, if investors and potential purchasers seeking to employ a convertible arbitrage strategy are unable to borrow or enter into swaps on our common stock, in each case on commercially reasonable terms, the trading price and liquidity of the Notes may be adversely affected.. Volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock could adversely impact the trading price of the Notes.. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this section, or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. A decrease in the market price of our common stock would likely adversely impact the trading price of the Notes. The price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. This trading activity could, in turn, affect the trading prices of the Notes.. We may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed above.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments, some of which may be secured debt. We will not be restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the Notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the Notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the Notes when due. Our existing credit facility restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, but if the facility matures or is repaid, we may not be subject to such restrictions under the terms of any subsequent indebtedness.. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our Notes in cash or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our current debt contains, and our future debt may contain, limitations on our ability to pay cash on conversion or repurchase the Notes.. Holders of the Notes have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefor or Notes being converted.. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes and settle conversions in cash is limited by our credit facility and may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under the credit facility agreements governing our future indebtedness. Moreover, the occurrence of a fundamental change under the indenture would constitute an event of default under our credit facility. If the payment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes.. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation in cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. 30. Table of Contents. In May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which we refer to as FASB, issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, which we refer to as ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that any shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of the Notes.. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, the vesting of restricted stock units and other equity awards pursuant to our employee benefit plans, upon conversion of the Notes, and in relation to the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the pricing of the Notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the Notes and the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. Holders of Notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but they will be subject to all changes made with respect to them to the extent our conversion obligation includes shares of our common stock.. Holders of Notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common stock) prior to the conversion date relating to such Notes (if we elect to settle the relevant conversion by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share)) or the last trading day of the relevant observation period (if we elect to pay and deliver, as the case may be, a combination of cash and shares of our common stock in respect of the relevant conversion), but holders of Notes will be subject to all changes affecting our common stock. For example, if an amendment is proposed to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the conversion date related to a holder's conversion of its Notes (if we have elected to settle the relevant conversion by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share)) or the last trading day of the relevant observation period (if we elect to pay and deliver, as the case may be, a combination of cash and shares of our common stock in respect of the relevant conversion), such holder will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although such holder will nevertheless be subject to any changes affecting our common stock.. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes could result in holders receiving less than the value of our common stock into which the Notes would otherwise be convertible.. Holders of Notes may convert their Notes only if specified conditions are met. If the specific conditions for conversion are not met, holders will not be able to convert their Notes, and may not be able to receive the value of the cash, common stock or a combination of cash and common stock, as applicable, into which the Notes would otherwise be convertible.. Upon conversion of the Notes, holders may receive less valuable consideration than expected because the value of our common stock may decline after holders exercise their conversion rights but before we settle our conversion obligation.. 31. Table of Contents. Under the Notes, a converting holder will be exposed to fluctuations in the value of our common stock during the period from the date such holder surrenders Notes for conversion until the date we settle our conversion obligation. Upon conversion of the Notes, we have the option to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. If we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation in cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, the amount of consideration that holders will receive upon conversion of their Notes will be determined by reference to the volume weighted average prices of our common stock for each trading day in a 30 trading-day observation period. Accordingly, if the price of our common stock decreases during such observation period, the amount and/or value of consideration holders receive will be adversely affected. In addition, if the market price of our common stock at the end of such period is below the average of the volume weighted average price of our common stock during such period, the value of any shares of our common stock that holders will receive in satisfaction of our conversion obligation will be less than the value used to determine the number of shares that holders will receive.. If we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation solely in shares of our common stock upon conversion of the Notes, we will be required to deliver the shares of our common stock, together with cash for any fractional share, three business days after the relevant conversion date. Accordingly, if the price of our common stock decreases during this period, the value of the shares that holders receive will be adversely affected and would be less than the conversion value of the Notes on the conversion date.. The Notes are not protected by restrictive covenants.. The indenture governing the Notes does not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. The indenture contains no covenants or other provisions to afford protection to holders of the Notes in the event of a fundamental change or other corporate transaction involving us except under limited circumstances.. The increase in the conversion rate for Notes converted in connection with a make-whole fundamental change may not adequately compensate holders for any lost value of their Notes as a result of such transaction.. If a make-whole fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date, under certain circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of our common stock for Notes converted in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. The increase in the conversion rate will be determined based on the date on which the specified corporate transaction becomes effective and the price paid (or deemed to be paid) per share of our common stock in such transaction. The increase in the conversion rate for Notes converted in connection with a make-whole fundamental change may not adequately compensate holders for any lost value of their Notes as a result of such transaction. Our obligation to increase the conversion rate for Notes converted in connection with a make-whole fundamental change could be considered a penalty, in which case the enforceability thereof would be subject to general principles of reasonableness and equitable remedies.. The conversion rate of the Notes may not be adjusted for all dilutive events.. The conversion rate of the Notes is subject to adjustment for certain events, including, but not limited to, the issuance of certain stock dividends on our common stock, the issuance of certain rights or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of capital stock, indebtedness, or assets, cash dividends and certain issuer tender or exchange offers. However, the conversion rate will not be adjusted for other events, such as a third-party tender or exchange offer or an issuance of common stock for cash that may adversely affect the trading price of the Notes or our common stock. An event that adversely affects the value of the Notes may occur, and that event may not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate.. Provisions in the indenture for the Notes may deter or prevent a business combination that may be favorable to holders of the Notes.. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the Notes, holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes. In addition, if a make-whole fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the Notes, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Notes in connection with such fundamental change. Furthermore, the indenture for the Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes. These and other provisions in the indenture could deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us even when the acquisition may be favorable to holders of the Notes.. Some significant restructuring transactions may not constitute a fundamental change, in which case we would not be obligated to offer to repurchase the Notes.. 32. Table of Contents. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders have the right to require us to repurchase their Notes. However, the fundamental change provisions will not afford protection to holders of Notes in the event of other transactions that could adversely affect the Notes. For example, transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations, refinancings, restructurings, or acquisitions initiated by us may not constitute a fundamental change requiring us to repurchase the Notes. In the event of any such transaction, the holders would not have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes, even though each of these transactions could increase the amount of our indebtedness, or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings, thereby adversely affecting the holders of Notes.. We have not registered the Notes or the common stock issuable upon conversion, if any, which will limit holders' ability to resell them.. The Notes and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes, if any, have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or any state securities laws. Unless the Notes and any shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Notes have been registered, they may not be transferred or resold except in a transaction exempt from or not subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. We do not intend to file a registration statement for the resale of the Notes and the common stock, if any, into which the Notes are convertible.. An active trading market may not develop for the Notes.. Prior to our issuance of the Notes, there had been no trading market for the Notes. We do not intend to apply to list the Notes on any securities exchange or to arrange for quotation on any automated dealer quotation system. The liquidity of the trading market in the Notes, and the market price quoted for the Notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for this type of security and by changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industry generally. As a result, we cannot assure holders that an active trading market will develop for the Notes. If an active trading market does not develop or is not maintained, the market price and liquidity of the Notes may be adversely affected. In that case holders may not be able to sell their Notes at a particular time or holders may not be able to sell their Notes at a favorable price.. Any adverse rating of the Notes may cause their trading price to fall.. We do not intend to seek a rating on the Notes. However, if a rating service were to rate the Notes and if such rating service were to lower its rating on the Notes below the rating initially assigned to the Notes or otherwise announces its intention to put the Notes on credit watch, the trading price of the Notes could decline.. Holders of the Notes may be subject to tax if we make or fail to make certain adjustments to the conversion rate of the Notes even though such holders do not receive a corresponding cash distribution.. The conversion rate of the Notes will be adjusted in certain circumstances. Under Section 305(c) of the Code, adjustments (or failures to make adjustments) that have the effect of increasing the holders' proportionate interest in our assets or earnings may in some circumstances result in a deemed distribution to the holders. Certain of the conversion rate adjustments with respect to the Notes (including, without limitation, adjustments in respect of taxable dividends to holders of our common stock) will result in deemed distributions to the holders of Notes even though they have not received any cash or property as a result of such adjustments. In addition, an adjustment to the conversion rate in connection with a make-whole fundamental change may be treated as a deemed distribution. Any deemed distributions will be taxable as a dividend, return of capital, or capital gain. If holders are a \"non-U.S. holder\" under the Code any deemed dividend may be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a 30% rate or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable tax treaty, which may be set off against subsequent payments on the Notes (or in certain circumstances, on the common stock). Under proposed regulations relating to certain \"dividend equivalent\" payments, an adjustment to the conversion rate of the Notes as a result of a dividend on our common stock may be subject to withholding tax at a different time or in a different amount than the withholding tax otherwise imposed on dividends and constructive dividends.. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the Notes and our common stock.. In connection with the pricing of the Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, Credit Suisse International, Citibank, N.A., and Bank of America, N.A., or the option counterparties. We also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties pursuant to which we will sell warrants for the purchase of our common stock. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of the Notes. The warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants. However, subject to certain conditions, we may elect to settle the warrant transactions in cash.. 33. Table of Contents. The option counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Notes and prior to the maturity of the Notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes or following any repurchase of Notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Notes, which could affect holders' ability to convert the Notes and, to the extent the activity occurs during any observation period related to a conversion of Notes, it could affect the amount and value of the consideration that holders will receive upon conversion of the Notes.. In addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the Notes. The potential effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the Notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the Notes (and as a result, the value of the consideration, the amount of cash and/or the number of shares, if any, that holders would receive upon the conversion of the Notes) and, under certain circumstances, holders' ability to convert the Notes. The convertible note hedge transactions and the warrant transactions are separate transactions (in each case entered into between us and the option counterparties), are not part of the terms of the Notes and will not affect the holders' rights under the Notes. Holders of the Notes will not have any rights with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions or the warrant transactions.. We do not make any representation or prediction as to the direction or magnitude of any potential effect that the transactions described above may have on the price of the Notes or our common stock. In addition, we do not make any representation that the option counterparties will engage in these transactions or that these transactions, once commenced, will not be discontinued without notice.. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions.. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we will be subject to the risk that any or all of them might default under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. Recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings, with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with that option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, an increase in our exposure will be correlated to an increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties."
