[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the financial and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. If any of the following risks, such other risks or the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in the section entitled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\", actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and prospects could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Risks Related to Our Business. The success of our business depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain customers of, and contributors to, our online platform and marketplace for creative content in a cost-efficient manner. If customers reduce or cease their spending with us, or if content contributors reduce or end their participation in our marketplace, our business will be harmed.. The continued use of our platform by customers and contributors is critical to our success. Our future performance largely depends on our ability to attract new, and retain existing, contributors and paying customers. We benefit from significant network effects: our growing audience of paying users attracts more content from contributors, which increases our content selection and in turn attracts additional paying customers, and therefore, we must regularly grow our customer base. Further, we must also ensure that our current customers remain active purchasers of our products given that the majority of our revenue is derived from customers who have purchased with us in the past. Our ability to attract new customers and contributors, and to incentivize our customers to continue purchasing our products and our contributors to add new content to our marketplace depends on several factors, including:. • the scope of content available for licensing;. • the effectiveness of our marketing efforts;. • the features and functionality of our platform;. • our current products and services and ability to expand our offerings;. • our customers' and contributors' user experience in using our platform; and. • the quality and accuracy of our search algorithms.. We spend a significant amount on marketing activities to acquire new customers and retain and engage existing customers, and we expect our marketing expenses to continue to account for a significant portion of our operating expenses. For example, in 2017, 2016 and 2015 our advertising costs, which have historically been the most significant component of our marketing expenses, were approximately $76.6 million, $64.9 million and $53.0 million, respectively. If our marketing activities prove less successful than anticipated in attracting new customers or retaining existing customers, we may not be able to recover our marketing spend, we may not acquire new customers or our cost to acquire new customers may increase, and our existing customers may reduce the frequency or size of their purchases from us. Further, a significant portion of our marketing spend consists of search engine marketing and a major search engine operator could change its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or non-paid search ranking, and competitive dynamics could impact the effectiveness of search engine marketing or search engine optimization. If our marketing efforts to attract new paying customers or retain existing paying customers are not successful, we may not accomplish cost-effective acquisition of customers.. If we are unable to grow our customer and contributor base, or retain our existing contributors and paying customers, or are unable to attract paying customers in a cost-effective manner, our financial performance, operating results and business may be adversely affected.. The market in which we operate is highly competitive with low barriers to entry and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could suffer.. The industry in which we operate is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving, with low barriers to entry. We compete with a wide and diverse array of companies, from significant media companies to individual content creators. Our current and potential domestic and international competitors range from large established companies to emerging start-ups across different industries, including online marketplace and traditional stock content suppliers of current and archival creative and editorial imagery, photography, stock footage, and music; specialized visual content companies in specific geographic segments; providers of commercially licensable music; websites specializing in image search, recognition, discovery and consumption; websites that host and store images, art and other related products; providers of cloud-based digital asset management tools; social networking and social media services; and commissioned photographers and photography agencies.. 13. Table of Contents. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the creative content industry include: quality, relevance and breadth of content; the ability to source new content; content licensing options and the degree to which users are protected from legal risk; the effective use of current and emerging technology; accessibility of content, distribution capability, and speed and ease of search and fulfillment; brand recognition and reputation; customer service; and the global nature of a company's interfaces and marketing efforts, including local languages, currencies, and payment methods. If our competitors use their experience and resources to provide an offering that is more attractive to customers across these categories, or if our competitors innovate and provide products faster than we can, we may be unable to compete effectively and our business will be harmed.. Many of our competitors have or may obtain significantly greater financial, marketing or other resources or greater brand awareness than we have. Some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or expanding technology and devote more resources to product development, marketing or content acquisition than we can. Additionally, some of these competitors may acquire, invest in or partner with other competitors or leverage their own image-related competencies to enter our market. While we believe that there are obstacles to creating a meaningful network effect between customers and contributors, the barriers to creating a platform that allows for the licensing of digital content or provides workflow tools are low. If competitors offer higher royalties, easier submission workflows, or less rigorous vetting processes or incentivize contributors to distribute their content on an exclusive basis, contributors may choose to stop distributing new content with us or remove their existing content from our collection. Further, as technology advances or other market dynamics make creating, sourcing, archiving, indexing, reviewing, searching or delivering creative content easier or more affordable, our existing and potential competitors may also seek to develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render many of the products, services and content types that we offer obsolete or less competitive. For any of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors.. In addition, demand for our products and services is sensitive to price. Many external factors, including our technology and personnel costs and our competitors' pricing and marketing strategies, could significantly impact our pricing strategies and we could fail to meet our customers' pricing expectations. Increased competition and pricing pressures may result in reduced sales, lower margins, losses or the failure of our product and services to maintain and grow their current market share, any of which could harm our business.. If we cannot continue to innovate technologically or develop, market and offer new products and services, or enhance existing technology and products and services to meet customer requirements, our ability to grow our revenue could be impaired.. Our growth depends on our ability to innovate and add value to our existing e-commerce platform and to provide our customers and contributors with a scalable, high-performing technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased customer and contributor usage globally, as well as the deployment of new features. For example, a video footage clip represents significantly more data as compared to a still image, and if the proportion of our business related to video footage licensing and our video footage library continue to grow, we will need to expand and enhance our technological capabilities to ingest, store and search video content in ways that are similar to our management of images. Without improvements to our technology and infrastructure, our operations might suffer from unanticipated system disruptions, slow application performance or unreliable service levels, any of which could negatively affect our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers and contributors. We are currently making, and plan to continue to make, significant investments to support and enhance the technology and infrastructure supporting our customer and contributor facing websites and software platforms and to evolve our information processes and computer systems to more efficiently run our business and remain competitive. Our technology investments have increased, and may continue to increase, our operating costs and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits, significant growth or increased market share from these investments for several years, if at all. If we are unable to manage our investments successfully or in a cost efficient manner, our business and results of operations may be harmed.. Our growth also depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services. The process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is complex, costly and uncertain and we may not execute successfully on our vision or strategy because of challenges such as product planning and timing, technical hurdles, or a lack of resources. The success of our products depends on several factors, including our ability to:. • anticipate customers' and contributors' changing needs or emerging technological trends;. • timely develop, complete and introduce innovative new products and enhancements;. • differentiate our products from those of our competitors;. • effectively market our products and gain market acceptance;. • price our products competitively; and. 14. Table of Contents. • provide timely, effective and accurate support to our customers and contributors.. We may be unable to successfully identify new product opportunities or enhancements, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products. There can be no assurance that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or less competitive. If we are unsuccessful in innovating our technology or in identifying new or enhancing our existing product offerings, our ability to compete in the marketplace, to attract and retain customers and contributors and to grow our revenue could be impaired.. We face risks resulting from the digital content in our collection such as unforeseen costs related to infringement claims, potential liability arising from indemnification claims and the inability to prevent misuse.. Our digital content is licensed from copyright owners such as photographers, illustrators, videographers and composers who contribute content to our collection and, subject to our licenses with our contributors, we typically offer customers a perpetual, royalty-free license to use the content for their editorial or commercial needs. Although we have implemented measures to review the content that we accept into our collection, we cannot guarantee that each contributor holds the rights or releases he or she claims or that such rights and releases are adequate, which in turn affects the licenses granted to our customer. As a result, we and our customers have been, and in the future will likely be, subject to third-party claims, including intellectual property infringement claims, related to our customers' use of our content.. Under our license agreements with our contributors, our contributors represent and warrant that they have the right to license content to us. Under our license agreements with our customers, we expressly represent and warrant that unaltered content downloaded and used in compliance with our license agreements and applicable law will not infringe any copyright, trademark or other intellectual property right, violate any third party's rights of privacy or publicity, violate any U.S. law, be defamatory or libelous, or be pornographic or obscene. We offer our customers indemnification at amounts ranging from $10,000 to $250,000, with exceptions for certain products for which our indemnification obligations are uncapped, for direct damages attributable to our breach of the express representations and warranties contained in our license agreements. However, our contractual maximum liability may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions. The aggregate amount of capped indemnification liability, or the amount of uncapped indemnification liability in individual instances, may be significant. Any customers who seek indemnification claims from us may also discontinue use of our products and services, which could harm our business.. While we maintain insurance policies to cover potential intellectual property disputes, and have not historically incurred any material financial liability as a result of these indemnification obligations individually or in the aggregate, we have incurred, and will expect to continue to incur, expenses related to such claims and related settlements, which may increase over time. If a third-party infringement claim or series of claims is brought against us in excess of our insurance coverage or for uninsured liabilities, our business could suffer. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts or scope to protect us against all losses.. Further, unauthorized parties have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to improperly use the digital content in our collection and such misuse of our content may result in lost revenue and increase our risk of litigation. While we have proactively enforced our intellectual property rights, preventing misuse or infringement of our content is inherently difficult and we rely on intellectual property laws and contractual restrictions to protect our rights and the digital content in our collection. Certain countries may be very lax in enforcing intellectual property laws or have very onerous and time-consuming requirements to enforce intellectual property rights. Litigation in those countries will likely be costly and ineffective. Consequently, these intellectual property laws afford us only limited protection. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to prevent the unauthorized use of our digital content or that we will be successful in stopping such use once it is detected.. Regardless of their merit, intellectual property and indemnification claims are time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and cause significant diversion of management attention and could severely harm our financial condition and reputation, and adversely affect our business.. Unless we increase market awareness of our brand and our existing and new products and services, our revenue may not continue to grow.. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our products and services and that our ability to attract and retain new customers and contributors depends in large part on our ability to increase our brand awareness. We have and may continue to expend significant resources on advertising, marketing, and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance customer and contributor awareness of our brand, products and services. For example, in 2015, we launched Shutterstock Editorial to expand and grow our editorial content offering to a broad range of customers. We have incurred and expect to incur significant costs in developing and marketing this product to obtain user acceptance and we may not be successful in our efforts to increase awareness and market share of this product. Our competitors may be able to achieve and maintain brand awareness and market share more quickly and effectively than we can.. 15. Table of Contents. Our brand may be impaired by a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns, disruptions in service due to technology, data privacy and security issues, and exploitation of our trademarks and other intellectual property by others without our permission. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to be a leading e-commerce platform for high-quality digital content, tools and services for creative professionals and to continue to provide a user experience that anticipates our customers' needs. Additionally, our marketing campaigns or other efforts to increase our brand awareness may not succeed in bringing new visitors to our platform or converting such visitors to paying customers or contributors and may not be cost-effective. It is possible that, as our industry becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive and our efforts may not be successful.. We have experienced significant growth in recent periods and if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results may suffer.. We have experienced significant growth and expect to continue to experience such growth. For example, our revenues increased from $425.1 million in 2015 to $494.3 million in 2016 and to $557.1 million in 2017. The pace of this growth has placed, and we expect that the pace of future growth will continue to place, significant demands on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage this growth effectively. As our operations have grown in size, scope and complexity, we have made and expect to continue to make significant expenditures and allocate valuable management resources to improve and upgrade our technology, customer service, sales and marketing infrastructure and product offerings, including new product offerings, and to continue developing or acquiring new and relevant content and product offerings. Continued rapid growth may also strain our ability to maintain reliable operation of our e-commerce platform, enhance our operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel. If we fail to allocate limited resources effectively in our organization as it grows and do not successfully implement improved technology and infrastructure, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer.. We may not continue to grow our revenues at historical rates.. Our future profitability will depend in part on our continued ability to grow our revenues; however, we have seen a deceleration in our growth rate, which may continue, and we may not even be able to grow at all. In future periods, our revenue could grow more slowly than in recent periods or further decline for many reasons, including any increase in competition, reduction in demand for our products, inability to introduce new products or enhance our existing product offerings, pricing pressures, contraction of our overall market or our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities. In addition, while we plan to manage our growth in a cost-effective manner, we expect expenses to increase in the near term, particularly as we continue to make significant investments in our technology and operational infrastructure, continue to expand our operations globally and develop new products and features for, and enhancements of, our existing products. A significant decrease in our historical rate of growth may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if our growth rates decline, investors' perceptions of our business may be adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Technological interruptions that impair access to our websites or the efficiency of our marketplace could damage our reputation and brand and adversely affect our results of operations.. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites and our network infrastructure are critical to our reputation, our ability to attract and retain customers and contributors to our platform and our ability to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any system interruptions that result in the unavailability of our websites could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand or adversely affect our results of operations. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience temporary system interruptions for a variety of reasons, including security breaches and other security incidents, viruses, telecommunication and other network failures, power failures, programming errors, data corruption, denial-of-service attacks, or an overwhelming number of visitors trying to reach our websites during periods of strong demand. Even a disruption as brief as a few minutes could have a negative impact on our marketplace activities and could result in a loss of revenue.. The internet infrastructure generally has also experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. We rely upon third-party service providers, such as co-location and cloud service providers, for our data centers and application hosting, and we are dependent on these third parties to provide continuous power, cooling, internet connectivity and physical security for our servers, and our reliance on these third-parties can be expected to increase as we expand our infrastructure in the future. In the event that these third-party providers experience any interruption in operations or cease business for any reason, or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, our business could be harmed and we could be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. Although our use of multiple production data centers enables us to provide rapid content delivery to our customers and to support business continuity in the event of an emergency, a system disruption at an active data center or third-party hosting service provider could result in a noticeable disruption and. 16. Table of Contents. performance degradation to our websites.. Because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we have entered into service level agreements with some of our larger customers and strategic partners. Technological interruptions could result in a breach of such agreements and subject us to considerable penalties and could cause our customers to believe our service is unreliable, causing our business, reputation and financial condition harm.. Assertions by third parties of infringement of intellectual property rights related to our technology could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results.. Internet, technology and media companies are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights or rights related to their use of technology. Some internet, technology and media companies, including some of our competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, which they may use to assert claims against us. Our technology is critical to our business and we have developed proprietary technology and a robust infrastructure to power our products and services. Third parties may in the future assert that the technology we have developed infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates their intellectual property rights, and as we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Such litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence to these patent owners in bringing intellectual property rights claims against us. Existing laws and regulations are evolving and subject to different interpretations, and various federal and state legislative or regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws or regulations. We cannot guarantee that our technology is not infringing or violating any third-party intellectual property rights or rights related to use of technology.. We cannot predict whether assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or any infringement or misappropriation or other claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and operating results. If we are forced to defend against any infringement or misappropriation claims, whether they are with or without merit, are settled out of court, or are determined in our favor, we may be required to expend significant time and financial resources on the defense of such claims.. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's intellectual property; expend additional development resources to redesign our technology; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, content, or materials; and to indemnify our partners and other third parties. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required or desirable, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may require significant royalty payments and other expenditures. In addition, any lawsuits regarding intellectual property rights, regardless of their success, could be expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel.. Our international operations and our continued expansion internationally expose us to many risks.. Revenues derived from customers outside of the United States comprise a significant portion of our revenues and we seek to expand our international operations to attract customers and contributors in countries other than the United States as a critical element of our business strategy. For each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately two-thirds of our revenue, respectively, was derived from customers located outside of the United States. While a significant portion of our customers reside outside of the United States, we have limited experience operating as a company outside the United States. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to international expansion through, for example, the possibility of establishing additional offices, hiring additional overseas personnel, entering into strategic arrangements with local partners, and exploring acquisition opportunities. In addition, we expect to increase marketing for our foreign language offerings and to further localize our collection and user experience for foreign markets. Our ability to expand our business and attract talented employees, as well as customers and contributors, in an increasing number of international markets requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, regulatory systems and commercial infrastructures. If we fail to deploy, manage or oversee our international operations successfully, our business may suffer.. Additionally, expanding our international focus may subject us to risks that we have not faced before or increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with:. • modifying our technology and marketing and localizing our offerings for customers' and contributors' preferences, customs and language;. 17. Table of Contents. • legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in foreign countries, including, among others, restrictions imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) on the ability of U.S. companies to do business in certain specified foreign countries or with certain specified organizations and individuals;. • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions;. • compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including with respect to disclosure requirements, privacy, consumer and data protection, marketing restrictions, human rights, rights of publicity, technology and content;. • government regulation of e-commerce and other services and restrictive governmental actions on the distribution of content, such as censorship;. • disturbances in a specific country's or region's political, economic or military conditions, including potential sanctions (e.g., significant civil, political and economic disturbances in Russia, Ukraine and the Crimean peninsula);. • lower levels of consumer spending in foreign countries or lack of adoption of the internet as a medium of commerce;. • longer payment cycles in some countries, increased credit risk, and higher levels of payment fraud;. • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries;. • enhanced difficulties of integrating any foreign acquisitions;. • difficulty in staffing, developing, managing and overseeing foreign operations as a result of travel distance, language and cultural differences as well as infrastructure, human resources and legal compliance costs;. • difficulty enforcing contractual rights in our license agreements;. • potential adverse foreign tax consequences, especially those that may result from the expected proactive global development of greater efforts to identify, capture and subject to income and transactional tax, e-commerce revenue earned solely via the internet;. • currency exchange fluctuations, hyperinflation, or devaluation;. • strains on our financial and other systems to properly administer VAT, withholdings, sales and other taxes; and. • higher costs associated with doing business internationally.. These risks may make it impossible or prohibitively expensive to expand to new international markets, or delay entry into such markets, which may affect our ability to grow our business. As international e-commerce and other online and web services grow, competition is expected to intensify and local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. If we do not effectively enter new international markets, our competitive advantage may be harmed.. Further, the United Kingdom has begun the process of separation from the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\"). In 2017, sales to customers in the United Kingdom accounted for approximately 9% of our total revenue and sales to customers in Europe, including the United Kingdom, accounted for approximately 33% of our total revenue. Brexit may cause volatility in exchange rates or otherwise affect the value of the British pound or other European countries' currencies as compared to one another or as compared to the U.S. dollar, and may have adverse effects on the UK or other European economies. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations, such as those related to data privacy, as the United Kingdom determines which E.U. laws to reject, replace or replicate.. We are subject to foreign exchange risk.. As of December 31, 2017, we had operations based in a number of territories outside of the United States and a significant portion of our business may be transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar and the Japanese yen. Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the value of the euro, British pound, Australian dollar, Japanese yen and other currencies against the U.S. dollar have had and will continue to have a significant effect on our reported financial results. Exchange rates have been volatile in recent years and such volatility may persist due to economic and political circumstances.. 18. Table of Contents. A decline in the value of any of the foreign currencies in which we receive revenues, including the euro, British pound, Australian dollar and Japanese yen, against the U.S. dollar will tend to reduce our reported revenues and expenses, while an increase in the value of any such foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar will tend to increase our reported revenues and expenses. Variations in exchange rates can significantly affect the comparability of our financial results between financial periods. As we further expand our international operations, our exposure to foreign exchange risk will increase.. At this time we do not, but we may in the future, enter into derivatives or other financial instruments in order to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. It is difficult to predict the impact hedging activities would have on our results of operations and any future actions we may take with respect to hedging our foreign currency exchange risk may be unsuccessful.. As the portion of our sales to large corporate customers grows, we may encounter greater pricing pressure, and increased service, indemnification and working capital requirements, each of which could increase our costs and harm our business and operating results.. In order to continue to attract and retain customers, particularly larger corporate customers, we may face greater demands in terms of increased service requirements, greater indemnification requirements, greater pricing pressure, and greater working capital to accommodate the larger receivables and collections issues that are likely to occur as a result of being paid on credit terms. If we are unable to adequately address those demands or manage our resources, our ability to grow our business may be harmed, which may adversely affect our results of operations and future growth. If we address those demands in a way that expands our risk of indemnification claims, significantly increases our operating costs, reduces our ability to maintain or increase pricing, or increases our working capital requirements, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer.. Government regulation of the internet, both in the United States and abroad, is evolving and unfavorable changes could have a negative impact on our business.. The adoption, modification or interpretation of laws or regulations relating to the internet, e-commerce or other areas of our business could adversely affect how we conduct our business or the overall popularity and growth of internet use. Such laws and regulations may cover a vast array of activities. For example, automatic contract or subscription renewal, credit card fraud and processing, sales, advertising, taxation, tariffs, data privacy, management and storage, cyber-security, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, outsourcing, broadband residential internet access, internet neutrality and the characteristics and quality of products or services, and intellectual property ownership and infringement are all subject to jurisdictional laws and regulations. In certain countries, including European jurisdictions in particular, certain of these laws may be more restrictive than in the United States. It is not clear how some existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, data privacy and security apply to the internet and e-commerce as many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the internet or e-commerce. Those laws that relate to the internet are at various stages of development and are subject to amendment, interpretation or repeal by the courts and agencies, and thus, the scope and reach of their applicability can be uncertain. For example, on December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission (the \"FCC\") voted to repeal net neutrality regulations that prohibit blocking, degrading or prioritizing certain types of internet traffic, however, the repeal has not yet taken effect and the future impact of such repeal and any challenges thereto remains uncertain. Users who access our marketplace through devices such as smart phones, laptops, and tablet computers must have a high-speed Internet connection, such as Wi-Fi, 3G, or 4G, to use our services. Currently, this access is provided by telecommunications companies and Internet access service providers that have significant and increasing market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace. If the repeal of net neutrality takes effect, these providers could take measures that affect their customers' ability to use our products and services, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving our packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely, or attempting to charge their customers more for using our products and services. To the extent that Internet service providers implement usage-based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks, we could incur greater operating expenses and customer acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of Internet access service and either charge us or their customers for availability of our services through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted.. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses, make it more difficult to renew subscriptions automatically, make it more difficult to attract new customers or otherwise require us to alter our business model, or cause us to divert resources and funds to address government or private investigatory or adversarial proceedings. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against us.. We currently provide content licensing to customers in more than 150 countries. The data privacy, security and localization, censorship and liability standards and other potentially applicable rules or regulations, and intellectual property laws, of those foreign countries, may be different than those in the United States. To the extent that any local laws or regulations apply to our company or operations and we are deemed to not be in compliance with them, our business may be harmed. For example, the EU and the U.S. formally entered into a new framework in July 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the U.S. This framework, called the Privacy Shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the European Court of Justice in a predecessor mechanism. The Privacy Shield and other mechanisms are likely to be reviewed by the European courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers from EU member states to the United States. Further, on April 14, 2016, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\") was adopted within Europe, which will become effective on May 25, 2018. The GDPR will have significant impacts on how businesses that operate in the European Union or offer goods or services to EU citizens can collect and process personal data. We are undertaking measures that we believe will make us compliant with the GDPR by the effective date. Technological efforts to build new capabilities to facilitate compliance with the GDPR have required and may continue to require substantial expense and the diversion of resources from other projects. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to us may limit the use and adoption of our products, alter the way we conduct business and/or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If we fail to comply with these laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions or fines in one or more jurisdictions. For example, a failure to comply with the GDPR could result in fines up to the greater of \20020 million or 4% of annual global revenues.. Ongoing legal reviews by regulators may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements affecting the location and movement of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data. Compliance may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. Failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity, all of which could negatively affect our results of operations.. Action by governments to restrict access to, or operation of, our products or services in their countries could substantially harm our business and financial results.. Foreign governments, or internet service providers acting pursuant to foreign government policies or orders, of one or more countries may seek to censor content available through our e-commerce platform in their country, restrict access to our products and services from their country entirely, or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our products or services in their country for an extended period of time or indefinitely if our products and services are deemed to be in violation of their local laws and regulations. For example, domestic internet service providers have blocked and continue to block access to Shutterstock in China and other countries, such as Turkey, have intermittently restricted access to Shutterstock. There are substantial uncertainties regarding interpretation of foreign laws and regulations that censor content available through our products and services and we may be forced to significantly change or discontinue our operations in such markets if we were to be found in violation of any new or existing law or regulation. If access to our products and services is restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors can successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our contributor and customer base may be adversely affected, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue as anticipated, and our financial results could be adversely affected.. Expansion of our operations into new products, services and technologies, including content categories, is inherently risky and may subject us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks.. Historically, our operations have been focused on our marketplace for creative content and our digital asset management platform, Webdam. Further expansion of our operations and our marketplace into additional content categories, such as Shutterstock Editorial or into new products and services, such as Shutterstock Custom, a provider of custom visual content we acquired in July 2017, or our workflow tool Shutterstock Editor, involves numerous risks and challenges, including increased capital requirements, potential new competitors, the need to develop new contributor and strategic relationships and increased marketing spend to gain brand awareness of these new operations. Growth into additional content and service areas may require changes to our existing business model and cost structure and modifications to our infrastructure and may expose us to new regulatory and legal risks, any of which may require expertise in which we have little or no experience. There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue from sales of such content and services to offset the costs of developing, acquiring, managing and monetizing such content and services and our business may be adversely affected.. 20. Table of Contents. Security breaches and improper access to or disclosure of data or confidential information we maintain, or hacking or phishing attacks on our systems, could expose us to liability, protracted and costly litigation and damage our reputation.. As a global technology business, we and our third-party service providers collect and maintain confidential information and personal data about our employees, customers, contributors and other third parties, in connection with marketplace-related processes on our websites and, in particular, in connection with processing and remitting payments to and from our customers and contributors, and are therefore exposed to security and fraud-related risks, which are likely to become more challenging as we expand our operations. Although we maintain security features on our websites and utilize encryption and authentication technology, our security measures may not detect or prevent all attempts to hack our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted by our websites. Additionally, we use third-party service providers, including payment processors and co-location and cloud service vendors for our data centers and application hosting, to operate our business, and their security measures may not prevent security breaches and other disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through their systems. Further, some of the software and services that we use to operate our business, including our internal e-mail and customer relationship management software, are hosted by third parties. It is possible that a breach of any of these systems could go undetected for an extended period of time. If these services were to experience a security breach or be interrupted or were to cause us to lose control of confidential information, our business operations could be disrupted and we could be exposed to liability and costly litigation.. Although cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of the processes, practices and controls that are designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access are a high priority for us, our efforts may not be enough to prevent a party from circumventing our security measures, or the security measures of our third-party service providers, and accessing and misusing the confidential information of our employees, customers and contributors. In addition, a significant cybersecurity breach could result in payment networks prohibiting us from processing transactions on their networks.. As the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, attack, disable or degrade services, or sabotage systems, are constantly evolving in sophisticated ways to avoid detection, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. We may also be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Any actual breach, the perceived threat of a breach or a perceived breach, could cause our customers, contributors and other third parties to cease doing business with us, or subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines and other action or liability, any of which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operation.. Any compromise of security may result in us being out of compliance with U.S. federal and state laws, and international laws and contractual commitments, and we may be subject to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, and other costs, including for provision of breach notices and credit monitoring to our customers. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state, or international privacy, security or consumer protection-related laws and regulations, could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our operations may expose us to greater than anticipated income, non-income, and transactional tax liabilities, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. We have operations in various taxing jurisdictions in the United States and foreign countries, and there is a risk that the fiscal authorities in one or more jurisdictions may contend that our tax liabilities and/or obligation to remit transactional taxes could be greater relative to prior taxable periods and more than anticipated relative to future taxable periods.. We believe our worldwide provision for taxes is reasonable, but our ultimate tax liability may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially adversely affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We have created reserves with respect to such tax liabilities where we believe it to be appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that our ultimate tax liability will not exceed the reserves that we have created.. In addition, there are a number of applicable and potential government regulatory matters that will/may impact the Company:. The enactment of the TCJA has a significant impact on the Company's financial statements for 2017 and will have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future years, as well. Certain provisions of the TCJA are likely to undergo revisions or to expire on certain specified future dates, unless such provisions are further amended in subsequent legislation. There are numerous unresolved questions regarding how certain provisions of the TCJA are to be interpreted and implemented. Therefore, there continues to be uncertainty as to what the ultimate impact of the new law will be on the Company's financial condition and results of operations in the future.. 21. Table of Contents. In connection with the TCJA, several foreign jurisdictions and administrative bodies such as the EU, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the \"OECD\"), and the World Trade Organization (WTO), have expressed reservations and concerns about certain of the provisions of the TCJA and it is possible that formal challenges or reactionary regulatory legislation may be instituted by one or more foreign authorities that could adversely affect the Company and/or negate or minimize any favorable impact that the Company may derive from the TCJA in the future.. With respect to cross-border taxation of e-commerce business generally, the fiscal authorities of virtually every jurisdiction have expressed significant interest in the potential taxation of e-commerce businesses. The OECD has issued guidelines, referred to as the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, or BEPS, to its member-nations aimed at encouraging broad-based legislative initiatives intended to prevent base erosion transactions and income shifting in a tax-advantaged manner. One of the most important areas that the OECD has focused on is the taxation implications of e-commerce businesses.  The OECD issued a report entitled Addressing the Tax Challenges in the Digital Economy, commonly referred to as \"Action 1,\" which called for further review and study with the stated expectation that legislative recommendations that seek to equitably allocate the right to tax e-commerce businesses among all of the jurisdictions that might have an interest in assessing taxes would be forthcoming as soon as 2018. While not mandatory, any recommendations by the OECD are likely to be adopted in whole or in part by OECD member-nations as well as other jurisdictions that are otherwise non-members, which could impact the Company's tax liabilities. Further, it is possible that any efforts to implement any such expanded policies to tax e-commerce businesses by these jurisdictions may be uncoordinated and result in greater or even double taxation that companies may not have sufficient means to remedy. Efforts to alleviate this increased tax burden may increase the cost of structuring and compliance.  Due to the expanding scale of our international business activities, these recent and potential changes to the taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.. The Supreme Court of the United States (the \"Supreme Court\") has agreed to hear during the current spring term the appeal from the South Dakota Supreme Court of the matter of South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. This case is expected to directly revisit the 25-year-old \"doctrine\" previously established by the Supreme Court in Quill Corp. v. North Dakota, which requires a minimum physical presence within a state in order to permit the state to impose sales tax on revenue derived within that state. It is possible that the Supreme Court may modify or abandon the Quill standard in a manner that would significantly expand the liability of e-commerce companies such as us to collect and remit state sales taxes from customers. Any such change may impact our sales and create administrative and compliance burdens on the Company.. Our operations may expose us to greater than anticipated withholding, sales and transaction tax liabilities, including VAT, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. The prospective taxation of e-commerce business from both an income and transactional perspective is uncertain. Accordingly, as this area develops, we may have exposure to withholding, sales or other transaction taxes (including VAT) on our past and future transactions in such jurisdictions where we currently or in the future may be required to report taxable transactions. A successful assertion by any jurisdiction that we failed to pay such withholding, sales or other transaction taxes, or the imposition of new laws requiring the payment of such taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales, create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage customers from purchasing digital content from us, or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations.. Further, we are currently subject to and in the future may become subject to additional compliance requirements for certain of these taxes. Where appropriate, we have made accruals for these taxes, which are reflected in our consolidated financial statements.  Within the next three years, we believe that the resolution of certain of these tax matters are reasonably possible and that a change in estimate may occur. While such a change may be significant, it is not possible to provide a range of the potential change until such matters progress further or the related statutes of limitation expire.. Failure to protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and operating results.. We regard our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and our other intellectual property rights as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection, and non-disclosure agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered or applied to register \"Shutterstock\", \"Offset\", \"Bigstock\", \"Webdam\", \"PremiumBeat\" and \"Rex Features\" and associated logos and other marks as trademarks in the United States and other jurisdictions and we are the registered owner of the shutterstock.com, bigstock.com, offset.com, webdam.com, premiumbeat.com and rexfeatures.com internet domain names and various other related domain names. Effective intellectual property protection for our trademarks and domain names may not be available or practical in every country in which we operate or intend to operate.. 22. Table of Contents. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and trade secrets, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our intellectual property, trade secrets and other confidential information, or adopt domain names, trademarks or service names confusingly similar to ours. In order to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of misappropriation of trade secrets or any unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets or other confidential information.. Policing our intellectual property rights is difficult, costly and may not always be effective. Litigation or proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patent rights, trademarks, trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others is and will be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. The monitoring and protection of our intellectual property rights may become more difficult, costly and time consuming as we continue to expand internationally, particularly in certain markets, such as China and certain other developing countries in Asia, in which legal protection of intellectual property rights is less robust than in the United States and Europe. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management time, each of which could substantially harm our operating results.. Much of the software and technologies used to provide our services incorporate, or have been developed with, \"open source\" software, which may restrict how we use or distribute our services or require that we publicly release certain portions of our source code.. Much of the software and technologies used to provide our services incorporate, or have been developed with, \"open source\" software. Such \"open source\" software may be subject to third party licenses that impose restrictions on our software and services. Examples of \"open source\" licenses include the GNU General Public License and GNU Lesser General Public License. Such open source licenses typically require that source code subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works to open source software continue to be licensed under open source licenses. Few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and the way these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty. If portions of our proprietary technology are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our services and technologies and materially and adversely affect our ability to sustain and grow our business. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our services that contained the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our services.. Our operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our results to fall short of expectations and our stock price to decline.. Our revenue and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period to period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include:. • our ability to retain our current customers and to attract new customers and contributors;. • our ability to provide new and relevant content to our customers;. • our ability to effectively manage our growth;. • the effects of increased competition on our business;. • our ability to keep pace with changes in technology or our competitors;. • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors;. • interruptions in service, whether or not we are responsible for such interruptions, and any related impact on our reputation and brand;. • costs associated with defending any litigation or other claims, including those related to our indemnification of our customers;. • our ability to pursue, and the timing of, entry into new geographies or markets and, if pursued, our management of this expansion;. • the impact of general economic conditions on our revenue and expenses;. 23. Table of Contents. • changes in government regulation affecting our business; and. • costs related to potential acquisitions of technology or businesses.. Because of these risks and others, it is possible that our future results may be below our expectations and the expectations of analysts and investors. In such an event, the price of our common stock may decline significantly.. If we do not successfully make, integrate and maintain acquisitions and investments, our business could be adversely impacted.. We have acquired, invested in and entered into strategic relationships with companies, and we may acquire, invest in or enter into strategic relationships with additional companies to complement our existing business and the breadth of our offerings. These transactions are inherently risky and expose us to risks which include:. • disruption of our ongoing business, including diverting management's attention from existing businesses and operations;. • difficulties integrating acquired technology and assets, including content collections, into our systems and offerings;. • risks associated with any acquired liabilities;. • difficulties integrating personnel;. • information security vulnerabilities;. • difficulties integrating accounting, financial reporting, management, infrastructure and information security, human resources and other administrative systems;. • the potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill;. • the potential damage to employee, customer, contributor and other supplier relationships; and. • other unknown liabilities.. Future acquisitions or investments could also result in potential dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of significant cash balances or the incurrence of debt, any of which could adversely affect our stock price, financial condition and results of operations.. We cannot make assurances that our investments will be successful. If we fail to effectively integrate the companies we acquire, invest in or enter into strategic relationships with, we may not realize the benefits expected from the transaction and our business may be harmed.. We rely on highly skilled personnel and if we are unable to retain and motivate key personnel, attract qualified personnel, integrate new members of our management team or maintain our corporate culture, we may not be able to grow effectively.. We are highly dependent on the continued service and performance of our senior management team, including our Founder and Chief Executive Officer Jon Oringer, as well as key personnel. We believe that the successful performance of our senior management team and key personnel is critical to managing our operations and supporting our growth. Further, many of our technologies and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of any key engineering, product development, marketing or sales personnel and our inability to implement a succession plan or find suitable replacements for any of these individuals could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our business.. Our continued and future success is also dependent, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, product development, marketing, content operations and customer service personnel and to preserve the key aspects of our corporate culture. Competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry and we may be unsuccessful in offering competitive compensation packages to attract and retain personnel. Further, we believe that a critical contributor to our success and to our recruiting efforts has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation, creativity, and teamwork. As we continue to grow and expand our operations globally, we may not be able to maintain our corporate culture, which could impact our ability to attract and retain personnel. We are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. Changes to immigration policies in the U.S. and other key jurisdictions that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately recruit and retain key employees. The failure to successfully recruit and hire key personnel or the loss of any key personnel could have a significant impact on our operations and growth.. The impact of worldwide economic and political conditions, including effects on advertising and marketing budgets, may adversely affect our business and operating results.. 24. Table of Contents. Global economic and political conditions can affect the business of our customers and the markets they serve. Numerous external forces beyond our control, including generally weak or uncertain economic conditions, negative or uncertain political climates, changes in government and election results in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate, could adversely affect our financial condition. Particularly, our financial condition is affected by worldwide economic conditions and their impact on advertising spending. Expenditures by advertisers generally tend to reflect overall economic conditions, and to the extent that the economy stagnates, companies may reduce their spending on advertising and marketing, and thus the use of our online marketplace. This could have a serious adverse impact on our business. To the extent that overall economic conditions reduce spending on advertising and marketing activities, our ability to retain current and obtain new customers could be hindered, which could reduce our revenue and negatively impact our business. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes and our business could be negatively affected.. The non-payment or late payments of amounts due to us from certain customers may negatively impact our financial condition.. Our revenue generated through direct sales to enterprise customers has grown in recent years and represented approximately 33% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, as compared to approximately 30% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016. A portion of these customers typically purchase our products on payment terms, and therefore we assume a credit risk for non-payment in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate the credit-worthiness of new customers and perform ongoing financial condition evaluations of our existing customers; however, there can be no assurance that our allowances for uncollected accounts receivable balances will be sufficient. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $4.1 million. If the volume of sales to enterprise customers continues to grow, we expect to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts primarily as the result of changes in the volume of sales to customers who pay on payment terms.. We are subject to payment-related risks that may result in higher operating costs or the inability to process payments, either of which could harm our financial condition and results of operations.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit cards and debit cards. As we offer new payment options to consumers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements and fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards and debit cards, and it could disrupt our business if these companies became unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, including if they were to suffer a cyberattack or security incident. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from consumers or facilitate other types of online payments. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder's signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. Although we have historically experienced minimal impact to our financial statements from credit card fraud, we may experience expense as a result of our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit.. We are also subject to, or voluntarily comply with, several other laws and regulations relating to money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties or forced to cease our operations.. Catastrophic events or other interruptions or failures of our information technology systems could hurt our ability to effectively provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results.. Our computers and other technological systems, as well as our data centers and the computers, systems and data centers of our third-party service providers, could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and other similar events or disruptions. Our principal executive offices are located in New York City, a region that has experienced acts of terrorism in the past. Any one of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data and could prevent our websites, e-commerce platform and infrastructure from functioning effectively, if at all. Our systems may not be adequately designed with the necessary reliability and redundancy to avoid performance delays or outages. Any insufficiency in our redundancy or disaster recovery capabilities could make our products and service offerings less attractive, subject us to liability and could be harmful to our business. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage to compensate for any related loss. Any of these events could damage our reputation and cause a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. 25. Table of Contents. We may need to raise additional capital in the future and may be unable to do so on acceptable terms or at all.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business needs, opportunities and challenges, including the need to develop new features or functions of our online marketplace, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies, or develop and carry out a response to unforeseen circumstances. Our ability to obtain additional capital, if and when required, will depend on our business plans, investor demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets, and other factors. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain additional capital when required, or are unable to obtain additional capital on satisfactory terms, our ability to continue to support our business growth or to respond to business opportunities, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances could be adversely affected, and our business may be harmed.. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We review our goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1st, or more frequently if and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist, such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. If such goodwill or intangible assets are deemed to be impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the assets would be recognized. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets is determined, which would negatively affect our results of operations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate substantially. Since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in 2012 at a price of $17.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices per share of our common stock have ranged from $21.00 to $103.01 through February 16, 2018. These fluctuations could cause our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment in our common stock since they may be unable to sell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased such shares.. The trading price of our common stock depends on a number of factors, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following:. • changes in projected operational and financial results;. • announcements about our share repurchase program, including purchases or the suspension of purchases under the program;. • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts;. • the use by investors or analysts of third-party data regarding our business that may not reflect our actual performance;. • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors or analysts to be comparable to us;. • the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, or our failure to meet such guidance;. • additions or departures of key senior management;. • fluctuations in the trading volume of our common stock;. • limited \"public float\" in the hands of a small number of investors whose sales (or lack of sales) could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; and. • general economic and market conditions.. Furthermore, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency. 26. Table of Contents. fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, certain companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their common stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business.. Jonathan Oringer, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, controls approximately 46.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and his ownership percentage may increase, including as a result of share repurchases pursuant to our share repurchase program. This concentration of ownership may have an effect on matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including elections to our board of directors and transactions that are otherwise favorable to our stockholders.. As of February 16, 2018, Jonathan Oringer, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, and our largest stockholder, owned approximately 46.5% of our outstanding shares of common stock. This concentration of ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control, and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of Mr. Oringer, regardless of the impact of such transaction on our other stockholders. Additionally, Mr. Oringer has the ability to control management and major strategic investments as a result of his position as chief executive officer.. Furthermore, if we purchase additional shares pursuant to our share repurchase program, Mr. Oringer's ownership percentage would increase, and, depending on the magnitude of our repurchases and other factors impacting dilution, could result in his owning a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. If Mr. Oringer were to own a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, he would have the ability to control the outcome of certain matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of our directors and significant corporate transactions. This could also trigger certain change in control provisions in our employment agreements and agreements relating to certain outstanding equity awards.. Purchases of shares of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program may affect the value of our common stock, and there can be no assurance that our share repurchase program will enhance stockholder value.. Pursuant to our share repurchase program which was publicly announced in November 2015, we were authorized to repurchase up to $100 million of our outstanding common stock. In February 2017, our Board authorized us to repurchase up to an additional $100 million of our outstanding common stock. We had approximately $100.0 million total remaining under these authorizations as of December 31, 2017 and February 16, 2018. The timing and amount of any share repurchases will be determined based on market conditions, share price and other factors. This activity could increase (or reduce the size of any decrease in) the market price of our common stock at the time of such repurchases. Our board has the right to amend or suspend the share repurchase program at any time or terminate the share repurchase program upon a determination that termination would be in our best interests. Additionally, repurchases under our share repurchase program have diminished and would continue to diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to pursue possible strategic opportunities and acquisitions and could result in lower overall returns on our cash balances. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance stockholder value, as the market price of our common stock may nevertheless decline.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is likely to be influenced by the reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our share price to decline.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their common stock at a time and price that they deem appropriate.. As of February 16, 2018, we had 34,745,837 shares of common stock outstanding. All shares of our common stock are freely transferable without restriction or registration under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our \"affiliates,\" which remain subject to the restrictions set forth in Rule 144 under the Securities Act.. As of February 16, 2018, the holders of approximately 16 million shares of common stock were entitled to rights with respect to registration of these shares under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration rights agreement. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering shares of common stock issuable pursuant to options granted in. 27. Table of Contents. exchange for value appreciation right, or VAR, grants outstanding as of the time of the Reorganization, as well as options and shares reserved for future issuance under our 2012 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan and our 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Shares issued pursuant to such options and plans can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and vesting, subject to the lock-up agreements contained in the terms of the award agreements delivered under such plans, unless they are held by \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 of the Securities Act.. We may also issue our shares of common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with a financing, acquisition, investment or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions that:. • authorize blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock;. • limit the liability of, and provide indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • limit the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting;. • require advance notice of stockholder proposals and the nomination of candidates for election to our board of directors;. • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election;. • require that directors only be removed from office for cause; and. • limit the determination of the number of directors on our board and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without the prior approval of our board of directors and, in certain cases, the vote of two-thirds of the shares not held by such stockholder.. These provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law, alone or together, could delay or deter hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased costs and our management will continue to face increased demands as a result of continuously improving our operations as a public company.. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant legal, tax, insurance, accounting and other expenses as a result of conducting our operations as a public company. For example, we are implementing a new enterprise resource planning software system to replace a majority of our critical finance and financial operations systems. If we experience delays or difficulties in implementing the new enterprise resource planning system, or if we otherwise do not effectively manage our growth, we may not be able to execute on our business plan, respond to competitive pressures, take advantage of market opportunities, or satisfy customer requirements, among other things.. 28. Table of Contents. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations implemented by the SEC and the stock exchanges are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. Further, there may be uncertainty regarding the implementation of these laws due to changes in the political climate and other factors. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has required and will continue to require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs to obtain directors' and officers' insurance as a result of operating as a public company, as well as additional costs necessitated by compliance matters and ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance standards.. Also, the TCJA amended Section 162(m) of the U.S. federal income tax code (\"Section 162(m)\"), which provides that public companies are not entitled to a tax deduction for individual compensation over $1 million that is paid to certain executive officers. Prior to the amendment under the TCJA, Section 162(m) provided an exception to the deductibility limitations for \"performance-based compensation\" that met certain requirements. As amended, beginning in 2018, except for certain grandfathered arrangements in place prior to November 2, 2017 under the amendment's transition rules, Section 162(m) no longer includes an exception to the limitations for \"performance-based compensation\" and expands the group of executive officers covered by the limitation. There are certain unresolved questions regarding how the grandfathering rules are to be implemented. As a result, certain cash and equity-based compensation granted to our executive officers prior to November 2, 2017 that was intended to be exempt from the Section 162(m) deduction limitations may no longer be exempt from the limitations beginning in 2018 and some of the compensation we provide to our executive officers in the future may not be deductible in 2018 and going forward.. These and other increased costs associated with operating as a public company may decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may cause us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services to offset the effect of such increased costs. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management's attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or in a timely fashion, and we may not be able to prevent fraud; in such case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock.. As a public company, we operate in an increasingly demanding regulatory environment, which requires us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, expanded disclosure requirements, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Company responsibilities required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act include establishing and maintaining corporate oversight and adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Effective internal control is necessary for us to provide reliable, timely financial reports and prevent fraud.. Our testing of our internal controls, or the testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that we would be required to remediate in a timely manner to be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act each year. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange or other regulatory authorities which would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, if we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information."
