[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Prospective investors in, and current  holders of, the Company's common stock should carefully consider the following risk factors.. <U+25E6> A worsening of economic conditions in our market area could reduce demand for our products and services and/or result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Our performance is significantly influenced by the general economic conditions in our primary markets in Connecticut and Rhode Island.  Local economic conditions have a significant impact on the ability of our borrowers to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing loans.  A deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations:. •demand for our products and services may decline;. •loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase;. • collateral for loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' future borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and. • the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us.. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. <U+25E6> Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.  Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes.  Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased.  We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, losses may still occur.. <U+25E6> The Company's cost of operations is high relative to its assets.  The Company's failure to maintain or reduce its operating expenses could hurt its profits.  Our noninterest expenses totaled $39.8 million and $40.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  We continue to analyze our expenses and achieve efficiencies where available.  Although we strive to generate increases in both net interest income and noninterest income and have had some improvement, our efficiency ratio remains high as a result of operating expenses.  Our efficiency ratio was 73.60% and 68.53% for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. <U+25E6> The Bank's level of nonperforming loans and classified assets may require the Bank to increase the provision for loan losses or to charge-off additional losses in the future.  Further, the allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in the Bank's loan portfolio.  For 2017, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $661,000 compared to a provision for loan losses of $2.2 million in 2016.  We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $147,000 in 2017 compared to net loan charge-offs of $233,000 in 2016.  Our nonperforming assets and troubled debt restructurings increased to $17.1 million, or 1.08% of total assets, at December 31, 2017 from $16.9 million, or 1.09% of total assets, at December 31, 2016.  Additionally, at December 31, 2017, loans classified as either special mention, substandard, doubtful or. 35. Table of Contents. loss totaled $37.8 million, representing 3.03% of total loans, including nonperforming loans of $6.4 million, representing 0.51% of total loans.  If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral is insufficient to pay the remaining loan balance or if the economy and/or the real estate market weakens, more of our classified loans may become nonperforming and we could experience loan losses or be required to add further reserves to our allowance for loan losses, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.  We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level representing management's best estimate of known losses in the portfolio based upon management's evaluation of the portfolio's collectibility as of the corresponding balance sheet date.  However, our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses totaled $12.3 million, which represented 0.99% of total loans and 192.60% of nonperforming loans.  Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to income, or to charge-off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses.  Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by our regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. <U+25E6> Changes or inaccuracies in management's estimates and assumptions regarding the allowance for loan losses may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of and trends in our nonperforming, delinquent and classified loans.  In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers.  Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid.  Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers' abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges, the effect of the current and future economic conditions on collateral values and other factors.  Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates.. <U+25E6> Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce the Company's profitability and affect the value of its assets.  We are subject to interest rate risk.  Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings.  Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract.  Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates.  As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up.  This contraction could be more severe following a prolonged period of lower interest rates, as a larger proportion of our fixed-rate residential loan portfolio and fixed-rate residential related mortgage-backed securities will have been originated at those lower rates and borrowers may be more reluctant to refinance or unable to sell their homes in a higher interest rate environment.  Changes in the slope of the \"yield curve,\" or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin.  Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates.  Because our. 36. Table of Contents. liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.. Changes in interest rates also can affect: (1) the ability to originate loans; (2) the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; (3) the ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and (4) the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including government monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control.  Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities, our profitability could be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates.. <U+25E6> The Bank's commercial lending exposes us to greater lending risks.  At December 31, 2017, $765.5 million, or 61.39%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial business loans.  We intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending.  Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss and require a commensurately higher loan loss allowance than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers.  Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans.  Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us.  Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan.  Further, unlike one- to four-family real estate loans or multi-family and commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value.. <U+25E6> The Bank's residential mortgage loans and home equity loans exposes it to lending risks.  At December 31, 2017, $397.3 million, or 31.86%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family residential mortgage loans and $53.5 million, or 4.29%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit.  One- to four-family residential mortgage lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict.  Since the recession and through the period of slow recovery thereafter, the housing market has slowed and real estate values in our market areas have declined.  This could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.. <U+25E6> We may be adversely affected by recent changes in U.S. tax laws.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, is likely to have both positive and negative effects on our financial performance.  For example, the new legislation will result in a reduction in our federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, which will have a favorable impact on our earnings and capital generation abilities.  However, the new legislation also enacted limitations on certain deductions that will have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the real estate market.  These limitations include:  (1) a lower limit on the deductibility of mortgage interest on one- to four-family residential mortgage loans; (2) the elimination of interest deductions for home equity loans; (3) a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense; and (4) a limitation on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes.. The recent changes in the tax laws may have an adverse effect on the market for, and the valuation of, residential properties, and on the demand for such loans in the future, and could make it harder for borrowers to make their loan payments.  In addition, these recent changes may also have a. 37. Table of Contents. disproportionate effect on taxpayers in states with high residential home prices and high state and local taxes, like Connecticut.  If home ownership becomes less attractive, demand for mortgage loans could decrease.  The value of the properties securing loans in our loan portfolio may be adversely impacted because of the changing economics of home ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+25E6> The Company's investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns, material losses or other-than-temporary impairment losses.  The value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to a deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held in our portfolio, or due to a deterioration in the financial condition of an issuer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments.  Such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses.. Our investment portfolio is also subject to increased risk as the valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk the estimated fair value (i.e. the carrying amount) of the portion of the investment portfolio that is carried at fair value as reflected in our financial statements is not reflective of prices at which actual transactions would occur.. Because of the risks set forth above, the value of our investment portfolio could decrease, we could experience reduced net investment income, and we could recognize investment losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.. Additionally, we review our securities portfolio at each quarter-end to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value.  When the fair value of any of our securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the decline is other-than-temporary.  We are required to write-down the value of that security through a charge to earnings if we conclude that the decline is other-than-temporary.  In the case of debt securities, we are required to charge to earnings any decreases in value that are credit-related.  As of December 31, 2017, the amortized cost and the fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio totaled $155.9 million and $154.1 million, respectively.  Changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines in future periods may result in a charge to earnings to write-down these securities.  Any charges for other-than-temporary impairment would not impact cash flows, tangible capital or liquidity.  For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recognized no other-than-temporary impairment losses on certain debt securities related to credit-related factors.. <U+25E6> Regulatory reform may have a material impact on the Company's operations.  In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was passed, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes.  The key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are:. •changes to regulatory capital requirements;. • creation of new government regulatory agencies (such as the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which oversees systemic risk, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which develops and enforces rules for bank and non-bank providers of consumer financial products);. •potential limitations on federal preemption;. •changes to deposit insurance assessments;. •regulation of debit interchange fees we earn;. • changes in retail banking regulations, including potential limitations on certain fees we may charge; and. •changes in regulation of consumer mortgage loan origination and risk retention.. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restricts the ability of banks to engage in certain proprietary trading or to sponsor or invest in private equity or hedge funds.  The Dodd-Frank Act also contains provisions designed. 38. Table of Contents. to limit the ability of insured depository institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates to conduct certain swaps and derivatives activities and to take certain principal positions in financial instruments.. Some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective immediately upon its enactment.  Many provisions, however, will require regulations to be promulgated by various federal agencies to be implemented, some but not all of which have been proposed or finalized by the applicable federal agencies.  The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may have unintended effects, which will not be clear until after implementation.  Certain changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements.  Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, we expect that, at a minimum, our operating and compliance costs will increase, and our interest expense could increase, as a result of these new rules and regulations.. <U+25E6> Strong competition within the Bank's market area could hurt its profits and slow growth.  We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits.  This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates.  Competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income.  As of June 30, 2017, we held approximately 1.86% of the deposits in Hartford, Middlesex, New London, Tolland and Windham counties in Connecticut, which represented the 11th largest market share of deposits out of the 37 financial institutions in these counties.  As of the same date, we held approximately 4.92% of the deposits in Newport and Washington counties in Rhode Island, which represented the 5th largest market share of deposits out of the 11 financial institutions in these counties.  Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide.  We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry.  Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area.. <U+25E6> We are subject to certain capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, require us to raise additional capital, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.  A final capital rule that became effective for financial institutions on January 1, 2015, included minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, and refined the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The final rule also established a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%.  The new capital conservation buffer requirement is being phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and increases each year until fully implemented in January 2019.  A financial institution, such as the Bank, is subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount.  These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.  Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets.. 39. Table of Contents. <U+25E6> The Company is subject to liquidity risks.  Market conditions could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity available to us, which would affect our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences.  Deposits and FHLB advances are our primary sources of funding.  A significant decrease in our deposits, an inability to renew FHLB advances, an inability to obtain alternative funding to deposits or FHLB advances, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition.. <U+25E6> If the goodwill or other intangible assets recorded in connection with the Company's acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Company's profitability.  Applicable accounting standards require the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations.  Under this method, if the purchase price of an acquired entity exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer's balance sheet as goodwill.  At December 31, 2017, we had $11.7 million of goodwill and $5.2 million of core deposit intangible on our balance sheet.  The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances warrant such evaluation.  Our annual review of our goodwill occurs in November.  Write-downs of the amount of impairment, if necessary, are to be charged to earnings in the period in which the impairment occurs.  No impairment related to goodwill or core deposit intangibles was recorded for the years ended December 31, 2017 or 2016.  Future evaluations may result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. <U+25E6> We face a risk of liability and enforcement action with noncompliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.  The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the \"PATRIOT Act\") and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. Federal and state bank regulators also focus on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and to obtain regulatory approvals for potential acquisitions, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.. <U+25E6> We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have a material adverse effect on us.  Our business is dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If significant, sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us.. 40. Table of Contents. In addition, we provide our customers with the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet and over the telephone. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other remote channels is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, regulatory scrutiny, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could materially and adversely affect us.. <U+25E6> We are subject to a variety of operational risks, legal and compliance risks, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, and unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.  Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities.  Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action.. If personal, non-public, confidential or proprietary information of customers in our possession were to be misappropriated, mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss.  Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, erroneously providing such information to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or the interception or inappropriate acquisition of such information by third parties.. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified.  Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.  We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability.  We are further exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are) and to the risk that our (or our vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate.  The occurrence of any of these risks could result in our diminished ability to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to clients, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.. 41. Table of Contents. <U+25E6> Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.  In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees.  The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.  We, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, may be subject to ongoing, repeated attempts to penetrate key systems by hackers.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such unauthorized access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information and regulatory penalties; disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers; damage our reputation; and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, all of which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position.  We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses.. <U+25E6> Our failure to keep pace with technological change may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and results of operations.  Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations."
