[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. The following are certain risk factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. OUR INDEBTEDNESS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CASH FLOW.. At December 31, 2017, we had $2,564.3 million of total consolidated indebtedness. We incurred much of this indebtedness as a result of financing acquisitions and refinancing our previously outstanding debt. In addition, at December 31, 2017, after taking into account outstanding letters of credit of $18.2 million, we had up to $1.17 billion and Cdn $15.0 million of revolving loans that we may borrow under our Credit Agreement. We also have available to us under our Credit Agreement an uncommitted multicurrency incremental loan facility in an amount of up to an additional $1.25 billion (which amount may be increased as provided under our Credit Agreement), and we may incur additional indebtedness as permitted by our Credit Agreement and our other instruments governing our indebtedness.. A significant portion of our cash flow must be used to service our indebtedness and is therefore not available to be used in our business. In 2017, we repaid $24.9 million in principal, excluding indebtedness refinanced, and paid $97.6 million in interest on our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. In addition, a significant portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates, and therefore a substantial increase in interest rates could adversely impact our results of operations. Based on the average outstanding amount of our variable rate indebtedness in 2017, a one percentage point change in the interest rates for our variable rate indebtedness would have impacted our 2017 interest expense by an aggregate amount of approximately $11.6 million, after taking into account the average outstanding notional amount of our interest rate swap agreements during 2017.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities; and. • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds.. DESPITE OUR CURRENT LEVELS OF INDEBTEDNESS, WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL DEBT IN THE FUTURE, WHICH COULD INCREASE THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR LEVERAGE.. We are continually evaluating and pursuing acquisition opportunities in the consumer goods packaging market and may incur additional indebtedness, including indebtedness under our Credit Agreement, to finance any such acquisitions and to fund any resulting increased operating needs. In 2017, for example, we funded the purchase price for our acquisition of SDS through term loan and revolving loan borrowings under our Credit Agreement in the aggregate amount of $1,023.8 million. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could increase. We will have to effect any new financing in compliance with the agreements governing our then existing indebtedness. The indentures governing the 5% Notes, the 5½% Notes and the 4¾% Notes and the 3¼% Notes do not prohibit us from incurring additional indebtedness.. 15. THE TERMS OF OUR DEBT INSTRUMENTS RESTRICT THE MANNER IN WHICH WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS AND MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO IMPLEMENT ELEMENTS OF OUR GROWTH STRATEGY.. Our Credit Agreement contains numerous covenants, including financial and operating covenants, some of which are quite restrictive. These covenants affect, and in many respects limit, among other things, our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • consolidate, merge or sell assets;. • make certain advances, investments and loans;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • engage in any business other than the packaging business and certain related businesses.. The indentures governing the 5% Notes, the 5½% Notes and the 4¾% Notes and the 3¼% Notes contain certain covenants that also restrict our ability to create liens, issue guarantees, engage in sale and leaseback transactions and consolidate, merge or sell assets. These covenants could restrict us in the pursuit of our growth strategy.. GLOBAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, DISRUPTIONS IN THE CREDIT MARKETS AND THE INSTABILITY OF THE EURO COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. In the past, the global financial markets have experienced substantial disruption, including, among other things, volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Additionally, the global economy experienced a recession, and economic uncertainty has generally continued in European markets and in China. If such economic conditions, disruption of global financial markets and tightening of credit in the financial markets were to occur again, then, among other risks we face, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to obtain additional financing in the future, including on terms satisfactory to us, could be adversely affected.. Economic conditions and disruptions in the credit markets could also harm the liquidity or financial position of our customers or suppliers, which could in turn cause such parties to fail to meet their contractual or other obligations to us or reduce our customers' purchases from us, any of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, under such circumstances, the creditworthiness of the counterparties to our interest rate and commodity pricing transactions could deteriorate, thereby increasing the risk that such counterparties fail to meet their contractual obligations to us.. There has been concern regarding the overall stability of the Euro and the future of the Euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. Potential developments and market perceptions related to the Euro could adversely affect the value of our Euro-denominated assets, reduce the amount of our translated amounts of U.S. dollar revenue and income from operations, negatively impact our indebtedness in any such Eurozone country (including our ability to refinance such indebtedness) and otherwise negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, in June 2016, the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union (commonly referred to as Brexit).  Brexit could potentially disrupt and create uncertainty surrounding our business related to the United Kingdom, including our relationships with existing and future customers, suppliers and employees. We cannot predict the long-term economic, financial, trade and legal implications that the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union would have and how such withdrawal would affect our business globally and in the region. In addition, Brexit may lead other European Union member countries to consider referendums regarding their European Union membership.. WE FACE COMPETITION FROM MANY COMPANIES AND WE MAY LOSE SALES OR EXPERIENCE LOWER MARGINS ON SALES AS A RESULT OF SUCH COMPETITION.. The manufacture and sale of metal and plastic containers and closures is highly competitive. We compete with other manufacturers of metal and plastic containers and closures and manufacturers of alternative packaging products, as well as packaged goods companies who manufacture containers and closures for their own use and for sale to others. We compete primarily on the basis of price, quality and service. To the extent that any of our competitors is able to offer better prices, quality and/or services, we could lose customers and our sales and margins may decline.. 16. In 2017, approximately 90 percent of our metal container sales and a majority of our closures and plastic container sales were pursuant to multi-year supply arrangements. Although no assurances can be given, we have been successful historically in continuing these multi-year customer supply arrangements. Additionally, in general, many of these arrangements provide that during the term the customer may receive competitive proposals for all or up to a portion of the products we furnish to the customer. We have the right to retain the business subject to the terms and conditions of the competitive proposal. If we match a competitive proposal, it may result in reduced sales prices for the products that are the subject of the proposal. If we choose not to match a competitive proposal, we may lose the sales that were the subject of the proposal.. In addition, the loss of any major customer, a significant reduction in the purchasing levels of any major customer or a significant adverse change in the terms of our supply agreement with any major customer could adversely affect our results of operations.. DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS COULD BE AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO FOOD AND BEVERAGES AND CHANGES IN CONSUMER PREFERENCES.. We manufacture and sell metal and plastic rigid packaging for consumer goods products. Many of our products are used to package food and beverages, and therefore they come into direct contact with these products. Accordingly, such products must comply with various laws and regulations for food and beverages applicable to our customers. Changes in such laws and regulations could negatively impact our customers' demand for our products as they comply with such changes and/or require us to make changes to our products. Such changes to our products could include modifications relating to the inclusion of bisphenol A in the coatings and compounds that we use, possibly resulting in the incurrence by us of additional costs. Additionally, because our products are used to package consumer goods, we are subject to a variety of risks that could influence consumer behavior and negatively impact demand for our products, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions.. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO OBTAIN SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES OF RAW MATERIALS OR MAINTAIN OUR ABILITY TO PASS RAW MATERIAL PRICE INCREASES THROUGH TO OUR CUSTOMERS.. We purchase steel, aluminum, plastic resins and other raw materials from various suppliers. Sufficient quantities of these raw materials may not be available in the future, whether due to reductions in capacity because of, among other things, significant consolidation of suppliers, increased demand in excess of available supply, unforeseen events such as significant hurricanes or other reasons. In addition, such materials are subject to price fluctuations due to a number of factors, including increases in demand for the same raw materials, the availability of other substitute materials and general economic conditions that are beyond our control.. Over the last few years, there has been significant consolidation of suppliers of steel. In addition, tariffs and court cases in the United States have negatively impacted the ability and desire of certain foreign steel suppliers to competitively supply steel in the United States. Additionally, new proposed tariffs and potential limits on steel supply into the United States from certain foreign countries could further negatively impact the ability and desire of certain foreign steel suppliers to competitively supply steel in the United States. Our metal container and metal closures supply agreements with our customers provide for the pass through of changes in our metal costs. For our customers without long-term agreements, we also generally increase prices to pass through increases in our metal costs.. Our resin requirements are primarily acquired through multi-year arrangements for specific quantities of resins with several major suppliers of resins. The prices that we pay for resins are not fixed and are subject to market pricing, which has fluctuated significantly in the past few years. Our plastic container, plastic closures and dispensing systems supply agreements with our customers provide for the pass through of changes in resin prices, subject in many cases to a lag in the timing of such pass through. For customers without long-term agreements, we also generally pass through changes in resin prices.. Although no assurances can be given, we expect to be able to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials to timely meet all of our customers' requirements in 2018. Additionally, although no assurances can be given, we generally have been able to pass raw material price increases through to our customers. The loss of our ability to pass those price increases through to our customers or the inability of our suppliers to meet our raw material requirements, however, could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 17. A SUBSTANTIALLY LOWER THAN NORMAL CROP YIELD MAY REDUCE DEMAND FOR OUR METAL CONTAINERS AND CLOSURES FOR FOOD PRODUCTS.. Our metal container business' sales and income from operations are dependent, in part, upon the vegetable and fruit harvests in the midwest and western regions of the United States and, to a lesser extent, in a variety of national growing regions in Europe. Our closures business is also dependent, in part, upon the vegetable and fruit harvests. The size and quality of these harvests varies from year to year, depending in large part upon the weather conditions in applicable regions, and our results of operations could be impacted accordingly. Our sales, income from operations and net income could be materially adversely affected in a year in which crop yields are substantially lower than normal.. THE SEASONALITY OF THE FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PACKING INDUSTRY CAUSES US TO INCUR SHORT-TERM DEBT.. We sell metal containers and closures used to package fruits and vegetables, which is a seasonal process. As a result, we have historically generated a disproportionate amount of our annual income from operations in our third quarter. Additionally, as is common in the packaging industry, we must access working capital to build inventory ahead of the fruit and vegetable packing process. We also provide extended payment terms to some of our customers due to the seasonality of the fruit and vegetable packing process and, accordingly, carry accounts receivable for some customers beyond the end of the packing season. Due to our seasonal requirements, we may incur short-term indebtedness to finance our working capital requirements.. THE COST OF PRODUCING OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY INCREASES TO THE PRICE OF ENERGY.. The cost of producing our products is sensitive to our energy costs, such as natural gas and electricity. We have, from time to time, entered into contracts to hedge a portion of our natural gas costs. Energy prices, in particular oil and natural gas prices, have been volatile in recent years, with a corresponding effect on our production costs.. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PURSUE OUR GROWTH STRATEGY BY ACQUISITION.. Historically, we have grown predominantly through acquisitions. Our future growth will depend in large part on additional acquisitions of consumer goods packaging businesses. We may not be able to locate or acquire other suitable acquisition candidates consistent with our strategy, and we may not be able to fund future acquisitions because of limitations under our indebtedness or otherwise, including due to the limited availability of funds if the financial markets are impaired.. FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAY CREATE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND DIVERT OUR MANAGEMENT'S ATTENTION.. In pursuing our strategy of growth through acquisitions, we will face risks commonly encountered with an acquisition strategy. These risks include:. • failing to identify material problems and liabilities in our due diligence review of acquisition targets;. • failing to obtain sufficient indemnification rights to fully offset possible liabilities associated with acquired businesses;. • failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses;. • difficulties in identifying or retaining employees for the acquired businesses;. • disrupting our ongoing business;. • diluting our limited management resources;. • operating in new geographic regions; and. • impairing relationships with employees and customers of the acquired business as a result of changes in ownership and management.. Through our experience integrating our acquisitions, we have learned that, depending upon the size of the acquisition, it can take us up to two to three years to completely integrate an acquired business into our operations and systems and realize the full benefit of the integration. During the early part of this integration period, the operating results of an acquired business may decrease from results attained prior to the acquisition due to costs, delays or other challenges that arise when integrating the acquired business. In addition, we may not be able to. 18. achieve potential synergies or maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each business had achieved or might achieve separately. Moreover, indebtedness incurred to fund acquisitions could adversely affect our liquidity and financial stability.. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ACHIEVE, OR MAY BE DELAYED IN ACHIEVING, ADEQUATE RETURNS FROM OUR EFFORTS TO OPTIMIZE OUR OPERATIONS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.. We continually strive to improve our operating performance and further enhance our franchise positions in our businesses through the investment of capital for productivity improvements, manufacturing efficiencies, manufacturing cost reductions and the rationalization of our manufacturing facilities footprints.  Our operations include complex manufacturing systems as well as intricate scheduling and numerous geographic and logistical complexities associated with our facilities and our customers' facilities.  Accordingly, our efforts to achieve productivity improvements, manufacturing efficiencies and manufacturing cost reductions and to rationalize our manufacturing facilities footprints are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could impact our ability to achieve adequate returns from our efforts as planned.  These risks and uncertainties include, among others, completing any such efforts on time and as planned and retaining customers impacted thereby.. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RETAIN KEY MANAGEMENT, WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, on our experienced management team. Losing the services of key members of our current management team could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet our objectives.. PROLONGED WORK STOPPAGES AT OUR FACILITIES WITH UNIONIZED LABOR COULD JEOPARDIZE OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 9,300 hourly employees on a full-time basis. Approximately 33 percent of our hourly plant employees in the United States and Canada as of that date were represented by a variety of unions, and most of our hourly employees in Europe, Asia, South America and Central America were represented by a variety of unions or other labor organizations. Our labor contracts expire at various times between 2018 and 2020. We cannot assure you that, upon expiration of existing collective bargaining agreements, new agreements will be reached without union action or that any such new agreements will be on terms no less favorable to us than current agreements. Disputes with the unions representing our employees could result in strikes or other labor protests that could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management from operating our business. If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it could be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of people with the necessary skills to replace those employees. Prolonged work stoppages at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COSTS AND LIABILITIES RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL AND HEALTH AND SAFETY LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND RISKS RELATED TO LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.. We continually review our compliance with environmental and other laws, such as the Occupational Safety and Health Act and other laws regulating noise exposure levels and other safety and health concerns in the production areas of our plants in the United States and environmental protection, health and safety laws and regulations abroad. We may incur liabilities for noncompliance, or substantial expenditures to achieve compliance, with environmental and other laws or changes thereto in the future or as a result of the application of additional laws and regulations to our business, including those limiting greenhouse gas emissions and those requiring compliance with the European Commission's registration, evaluation and authorization of chemicals (REACH) procedures. In addition, stricter regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, and we may become obligated in the future to incur costs associated with the investigation and/or remediation of contamination at our facilities or other locations. Additionally, many of our products come into contact with the food and beverages that they package, and therefore we may be subject to risks and liabilities related to health and safety matters in connection with our products. Changes in or additional health and safety laws and regulations in connection with our products may also impose new requirements and costs on us. Such requirements, liabilities and costs could have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition or competitive position.. We are involved in various legal proceedings, contract disputes and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. Additionally, a competition authority in Germany commenced an antitrust investigation in 2015 involving the industry association for metal packaging in Germany and its members, including our metal container and closures subsidiaries in Germany, which is ongoing. Although we are not able to predict the outcome of such. 19. proceedings, investigations, disputes and claims, any payments in respect thereof, including pursuant to any settlements, will reduce our available cash flows and could adversely impact our results of operations.. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS RISKS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.. Our international operations generated approximately $979.3 million, or approximately 24 percent, of our consolidated net sales in 2017. As of February 1, 2018, we have a total of 44 manufacturing facilities in a total of 20 countries outside of the United States, including Canada, Mexico and countries located in Europe, Asia and South America, serving customers in approximately 90 countries worldwide. Our business strategy may include continued expansion of international activities. Accordingly, the risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including Canada, Mexico and countries located in Europe, Asia and South America, may have a negative impact on our liquidity and net income. For example, the current economic uncertainty in Europe and China and the geopolitical disruptions in Russia and the Middle East and related adverse economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we shut down our closures manufacturing facility in Venezuela in the fourth quarter of 2014 because our operations in Venezuela were unable to import raw materials on a regular basis due to the ongoing unstable political environment and an increasingly restrictive monetary policy, and in 2016 we ceased operations at our metal container manufacturing facility in the Ukraine because of the geopolitical environment.. Risks associated with operating in foreign countries include, but are not limited to:. • political, social and economic instability;. • inconsistent product regulation or policy changes by foreign agencies or governments;. • war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism;. • compliance with and changes in applicable foreign laws;. • loss or non-renewal of treaties or similar agreements with foreign tax authorities;. • difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights;. • high social benefits for labor;. • national and regional labor strikes;. • imposition of limitations on conversions of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or payment of dividends and other payments by non-U.S. subsidiaries;. • foreign exchange rate risks;. • difficulties in expatriating cash generated or held by non-U.S. subsidiaries;. • uncertainties arising from local business practices and cultural considerations;. • changes in tax laws, or the interpretation thereof, affecting foreign tax credits or tax deductions relating to our non-U.S. earnings or operations;. • hyperinflation, currency devaluation or defaults in certain foreign countries;. • duties, taxes or government royalties, including the imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by non-U.S. subsidiaries;. • customs, import/export and other trade compliance regulations;. • non-tariff barriers and higher duty rates;. • difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable and potentially longer payment cycles;. • application of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws;. • increased costs in maintaining international manufacturing and marketing efforts; and. • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation.. WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE EFFECTS OF FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES.. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. As a result of our international operations, a portion of our consolidated net sales, and some of our costs, assets and liabilities, are denominated in currencies other than the. 20. U.S. dollar. As a result, we must translate local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period for the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Consequently, changes in exchange rates may unpredictably and adversely affect our consolidated operating results. For example, during times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international revenue and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Conversely, a weakening U.S. dollar will effectively increase the dollar-equivalent of our expenses denominated in foreign currencies. Although we may use currency exchange rate protection agreements from time to time to reduce our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations in some cases, these hedges may not eliminate or reduce the effect of currency fluctuations.. IF THE INVESTMENTS IN OUR PENSION BENEFIT PLANS DO NOT PERFORM AS EXPECTED, WE MAY HAVE TO CONTRIBUTE ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS TO THESE PLANS, WHICH WOULD OTHERWISE BE AVAILABLE TO COVER OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES.. We maintain noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans covering a substantial number of our employees, which we fund based on certain actuarial assumptions. The plans' assets consist primarily of common stocks and fixed income securities. If the investments of the plans do not perform at expected levels, then we will have to contribute additional funds to ensure that the plans will be able to pay out benefits as scheduled. Such an increase in funding could result in a decrease in our available cash flow.. WE PARTICIPATE IN MULTIEMPLOYER PENSION PLANS UNDER WHICH, IN THE EVENT OF CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, WE COULD INCUR ADDITIONAL LIABILITIES WHICH MAY BE MATERIAL AND MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS,. We participate in four multiemployer pension plans which provide defined benefits to certain of our union employees.  Because of the nature of multiemployer pension plans, there are risks associated with participating in such plans that differ from single-employer pension plans.  Amounts contributed by an employer to a multiemployer pension plan are not segregated into a separate account and are not restricted to provide benefits only to employees of that contributing employer.  In the event that another participating employer to a multiemployer pension plan in which we participate no longer contributes to such plan, the unfunded obligations of such plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers, including us.  In such event, our required contributions to such plan could increase, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.  In the event that we withdraw from participation in a multiemployer pension plan in which we participate or otherwise cease to make contributions to such a plan or in the event of the termination of such a plan, we potentially could be required under applicable law to make additional contributions to such plan in respect of the unfunded accrued benefits of such plan, which unfunded accrued benefits could be significant.  Such additional contributions could be material and could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.  As further discussed in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included elsewhere in this Annual Report, two of the multiemployer pension plans in which we participate have a funded status of less than 65 percent.. IF WE WERE REQUIRED TO WRITE-DOWN ALL OR PART OF OUR GOODWILL OR TRADE NAMES, OUR NET INCOME AND NET WORTH COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED.. As a result of our acquisitions, we have $1.2 billion of goodwill and $32.1 million of indefinite-lived trade names recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017. We are required to periodically determine if our goodwill and trade names have become impaired, in which case we would write-down the impaired portion. If we were required to write-down all or part of our goodwill or trade names, our net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected.. INCREASED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SECURITY THREATS AND MORE SOPHISTICATED AND TARGETED COMPUTER CRIME COULD POSE A RISK TO OUR SYSTEMS, NETWORKS, PRODUCTS, SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES.. Increased global security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and. 21. operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.. OUR PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS HAVE SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER US AND THEIR EXERCISE OF THAT INFLUENCE COULD BE ADVERSE TO YOUR INTERESTS.. As of December 31, 2017, Messrs. Silver and Horrigan beneficially owned an aggregate of 33,175,668 shares of our common stock, or approximately 30 percent of our outstanding common stock, which excludes certain shares of our common stock owned by affiliates and related family transferees of Messrs. Silver and Horrigan that are not deemed to be beneficially owned by Messrs. Silver or Horrigan. Accordingly, if they act together, they will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote, including the election of directors. In addition, we and Messrs. Silver and Horrigan have entered into an amended and restated principal stockholders agreement, or the Stockholders Agreement, that provides for certain director nomination rights. Under the Stockholders Agreement, the Group (as defined in the Stockholders Agreement and generally including Messrs. Silver and Horrigan and their affiliates and related family transferees and estates) has the right to nominate for election all of our directors until the Group holds less than one-half of the number of shares of our common stock held by it in the aggregate on February 14, 1997. At least one of the Group's nominees must be either Mr. Silver or Mr. Horrigan during the three-year period covering the staggered terms of our three classes of directors. On February 14, 1997, the Group held 57,224,720 shares of our common stock in the aggregate (as adjusted for our two-for-one stock splits in 2005, 2010 and 2017). Additionally, the Group has the right to nominate for election either Mr. Silver or Mr. Horrigan as a member of our Board of Directors when the Group no longer holds at least one-half of the number of shares of our common stock held by it in the aggregate on February 14, 1997 but beneficially owns at least 5 percent of our common stock. The Stockholders Agreement continues until the death or disability of both of Messrs. Silver and Horrigan. The provisions of the Stockholders Agreement could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of Silgan Holdings Inc. and preventing our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock in any proposed acquisition of Silgan Holdings Inc.. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND OUR AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS COULD HAVE THE EFFECT OF DISCOURAGING, DELAYING OR PREVENTING A MERGER OR ACQUISITION. ANY OF THESE EFFECTS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions involving a change of control of Silgan Holdings Inc., including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.. In particular, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that:. • the Board of Directors is authorized to issue one or more classes of preferred stock having such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined by the Board;. • the Board of Directors is divided into three classes, and each year approximately one-third of the directors are elected for a term of three years;. • the Board of Directors is fixed at seven members; and. • action taken by the holders of common stock must be taken at a meeting and may not be taken by consent in writing.. Additionally, our amended and restated by-laws provide that a special meeting of the stockholders may only be called by either of our Co-Chairmen of the Board on their own initiative or at the request of a majority of the Board of Directors, and may not be called by the holders of common stock.. UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN CHANGE OF CONTROL EVENTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SATISFY ALL OF OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR CREDIT AGREEMENT AND INDENTURES.. Under our Credit Agreement, the occurrence of a change of control (as defined in our Credit Agreement) constitutes an event of default, permitting, among other things, the acceleration of amounts owed thereunder. Additionally, upon the occurrence of a change of control as defined in the indentures governing the 5% Notes and the 5½% Notes, we must make an offer to repurchase the 5% Notes and the 5½% Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the date of purchase. In addition, upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the indenture governing the 4¾% Notes and the. 22. 3¼% Notes, we must make an offer to repurchase the 4¾% Notes and the 3¼% Notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest to the date of repurchase. We may not have sufficient funds or be able to obtain sufficient financing to meet such obligations under our Credit Agreement and such indentures. In addition, even if we were able to finance such obligations, such financing may be on terms that are unfavorable to us or less favorable to us than the terms of our existing indebtedness."
