[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors are important to understanding the contents of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and of other reports. Our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones relevant to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. Weakening in general economic conditions, especially as they may affect home sales, unemployment or consumer confidence or spending levels, may adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. A substantial portion of our results of operations is dependent upon spending by consumers. Deterioration in general economic conditions and consumer confidence, particularly in California, Texas and Florida, which collectively represented approximately one - third of our revenue in 2014 in our Terminix and American Home Shield segments, could affect the demand for our services. Consumer spending and confidence tend to decline during times of declining economic conditions. A worsening of macroeconomic indicators, including weak home sales, higher home foreclosures, declining consumer confidence or rising unemployment rates, could adversely affect consumer spending levels, reduce the demand for our services and adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. These factors could also negatively impact the timing or the ultimate collection of accounts receivable, which would adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not successfully implement our business strategies, including achieving our growth objectives.. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part within the expected time frames, the anticipated benefits of our various growth or other initiatives. Our various business strategies and initiatives, including growth of our customer base, introduction of new service offerings, geographic expansion, growth of our commercial business and enhancement of profitability, are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control.. In addition, we may incur certain costs to achieve efficiency improvements and growth in our business and we may not meet anticipated implementation timetables or stay within budgeted costs. As these efficiency improvement and growth initiatives are undertaken, we may not fully achieve our expected cost savings and efficiency improvements or growth rates, or these initiatives could adversely impact our customer retention or our operations. Also, our business strategies may change from time to time in light of our ability to implement our new business initiatives, competitive pressures, economic uncertainties or developments, or other factors.. 14. Table of Contents. Adverse credit and financial market events and conditions could, among other things, impede access to or increase the cost of financing or cause our commercial and governmental customers to incur liquidity issues that could lead to some of our services not being purchased or being cancelled, or result in reduced revenue and lower Adjusted EBITDA, any of which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Disruptions in credit or financial markets could, among other things, lead to impairment charges, make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase our cost of obtaining, financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our indebtedness, cause our lenders to depart from prior credit industry practice and not give technical or other waivers under our Credit Facilities to the extent we may seek them in the future, thereby causing SvM to be in default under one or more of our Credit Facilities. These disruptions also could cause our commercial customers to encounter liquidity issues that could lead to some of our services being cancelled or reduced, or that could result in an increase in the time it takes our customers to pay us, or that could lead to a decrease in pricing for our services and products, any of which could adversely affect our accounts receivable, among other things, and, in turn, increase our working capital needs. Volatile swings in the commercial real estate segment could also impact the demand for our services as landlords cut back on services provided to their tenants. In addition, adverse developments at federal, state and local levels associated with budget deficits resulting from economic conditions could result in federal, state and local governments decreasing their purchasing of our products or services and/or increasing taxes or other fees on businesses, including us, to generate more tax revenues, which could negatively impact spending by commercial customers and municipalities on our services.. Our market segments are highly competitive. Competition could reduce our share of the market segments served by us and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We operate in highly competitive market segments. Changes in the source and intensity of competition in the market segments served by us impact the demand for our services and may also result in additional pricing pressures. The relatively low capital cost of entry into certain of our business categories has led to strong competitive market segments, including competition from smaller regional and local owner - operated companies. Regional and local competitors operating in a limited geographic area may have lower labor, employee benefits and overhead costs. The principal methods of competition in our businesses include name recognition, quality and speed of service, customer satisfaction, reputation and pricing. We may be unable to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and the competitive pressures that we face may result in reduced market segment share, reduced pricing or adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Weather conditions and seasonality affect the demand for our services and our results of operations and cash flows.. The demand for our services and our results of operations are affected by weather conditions, including, without limitation, potential impacts, if any, from climate change, known and unknown, and by the seasonal nature of our termite and pest control services, home inspection services, home warranties and disaster restoration services. Adverse weather conditions (e.g., cooler temperatures or droughts), whether created by climate change factors or otherwise, can impede the development of the termite swarm and lead to lower demand for our termite remediation services. For example, colder weather conditions in early 2014 adversely affected our traditional termite revenue in the year ended December 31, 2014. Severe winter storms can also impact our home cleaning business if personnel cannot travel to service locations due to hazardous road conditions. In addition, extreme temperatures can lead to an increase in service requests related to household systems and appliances in our American Home Shield business, resulting in higher claim frequency and costs and lower profitability. These or other weather conditions could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Increases in raw material prices, fuel prices and other operating costs could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our financial performance is affected by the level of our operating expenses, such as fuel, chemicals, refrigerants, appliances and equipment, parts, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, health care, vehicle maintenance, self - insurance costs and other insurance premiums as well as various regulatory compliance costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary pressures. In particular, our financial performance is adversely affected by increases in these operating costs. In recent years, fuel prices have fluctuated widely, and previous increases in fuel prices increased our costs of operating vehicles and equipment. Although in the first few weeks of 2015 fuel prices have decreased significantly, there can be no assurances that rates will not return to historical levels. We cannot predict what effect global events or any future Middle East, Russia or other crisis could have on fuel prices, but it is possible that such events could lead to higher fuel prices. With respect to fuel, our Terminix fleet, which consumes approximately 11 million gallons annually, has been negatively impacted by significant increases in fuel prices in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future. Although we hedge a significant portion of our fuel costs, we do not hedge all of those costs. In 2014, we used approximately 11 million gallons of fuel. As of December 31, 2014, a 10 percent change in fuel prices would result in a change of approximately $4 million in our annual fuel cost before considering the impact of fuel swap contracts. Fuel price increases can also result in increases in the cost of chemicals and other materials used in our business. We cannot predict the extent to which we may experience future increases in costs of fuel, chemicals, refrigerants, appliances and equipment, parts, raw materials, wages and salaries, employee benefits, health care, vehicle, self - insurance costs and other insurance premiums as well as various regulatory compliance costs and other operating costs. To the extent such costs increase, we may be prevented, in whole or in part, from passing these cost increases through to our existing and prospective customers, and the rates we pay to our subcontractors and suppliers may increase, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Table of Contents. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified key executives or transition smoothly to new leadership, which could adversely impact us and our businesses and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.. The execution of our business strategy and our financial performance will continue to depend in significant part on our executive management team and other key management personnel. Any inability to attract in a timely manner other qualified key executives, retain our leadership team and recruit other important personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our franchisees and third - party distributors and vendors could take actions that could harm our business.. For the year ended December 31, 2014, $146 million of our consolidated revenue was received in the form of franchise revenues. Accordingly, our financial results are dependent in part upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. Our franchisees, third - party distributors and vendors are contractually obligated to operate their businesses in accordance with the standards set forth in our agreements with them. Each franchising brand also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees, third - party distributors and vendors are independent third parties that we do not control, and who own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their businesses. As a result, the ultimate success of any franchise operation rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments to us will be adversely affected and our brands' image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, if third - party distributors, vendors and franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required laws, standards and regulations, we could be subject to claims from regulators or legal claims for the actions or omissions of such third - party distributors, vendors and franchisees. In addition, our relationship with our franchisees, third - party distributors and vendors could become strained (including resulting in litigation) as we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the existing required standards. These strains in our relationships or claims could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time, we receive communications from our franchisees regarding complaints, disputes or questions about our practices and standards in relation to our franchised operations and certain economic terms of our franchise arrangements. If franchisees or groups representing franchisees were to bring legal proceedings against us, we would vigorously defend against the claims in any such proceeding, but our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted and the price of our common stock could decline.. Disruptions or failures in our information technology systems could create liability for us or limit our ability to effectively monitor, operate and control our operations and adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor, operate and control our operations. Changes or modifications to our information technology systems could cause disruption to our operations or cause challenges with respect to our compliance with laws, regulations or other applicable standards. As the development and implementation of our information technology systems (including our operating systems) evolve, we may elect to modify, replace or abandon certain technology initiatives, which could result in write - downs. For example, in February 2014, American Home Shield ceased efforts to deploy a new operating system that had been intended to improve customer relationship management capabilities and enhance its operations. We recorded an impairment charge of $47 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 relating to this decision.. Any disruption in, capacity limitations, instability or failure to operate as expected of, our information technology systems, could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows, including by limiting our capacity to monitor, operate and control our operations effectively. Failures of our information technology systems could also lead to violations of privacy laws, regulations, trade guidelines or practices related to our customers and associates. If our disaster recovery plans do not work as anticipated, or if the third - party vendors to which we have outsourced certain information technology, contact center or other services fail to fulfill their obligations to us, our operations may be adversely impacted, and any of these circumstances could adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Changes in the services we deliver or the products we use could impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and our future plans.. Our financial performance is affected by changes in the services and products we offer our customers. For example, Terminix recently introduced new products relating to mosquito control, crawlspace encapsulation and wildlife exclusion. There can be no assurance that our new strategies or product offerings will succeed in increasing revenue and growing profitability. An unsuccessful execution of new strategies, including the rollout or adjustment of our new services or products or sales and marketing plans, could cause us to re - evaluate or change our business strategies and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and our future plans.. 16. Table of Contents. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, associates and third parties, we could be subject to interruption of our business operations, private litigation, reputational damage and costly penalties.. We rely on, among other things, commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information of customers, associates and third parties, such as payment card and personal information. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are central to meeting standards set by the payment card industry (\"PCI\"). We continue to evaluate and modify our systems and protocols for PCI compliance purposes, and such PCI standards may change from time to time. Activities by third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other events or developments may facilitate or result in a compromise or breach of our systems. Any compromises, breaches or errors in applications related to our systems or failures to comply with standards set by the PCI could cause damage to our reputation and interruptions in our operations, including our customers' ability to pay for our services and products by credit card or their willingness to purchase our services and products and could result in a violation of applicable laws, regulations, orders, industry standards or agreements and subject us to costs, penalties and liabilities which could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business.. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license, particularly our registered brand names, ServiceMaster, Terminix, American Home Shield, ServiceMaster Restore, ServiceMaster Clean, Merry Maids, Furniture Medic and AmeriSpec. We have not sought to register or protect every one of our marks either in the United States or in every country in which they are or may be used. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and brand names, we could suffer a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or activities infringe their intellectual property rights.. Future acquisitions or other strategic transactions could impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may pursue strategic transactions in the future, which could involve acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets. Any future strategic transaction could involve integration or implementation challenges, business disruption or other risks, or change our business profile significantly. Any inability on our part to consolidate and manage growth from acquired businesses or successfully implement other strategic transactions could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any acquisition that we make may not provide us with the benefits that were anticipated when entering into such acquisition. The process of integrating an acquired business may create unforeseen difficulties and expenses, including the diversion of resources needed to integrate new businesses, technologies, products, personnel or systems; the inability to retain associates, customers and suppliers; the assumption of actual or contingent liabilities (including those relating to the environment); failure to effectively and timely adopt and adhere to our internal control processes and other policies; write - offs or impairment charges relating to goodwill and other intangible assets; unanticipated liabilities relating to acquired businesses; and potential expense associated with litigation with sellers of such businesses. Any future disposition transactions could also impact our business and may subject us to various risks, including failure to obtain appropriate value for the disposed businesses, post - closing claims being levied against us and disruption to our other businesses during the sale process or thereafter.. Laws and government regulations applicable to our businesses and lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities could increase our legal and regulatory expenses, and impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our businesses are subject to significant international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include laws relating to consumer protection, wage and hour requirements, franchising, the employment of immigrants, labor relations, permitting and licensing, building code requirements, workers' safety, the environment, insurance and home warranties, employee benefits, marketing (including, without limitation, telemarketing) and advertising, the application and use of pesticides and other chemicals. In particular, we anticipate that various international, federal, state, provincial and local governing bodies may propose additional legislation and regulation that may be detrimental to our business or may substantially increase our operating costs, including increases in the minimum wage, environmental regulations related to chemical use, climate change, equipment efficiency standards, refrigerant production and use and other environmental matters; other consumer protection laws or regulations; health care coverage; or \"do - not - knock,\" \"do - not - mail,\" \"do - not - leave\" or other marketing regulations. It is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our businesses and changes to such requirements may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if we were to fail to comply with any applicable law or regulation, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages, be involved in lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities, suffer losses to our reputation, suffer the loss of licenses or incur penalties that may affect how our business is operated, which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. Table of Contents. In April 2014, the CFPB issued a Civil Investigative Demand to American Home Shield seeking documents and information to determine whether home warranty providers or other unnamed persons have engaged or are engaging in unlawful acts and practices in connection with referral arrangements and relationships in violation of RESPA and other laws enforceable by the CFPB. American Home Shield believes that it has complied with RESPA and other laws applicable to American Home Shield's home warranty business. If the CFPB determines to bring an enforcement action, it could include demands for money penalties, changes to certain of American Home Shield's business practices and customer restitution or disgorgement.. Public perceptions that the products we use and the services we deliver are not environmentally friendly or safe may adversely impact the demand for our services.. In providing our services, we use, among other things, pesticides and other chemicals. Public perception that the products we use and the services we deliver are not environmentally friendly or safe or are harmful to humans or animals, whether justified or not, or our improper application of these chemicals, could reduce demand for our services, increase regulation or government restrictions or actions, result in fines or penalties, impair our reputation, involve us in litigation, damage our brand names and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may be required to recognize additional impairment charges.. In the first quarter of 2014, we incurred impairment charges with respect to fixed assets, and we have also incurred impairment charges in the past in connection with our disposition activities. We have significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, such as trade names. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, goodwill and intangible assets that are not amortized are subject to assessment for impairment by applying a fair - value based test annually, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant adverse changes in the business climate, including economic or financial conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant adverse changes in expected operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse actions or assessments by regulators;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated competition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss of key personnel; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta current expectation that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit or intangible asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of.. In February 2014, American Home Shield ceased efforts to deploy a new operating system that had been intended to improve customer relationship management capabilities and enhance its operations. We recorded an impairment charge of $47 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 relating to this decision.. Based upon future economic and financial market conditions, the operating performance of our reporting units and other factors, including those listed above, we may incur impairment charges in the future. It is possible that such impairment, if required, could be material. Any future impairment charges that we are required to record could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Compliance with, or violation of, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws pertaining to the use of pesticides could result in significant costs that adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. International, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters affect us in several ways. In the United States, products containing pesticides generally must be registered with EPA and similar state agencies before they can be sold or applied. The failure to obtain or the cancellation of any such registration, or the withdrawal from the market place of such pesticides, could have an adverse effect on our business, the severity of which would depend on the products involved, whether other products could be substituted and whether our competitors were similarly affected. The pesticides we use are manufactured by independent third parties and are evaluated by the EPA as part of its ongoing exposure risk assessment. The EPA may decide that a pesticide we use will be limited or will not be re - registered for use in the United States. We cannot predict the outcome or the severity of the effect of the EPA's continuing evaluations.. In addition, the use of certain pesticide products is regulated by various international, federal, state, provincial and local environmental and public health agencies. Although we strive to comply with such regulations and have processes in place designed to achieve compliance, given our dispersed locations, distributed operations and numerous associates, we may be unable to prevent violations of these or other regulations from occurring. Even if we are able to comply with all such regulations and obtain all necessary registrations and licenses, the pesticides or other products we apply or use, or the manner in which we apply or use them, could be alleged to cause injury to the environment, to people or to animals, or such products could be banned in certain circumstances. The regulations may also apply to third - party vendors who are hired to repair or remediate property and who may fail to comply with environmental laws, health and safety regulations and subject us to risk of legal exposure. The costs of compliance,. 18. Table of Contents. non - compliance, remediation, combating unfavorable public perceptions or defending products liability lawsuits could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. International, federal, state, provincial and local agencies regulate the disposal, handling and storage of waste, discharges from our facilities and the investigation and clean - up of contaminated sites. We could incur significant costs, including investigation and clean - up costs, fines, penalties and civil or criminal sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, these laws and regulations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future.. We are subject to various restrictive covenants that could adversely impact our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time, we enter into noncompetition agreements or other restrictive covenants (e.g., exclusivity, take or pay and non - solicitation), including in connection with business dispositions or strategic contracts, that restrict us from entering into lines of business or operating in certain geographic areas into which we may desire to expand our business. We also are subject to various non - solicitation and no - hire covenants that may restrict our ability to solicit potential customers or associates. If we do not comply with such restrictive covenants, or if a dispute arises regarding the scope and interpretation thereof, litigation could ensue, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Further, to the extent that such restrictive covenants prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities, our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted.. Our business process outsourcing initiatives have increased our reliance on third - party contractors and may expose our business to harm upon the termination or disruption of our third - party contractor relationships.. Our strategy to increase profitability, in part, by reducing our costs of operations includes the implementation of certain business process outsourcing initiatives. Any disruption, termination or substandard performance of these outsourced services, including possible breaches by third - party vendors of their agreements with us, could adversely affect our brands, reputation, customer relationships, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Also, to the extent a third - party outsourcing provider relationship is terminated, there is a risk that we may not be able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider in a timely manner or on terms that we consider favorable, and even if we find an alternate provider, or choose to insource such services, there are significant risks associated with any transitioning activities. In addition, to the extent we decide to terminate outsourcing services and insource such services, there is a risk that we may not have the capabilities to perform these services internally, resulting in a disruption to our business, which could adversely impact our reputation, business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We could incur costs, including personnel and equipment costs, to insource previously outsourced services like these, and these costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, when a third - party provider relationship is terminated, there is a risk of disputes or litigation and that we may not be able to enter into a similar agreement with an alternate provider in a timely manner or on terms that we consider favorable, and even if we find an alternate provider, there are significant risks associated with any transitioning activities.. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and maintain positive relations with trained workers and third - party contractors.. Our future success and financial performance depend substantially on our ability to attract, train and retain workers, attract and retain third - party contractors and ensure third - party contractor compliance with our policies and standards. Our ability to conduct our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force, including on a seasonal basis, which may be adversely impacted by a number of factors. In the event of a labor shortage, we could experience difficulty in delivering our services in a high - quality or timely manner and could be forced to increase wages in order to attract and retain associates, which would result in higher operating costs and reduced profitability. New decisions and rules by the National Labor Relations Board, including \"expedited elections\" and restrictions on appeals, could lead to increased organizing activities at our subsidiaries or franchisees. If these labor organizing activities were successful, it could further increase labor costs, decrease operating efficiency and productivity in the future, or otherwise disrupt or negatively impact our operations. In addition, potential competition from key associates who leave ServiceMaster could impact our ability to maintain our market segment share in certain geographic areas.. Risks Related to Our Substantial Indebtedness. We have substantial indebtedness and may incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and satisfy our obligations.. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $3.057 billion of total long-term consolidated indebtedness outstanding. On February 17, 2015, SvM redeemed $190 million in aggregate principal amount of its 8% 2020 Notes at a redemption price of 106.0% of the principal amount using available cash. On July 1, 2014, in connection with Holdings' initial public offering, SvM terminated the Old Credit Facilities and entered into the Credit Facilities. As of December 31, 2014, there was $136 million of letters of credit outstanding and $164 million of available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, we are able to incur additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the limitations contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. Because of our substantial indebtedness:. 19. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to engage in acquisitions without raising additional equity or obtaining additional debt financing is limited;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes and our ability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness may be impaired in the future;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta large portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings are or will be at variable rates of interest;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with proportionately less indebtedness or with comparable indebtedness on more favorable terms and, as a result, they may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to refinance indebtedness may be limited or the associated costs may increase;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions and ability to withstand competitive pressures could be limited; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be prevented from carrying out capital spending and restructurings that are necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our businesses.. Increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and could reduce our profitability.. A significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness, including indebtedness incurred under the Credit Facilities, bears interest at variable rates. As a result, increases in interest rates would increase the cost of servicing our indebtedness and could materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. As of December 31, 2014, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in an approximately $15 million change in the annual interest expense on our Term Loan Facility after considering the impact of the effective interest rate swaps. Assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn as of December 31, 2014, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in an approximately $2 million change in annual interest expense on our Revolving Credit Facility. The impact of increases in interest rates could be more significant for us than it would be for some other companies because of our substantial indebtedness.. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings, outlook or watch assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.. Our indebtedness currently has a non-investment grade rating, and any rating, outlook or watch assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, current or future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, outlook, or watch such as adverse changes to our business, so warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings, outlook or watch likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing.. The agreements and instruments governing our indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business.. The Credit Facilities and the indenture governing our 2020 Notes contain covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of SvM and its subsidiaries to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness (including guarantees of other indebtedness);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends to ServiceMaster, redeem stock, or make other restricted payments, including investments and, in the case of the Revolving Credit Facility, make acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprepay, repurchase or amend the terms of certain outstanding indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttransfer or sell assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmerge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into agreements restricting dividends or other distributions by subsidiaries to SvM.. The restrictions in the indenture governing the 2020 Notes, the Credit Facilities and the instruments governing SvM's other indebtedness may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and may make it. 20. Table of Contents. difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness, at maturity or otherwise, on terms acceptable to us, or at all.. The ability of SvM to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the Credit Facilities, the indenture governing the 2020 Notes, and the instruments governing our other indebtedness may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control including credit or capital market disruptions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default that would permit the applicable lenders or noteholders, as the case may be, to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay indebtedness, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under the Credit Facilities, could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under the Credit Facilities and may not be able to repay the amounts due under such facilities or our other outstanding indebtedness. This could have serious consequences to our financial position and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent.. Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control.. ServiceMaster and SvM are each holding companies, and as such they have no independent operations or material assets other than ownership of equity interests in their respective subsidiaries. ServiceMaster and SvM each depend on their respective subsidiaries to distribute funds to them so that they may pay obligations and expenses, including satisfying obligations with respect to indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our indebtedness depends on the financial and operating performance of our subsidiaries, and their ability to make distributions and dividends to us, which, in turn, depends on their results of operations, cash flows, cash requirements, financial position and general business conditions and any legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends to which they may be subject, many of which may be beyond our control.. There are third-party restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us. If we cannot receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to meet our obligations to fund general corporate expenses or service our debt obligations. These restrictions are related to regulatory requirements at American Home Shield and to a subsidiary borrowing arrangement at The ServiceMaster Acceptance Corporation Limited (\"SMAC\"). The payment of ordinary and extraordinary dividends by our home warranty and similar subsidiaries (through which we conduct our American Home Shield business) are subject to significant regulatory restrictions under the laws and regulations of the states in which they operate. Among other things, such laws and regulations require certain such subsidiaries to maintain minimum capital and net worth requirements and may limit the amount of ordinary and extraordinary dividends and other payments that these subsidiaries can pay to us. As of December 31, 2014, the total net assets subject to these third-party restrictions was $159 million. Similar limitations are expected to be in effect in 2015.. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our indebtedness. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our indebtedness, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. The $1,803 million of outstanding borrowings under the Term Facilities, as of December 31, 2014, after including the unamortized portion of the original issue discount paid, have a maturity date of July 1, 2021. The Revolving Credit Facility is scheduled to mature on July 1, 2019. The 8% 2020 Notes will mature on February 15, 2020, and the 7% 2020 Notes will mature on August 15, 2020. We may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, particularly because of our high levels of indebtedness. Market disruptions, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2009, as well as our significant indebtedness levels, may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to refinance our obligations as they become due. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or access additional credit, or if short-term or long-term borrowing costs dramatically increase, our ability to finance current operations and meet our short-term and long-term obligations could be adversely affected.. If our subsidiary, SvM, cannot make scheduled payments on its indebtedness, it will be in default, holders of the 2020 Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the Credit Facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Despite our indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the instruments governing our indebtedness do not prohibit us or fully prohibit our subsidiaries from doing so. The Credit Facilities permit additional borrowings beyond the committed amounts under certain circumstances. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the related risks we face would increase, and we may not be able to meet all of our debt obligations.. 21. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. ServiceMaster is a holding company with no operations of its own, and it depends on its subsidiaries for cash to fund all of its operations and expenses, including to make future dividend payments, if any.. ServiceMaster's operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to fund our operations and expenses, to pay dividends or to meet debt service obligations is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of SvM and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that ServiceMaster needs funds, and its subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. For example, there are third-party restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us. If we cannot receive sufficient distributions from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to meet our obligations to fund general corporate expenses or service our debt obligations. These restrictions are related to regulatory requirements at American Home Shield and to a subsidiary borrowing arrangement at SMAC. The payment of ordinary and extraordinary dividends by our home warranty and similar subsidiaries (through which we conduct our American Home Shield business) are subject to significant regulatory restrictions under the laws and regulations of the states in which they operate. Among other things, such laws and regulations require certain such subsidiaries to maintain minimum capital and net worth requirements and may limit the amount of ordinary and extraordinary dividends and other payments that these subsidiaries can pay to us. As of December 31, 2014, the total net assets subject to these third-party restrictions was $159 million. Such limitations are expected to be in effect in 2015.. Further, the terms of the indenture governing the 2020 Notes and the agreements governing the Credit Facilities significantly restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, make loans or otherwise transfer assets to ServiceMaster. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of the Credit Facilities and other indebtedness to incur additional indebtedness that may restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends or the making of loans by such subsidiaries to us. In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock.. We do not currently expect to declare or pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Payments of dividends, if any, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including general and economic conditions, our financial condition and operating results, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications of the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries (including SvM) to us, and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, Delaware law may impose requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock. To the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock, none of our subsidiaries will be obligated to make funds available to us for the payment of dividends.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tindustry or general market conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdomestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in our customers' preferences;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or lack of research coverage and reports by industry analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taction by institutional stockholders or other large stockholders (including the Equity Sponsors), including additional future sales of our common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to meet any guidance given by us or any change in any guidance given by us, or changes by us in our guidance practices;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us of significant impairment charges;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tspeculation in the press or investment community;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinvestor perception of us and our industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in market valuations or earnings of similar companies;. 22. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions or strategic partnerships;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twar, terrorist acts and epidemic disease;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany future sales of our common stock or other securities; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel.. The stock markets have experienced extreme volatility in recent years that has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, class action litigation has often been instituted against the affected company. Any litigation of this type brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of February 25, 2015, we had 134,476,512 outstanding shares of common stock. Of these shares, all of the 70,035,000 shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering and in the February 2015 secondary offering by certain of our stockholders, including the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds, are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), unless purchased by our \"affiliates\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 25, 2015 are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, but are eligible for resale subject to applicable volume, means of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act or pursuant to an exception from registration under Rule 701 under the Securities Act, subject to the terms of the lock-up agreements entered into by us, our executive officers and directors, and the selling stockholders in the February 2015 secondary offering, including the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds.. In July 2014, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register the shares of common stock to be issued under our equity compensation plans and, as a result, all shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of (i) stock options granted under these plans and (ii) other equity-based awards granted under the Omnibus Incentive Plan (as defined below), including approximately 800,000 shares of our common stock that have been sold in the public market through the exercise of stock options as of February 25, 2015, are freely tradable under the Securities Act, subject to the terms of the lock-up agreements, unless purchased by our affiliates. As of February 25, 2015, there were stock options outstanding to purchase a total of 4,581,117 shares of our common stock and there were 819,388 shares of our common stock subject to restricted stock units. In addition, 7,211,313 shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuances under our Omnibus Incentive Plan.. In connection with the February 2015 secondary offering, we, our executive officers and directors, and the selling stockholders in the February 2015 secondary offering, including the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds signed lock-up agreements under which, subject to certain exceptions, they agreed not to sell, transfer or dispose of or hedge, directly or indirectly, any shares of our common stock or any securities convertible into or exerciseable or exchangeable for shares of our common stock until May 5, 2015, subject to possible extension under certain circumstances.  Following the expiration of this lock-up period, 57,310,881 shares of our common stock will be eligible for future sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act.. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of our common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts that covers our common stock downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of the analysts ceases coverage of our common stock or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline.. A few significant stockholders will have significant influence over us and may not always exercise their influence in a way that benefits our public stockholders.. As of February 25, 2015, the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds own approximately 29.8% and 6.5%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In connection with Holdings' initial public offering, in June 2014, we and the Equity Sponsors entered into an amendment and restatement to our then - existing stockholders agreement, or the \"amended stockholders agreement,\" pursuant to which the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds agreed to vote in favor of one another's designees to our board of directors, among other matters. As a result, the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds will continue to exercise significant. 23. Table of Contents. influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval for the foreseeable future, including approval of significant corporate transactions, which may reduce the market price of our common stock.. Even though the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds no longer collectively beneficially own more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, they are still able to assert significant influence over our board of directors and certain corporate actions. The CD&R Funds continue to have the right to designate for nomination for election at least 20% of the total number of directors comprising the board so long as the CD&R Funds own at least 20% but less than 30% of our common stock. The StepStone Funds will continue to have the right to designate for nomination for election one director so long as the StepStone Funds own at least 5% of our common stock.. Because the CD&R Funds' and the StepStone Funds' interests may differ from your interests, actions the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds take as our significant stockholders may not be favorable to you. For example, the concentration of ownership held by the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination which another stockholder may otherwise view favorably. Other potential conflicts could arise, for example, over matters such as employee retention or recruiting, or our dividend policy.. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds and their respective affiliates and, in some circumstances, any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer, employee, member or partner of the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds and their respective affiliates, have no obligation to offer us corporate opportunities.. The policies relating to corporate opportunities and transactions with the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds set forth in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or \"amended and restated certificate of incorporation,\" address potential conflicts of interest between ServiceMaster, on the one hand, and the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds and their respective officers, directors, employees, members or partners who are directors or officers of our company, on the other hand. In accordance with those policies, the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds may pursue corporate opportunities, including acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, without offering those opportunities to us. ServiceMaster stockholders are deemed to have notice of and have consented to these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Although these provisions are designed to resolve conflicts between us and the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds and their respective affiliates fairly, conflicts may not be so resolved.. Future offerings of debt or equity securities which would rank senior to our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If, in the future, we decide to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us.. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company, including with respect to the requirements of and related rules under the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002, is expensive and time - consuming, and any delays or difficulties in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price.. Holdings' initial public offering was completed on July 1, 2014. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting and corporate governance requirements, under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or the \"NYSE,\" and the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002, that apply to issuers of listed equity, which impose certain significant compliance costs and obligations upon us. The changes necessitated by being a publicly listed company require a significant commitment of additional resources and management oversight which increase our operating costs. Other expenses associated with being a public company include increases in auditing, accounting and legal fees and expenses, investor relations expenses, increased directors' fees and director and officer liability insurance costs, registrar and transfer agent fees and listing fees, as well as other expenses. As a public company, we are required, among other things, to define and expand the roles and the duties of our board of directors and its committees and institute more comprehensive compliance and investor relations functions. Failure to comply with the Sarbanes - Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the NYSE or other regulatory authorities.. Anti - takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by - laws could discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by - laws include a number of provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by - laws collectively:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt;. 24. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide for a classified board of directors, which divides our board of directors into three classes, with members of each class serving staggered three - year terms, which prevents stockholders from electing an entirely new board of directors at an annual meeting;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit the ability of stockholders to remove directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that vacancies on our board of directors, including vacancies resulting from an enlargement of our board of directors, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring other business before an annual meeting of our stockholders; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire the approval of holders of at least 662/3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock to amend our amended and restated by - laws and certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation.. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if the provisions are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by - laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. Furthermore, the existence of the foregoing provisions, as well as the significant amount of common stock that the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds own, could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, deter, render more difficult or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock.. We do not intend to declare and pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to use our future earnings, if any, to repay debt, to fund our growth, to develop our business, for working capital needs and general corporate purposes. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. In addition, ServiceMaster's operations are conducted almost entirely through our subsidiaries. As such, to the extent that we determine in the future to pay dividends on our common stock, none of our subsidiaries will be obligated to make funds available to ServiceMaster for the payment of dividends. Further, the indenture governing the 2020 Notes and the agreements governing our Credit Facilities significantly restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us. In addition, the payment of ordinary and extraordinary dividends by our subsidiaries that are regulated as insurance, home service, or similar companies is subject to applicable state law limitations, and Delaware law may impose additional requirements that may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of our common stock.. We are no longer a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules. However, we may continue to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements during a one-year transition period.. After the completion of the February 2015 secondary offering, the CD&R Funds and the StepStone Funds no longer control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, we are no longer a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Consequently, the NYSE rules will require that we (i) have a majority of independent directors to our board of directors within one year of the date we no longer qualified as a \"controlled company\"; (ii) have at least one independent director on each of the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees on the date we no longer qualified as a \"controlled company,\" at least a majority of independent directors on each of the Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees within 90 days of such date and Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance committees composed entirely of independent directors within one year of such date and (iii) perform an annual performance evaluation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance and Compensation Committees. During this transition period, we may continue to utilize the available exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements as permitted by the NYSE rules. Accordingly, during the transition period you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a. 25. Table of Contents. fiduciary duty owed to us or our stockholders by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the \"DGCL,\" or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. By becoming a stockholder in our company, you will be deemed to have notice of and have consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation related to choice of forum. The choice of forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks related to the TruGreen Spin-Off. If the TruGreen Separation Transaction were ultimately determined to be a taxable transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then we could be subject to significant tax liability.. In connection with the TruGreen Spin-off we received an opinion of tax counsel with respect to the tax-free nature of the TruGreen Spin-off to ServiceMaster, TruGreen and ServiceMaster's stockholders under Section 355 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the ''Code.'' The opinion relied on an Internal Revenue Service, or ''IRS,'' private letter ruling as to matters covered by the ruling. The tax opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by us, which, if incorrect or inaccurate in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by tax counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion. If the TruGreen Spin-off were ultimately determined not to be tax-free, we could be liable for the U.S. federal income taxes imposed as a result of the transaction. Furthermore, events subsequent to the TruGreen Spin-off could cause us to recognize a taxable gain in connection therewith. In addition, as is customary with tax-free spin-off transactions, we and the Equity Sponsors are limited in our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions with respect to SvM.. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws and Delaware corporate law may permit a court to void the TruGreen Spin-Off, which would adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations.. In connection with the TruGreen Spin-off, we undertook several corporate restructuring transactions which, along with the contributions and distributions to be made as part of the spin-off, may be subject to challenge under federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws as well as under Delaware corporate law.. Under applicable laws, any transaction, contribution or distribution completed as part of the spin-off could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if, among other things, the transferor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return and was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the transfer.. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not any entity involved in the spin-off was insolvent at the relevant time. In general, however, a court would look at various facts and circumstances related to the entity in question, including evaluation of whether or not:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe sum of its debts, including contingent and unliquidated liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tit could not pay its debts as they became due.. If a court were to find that any transaction, contribution or distribution involved in the spin-off was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the transaction, contribution or distribution. In addition, the spin-off could also be voided if a court were to find that the spin-off was not a legal dividend under Delaware corporate law. The resulting complications, costs and expenses of either finding could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity ownership in New TruGreen.. Our directors and officers may own shares of New TruGreen's common stock or be affiliated with certain equity owners of New TruGreen. This ownership may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and New TruGreen. In connection with the TruGreen Spin-off, we entered into a transition services agreement with New TruGreen under which we will provide a range of support services to New TruGreen for a limited period of time. Potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between us and New TruGreen regarding the terms of the transition services agreement or other agreements governing the TruGreen Spin-off and the relationship thereafter between the companies."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
