[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto, before you decide to buy or hold shares of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. We may not be able to control any of those risks and uncertainties. If any of those risks and uncertainties, whether described below or not, actually occurs, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. To facilitate a review of our risk factors, we have organized our risk factors into general groups of risks, including \"General Business Risks,\" \"Products, Services and Sales Risks,\" \"Technological and Intellectual Property Risks,\" \"Regulatory Risks,\" \"Capital Expenditures, Expansions, Acquisitions and Divestitures Risk,\" \"International Operations Risks,\" \"Capital Structure Risks,\" \"Employee Risks\" and \"Other Risks.\" The grouping of risks is to facilitate your review only, and no ranking of importance of risks or other inference should be made on account of such groups.. General Business Risks. Our 2020 Plan may not be effective in achieving our stated strategic and operating objectives, and our efforts may increase costs or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are implementing a new strategic plan, the 2020 Plan, centered on focusing on our organic growth, rationalizing our cost structure to improve profitability, improving our working capital management primarily through the reduction of inventory levels and other working capital items such as accounts payable and accounts receivable. While the new strategy calls for increased emphasis on certain operational targets, such as growing our net sales, reducing our operating expenses as a percentage of net sales and decreasing our inventory levels, it moderates focus on other aspects of our operations that used to be part of our prior strategy, such as certain categories of acquisitions (especially in the concrete space).. There can be no guarantee that the new strategy will yield the results that we currently anticipate or results that will exceed those that might be obtained under our prior strategy, if we fail to successfully execute on one or more prongs of the new strategy, even if we successfully implement one or more other prongs.. We may not fully execute on one or more elements of the new strategy due to any number of reasons, including, for instance, because of the division of our management and financial resources among multiple objectives, or other factors beyond our control or not foreseeable.. The successful execution of our new strategy depends on, among other things, our ability to:. • Maintain our top-line growth and achieve a net sales compound annual growth rate of approximately 8% from fiscal 2016 through fiscal 2020 by gaining market share in certain products lines;. 10. • Carry out effective cost reduction measures in Europe and our concrete product line, justify certain expense categories for each new period, and by fiscal 2020, reduce our operating expenses as a percent of net sales to be below or at 27%;. • Eliminate at least 25% to 30% of our product SKUs, implement Lean principles in our factories, and achieve an additional 30% reduction of our raw materials and finished goods inventory by fiscal 2020; and. • Realize return from our investment in software initiatives.. If we cannot address these challenges successfully without interrupting our day-to-day operations, productions and procedures, or overcome execution risks and other critical obstacles that may emerge as we gain experience with our new strategy, we may not be successful in achieving such strategic and operating objectives, we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues or profitability at the rates we currently contemplate, if at all, and our efforts to execute the 2020 Plan may increase costs or otherwise adversely affect our business.. As a result, we may refine our strategic and operating objectives, update our current strategic plan, and pursue strategies outside the 2020 Plan that we believe represent great opportunities due to changes in our business, operations and financial condition such as, lower-than-expected revenues, unanticipated expenses, increased competition, unfavorable economic conditions, other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or other unforeseen circumstances.. Business cycles affect our operating results.. Our operating results and our stock price are heavily tied to the health of the building construction industry, with an estimated 60% of our total product sales being dependent on housing starts. The construction industry is subject to significant volatility due to real estate market cycles, fluctuations in interest rates, the availability, or lack thereof, of credit to builders and developers, inflation rates, weather, and other factors and trends.. Further, many of our customers in the construction industry are small and medium-sized businesses. These businesses are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions may cause these consumers to postpone or refrain from spending or may cause them to switch to lower-cost alternative products, which could reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Additionally, declines in commercial and residential construction, such as housing starts and remodeling projects, which generally occur during economic downturns, have in the past significantly reduced, and in the future can be expected to reduce, the demand for our products and our stock price.. Our sales are seasonal and we have little control over the timing of customer purchases. If we miss seasonal forecasts or customers purchase our products in different quarters than we or analysts expect, our stock could materially decline.. Our sales are seasonal, with operating results varying from quarter to quarter. With some exceptions, our sales and income have historically been lower in the first and fourth quarters than in the second and third quarters, as customers tend to purchase construction materials in the late spring and summer months for the construction season. In addition, weather conditions, such as unseasonably warm, cold or wet weather, which affect, and sometimes delay or accelerate installation of some of our products, may significantly affect our results of operations. Sales that we anticipate in one quarter may occur in another quarter, affecting both quarters' results and potentially our stock price.. In addition, we typically ship orders as we receive them and maintain inventory levels to allow us to operate with little backlog. The efficiency of our inventory system, and our ability to avoid backlogs and potential loss of customers, is closely tied to our ability to accurately predict seasonal and quarterly variances. Further, our planned expenditures are also based primarily on sales forecasts. When sales do not meet our expectations, our operating results will be reduced for the relevant quarters, as we will have already incurred expenses based on those expectations. This could result in a material decline in our stock price.. 11. We operate in a competitive industry, and if we fail to anticipate and react appropriately to competitors, technological changes, changing industry trends and other competitive forces our sales and profit margins will decline.. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to meet changing market conditions and develop enhancements to our products on a timely basis in order to maintain our competitive advantage. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our continued growth depends upon our ability to develop additional products, services and technologies that meet our customers' expectation of our brand and quality. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products, product enhancements and additional technologies, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products, or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, or will achieve market acceptance.. Further, one of the core elements of our strategy is to provide high quality products and customer services. Many of our competitors are dedicating increasing resources to competing with us, especially as our products and services become more affected by technological advances and software innovations. Some of our competitors have more experience producing software and other technology-driven solutions. As a result, we are dedicating increasing resources to research and development in new and changing technologies in order to stay competitive and provide high quality and innovative products and services. These increased expenditures could reduce our operating results.. Additionally, our ability to compete effectively depends, to a significant extent, on the specification or approval of our products by architects, engineers, building inspectors, building code officials and customers and their acceptance of our premium brand. If a significant segment of those communities were to decide that the design, materials, manufacturing, testing or quality control of our products is inferior to that of any of our competitors or the cost differences between our products and any competitors are not justifiable, our sales and profits would be materially reduced.. Our future growth may depend on our ability to develop new products and penetrate new markets, which could reduce our profitability.. Our future success depends upon our continued investment in research and new product development and our ability to continue to develop new products that allow us to expand into new markets. Expansion into new markets and the development of new products may involve considerable costs and may not generate sufficient revenue to be profitable or cover the costs of development. We might not be able to penetrate these product markets and any market penetration that occurs might not be timely or profitable. We may be unable to recoup part or all of the significant investments we will have made in attempting to penetrate new markets.. Our failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact our results of operations or cash flows.. We are exposed to and become involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of our business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as our products and services, product liability, employment-related claims, our distributors, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions.. The defense of litigation, including fees of legal counsel, expert witnesses and related costs, is expensive and difficult to forecast accurately. In general, such costs are unrecoverable even if we ultimately prevail in litigation and could represent a significant use of our capital resources. To defend lawsuits, it is also necessary for us to divert officers and other employees from their normal business functions to gather evidence, give testimony and otherwise support litigation efforts. We expect to experience higher than normal litigation costs arising from the lawsuits disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If we lose any material litigation, we could face material judgments or awards against us. An unfavorable resolution of one or more of the proceedings in which we are involved now or in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, cash flow and financial condition.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. In addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from our estimates for such contingent liabilities.. 12. Product, Services and Sales Risks. Design defects, labeling defects, product formula defects, inaccurate chemical mixes, product recalls and/or product liability claims could harm our reputation, sales and financial results.. We have on occasion found flaws and deficiencies in the design, manufacturing, assembling, labeling, product formulations, chemical mixes or testing of our products. We also have on occasion found flaws and deficiencies in raw materials and finished goods produced by others and used with or incorporated into our products. Some flaws and deficiencies have not been apparent until after the products were installed by customers.. Many of our products are integral to the structural soundness or safety of the structures in which they are used. If any flaws or deficiencies exist in our products and if such flaws or deficiencies are not discovered and corrected before our products are incorporated into structures, the structures could be unsafe or could suffer severe damage, such as collapse or fire, and personal injury or death could result. Errors in the installation of our products, even if the products are free of flaws and deficiencies, could also cause personal injury or death and unsafe structural conditions. To the extent that such damage or injury is not covered by our product liability insurance and we are held to be liable, we could be required to correct such damage and to compensate persons who might have suffered injury or death, and our reputation, business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Even if a flaw or deficiency is discovered before any damage or injury occurs, we may need to refund customers and/or repair or recall products (to the extent possible), and we may be liable for any costs necessary to replace recalled products or retrofit or remedy the affected structures. Any such recall, retrofit or other remedy could entail substantial costs and adversely affect our reputation, sales and financial condition. We do not carry insurance against recall costs or the adverse business effect of a recall, and our product liability insurance may not cover retrofit or other remedy costs.. As a result of the nature of many of our products and their use in construction projects, claims (including product warranty claims and claims resulting from a natural disaster) may be made against us with regard to damage or destruction of structures incorporating our products whether or not our products failed. Any such claims, if asserted, could require us to expend material time and efforts defending the claim and may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Costs associated with resolving such claims (such as repair or replacement of the affected parts) could be material and may exceed any amounts reserved in our consolidated financial statements.. While we generally attempt to limit our contractual liability and our exposure to price or expense increases, we may have uncapped liabilities or significant exposure under some contracts, and could suffer material losses under such contracts.. We enter into many types of contracts with our customers, suppliers and other third parties, including in connection with our expansion into new markets and new product lines. Under some of these contracts, our overall liability may not be limited to a specified maximum amount or we may have significant potential exposure to price or expense increases. If we receive claims under these contracts or experience significant price increases or comparable expense increases, we may incur liabilities significantly in excess of the revenues associated with such contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our software provides some design functions to customers, and we are involved both in product sales and engineering services. Any software errors or deficiencies or failures in our engineering services could have material adverse effects on our operations and financial condition.. Our design software facilitates the creation by customers of complex construction and building designs and we are involved both in product sales and engineering services. Our software is extremely complex and is continually being modified and improved. As a result, it may contain defects or errors and new versions may introduce new defects and errors. While we have attempted to limit our potential liability for the failure of any designs created by our software, as a result of defects in our software, the structures could be unsafe or could suffer severe damage, such as collapse or fire, and personal injury or death could result. Errors in construction unconnected with our design could also cause personal injury or death and unsafe structural conditions, even if our software design is sufficient. To the extent that a structure designed by our software suffers any failure or deficiency, we could be required to correct deficiencies and may become involved in litigation, even if our software design was not the cause of such deficiency. Further, if any damage or injury is not covered by our insurance and we are held to be liable, we could be required to correct such damage and to compensate persons who might have suffered injury, and our reputation, business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. 13. While we engage in testing and upgrades, there can be no assurance that, despite our testing and upgrades, errors will not be found in new and existing products resulting in loss of revenues or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, adverse litigation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition.. We are also involved in providing engineering solutions to our clients. The risks associated with providing these services are materially different than the risks we historically faced when we only produced products. If our engineers prepare, approve or seal drawings that contain defects or otherwise are involved in any design or construction that contains flaws, regardless of whether our engineers caused such flaws, we may be held liable for professional negligence or other damages, which could involve material claims.. We have a few large customers, the loss of any one of which could negatively affect our sales and profits.. Our largest customers accounted for a significant portion of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015. Any reduction in, or termination of, our sales to these customers would at least temporarily, and possibly on a longer term basis, cause a material reduction in our net sales, income from operations and net income. Such a reduction in or elimination of our sales to any of our largest customers would increase our relative dependence on our remaining large customers.. In addition, our distributor customers have increasingly consolidated over time, which has increased the material adverse effect of losing any one of them and may increase their bargaining power in negotiations with us. These trends could negatively affect our sales and profitability.. Increases in prices of raw materials could negatively affect our sales and profits.. Our principal raw material is steel, including stainless steel. The steel industry can have large fluctuations. Numerous factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, competition, worldwide demand, material and labor costs, energy costs, foreign exchange rates, import duties and other trade restrictions influence prices for our raw materials. Further, the domestic steel market is heavily influenced by three major United States manufacturers. We have not always been able, and in the future we might not be able, to increase our product prices in amounts that correspond to increases in costs of raw materials, without materially and adversely affecting our sales and profits.. We have historically not hedged against changes in prices of steel or other raw materials. In past years, however, we have increased our anticipatory purchases of steel in an effort to mitigate the effects of rising steel prices. This strategy, coupled with changing economic conditions, has resulted in substantial fluctuations in our inventory in recent years, which can materially and adversely affect our margins, cash flow and profits.. We depend on third parties for transportation services and the lack of availability of transportation and/or increases in cost could materially and adversely affect our business and operations.. Our business depends on the transportation of both finished goods to our customers and distributors and the transportation of raw materials to us. We rely on third parties for transportation services of these items, which services are occasionally in high demand (especially at the end of calendar quarters) and/or subject to price fluctuations.. If the required supply of transportation services is unavailable when needed, our manufacturing processes may be interrupted or we may be unable to sell our products at full value, or at all. This could harm our reputation, negatively impact our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, a material increase in transportation rates or fuel surcharges could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. Technological and Intellectual Property Risks. Our recent efforts to increase our technology offerings and integrate new software and application offerings may prove unsuccessful and may affect our future prospects.. Our industry has experienced increased complexity in some home design and builders are more aggressively trying to reduce their costs. One of our responses has been to design and market sophisticated software to facilitate the design and. 14. marketing of our product systems. We have continued to commit substantial resources to our software development endeavors in recent years and expect that trend to continue in 2018.. We have a limited operating history in the technology space and may not be able to create commercially successful software and applications. Even if we are able to create initially successful ideas, the technology industry is subject to rapid changes. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to keep up with changing demands, and our software may become obsolete.. While we see having a software interface with the construction industry as a potential growth area, we also face competition from other companies that are focused solely or primarily on the development of software and applications. These companies may have significantly greater expertise and resources to devote to software development, and we may be unable to compete with them in that space.. If we cannot protect our technology, we will not be able to compete effectively.. Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends in part on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology, in part through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property protections. We might not be able to protect or rely on our patents and copyrights. Patents might not issue pursuant to pending patent applications. Our software copyright and other protections might not be adequate to protect our software and application code. Others might independently develop the same or similar technology, develop around the patented aspects of any of our products or proposed products, or otherwise obtain access to or circumvent our proprietary technology. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology to maintain our competitive position. We might not be able to protect our trade secrets, our know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our significant products, our sales and profits are likely to be materially reduced.. In attempting to protect our proprietary information, we sometimes initiate lawsuits against competitors and others that we believe have infringed or are infringing our rights. In such an event, the defendant may assert counterclaims to complicate or delay the litigation or for other reasons. Litigation may be very costly and may result in adverse judgments that affect our sales and profits materially and adversely.. Claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others may materially increase our expenses and reduce our profits.. Other parties have in the past and may in the future claim that our products or processes infringe their intellectual property rights. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities in investigating, defending and resolving such claims, whether or not they are meritorious, which may materially reduce our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Litigation can be disruptive to normal business operations and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. If any such infringement claim is asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology, any of which could be costly and time-consuming. A ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit could include an injunction barring our production or sale of any infringing product. A damages award against us could include an award of royalties or lost profits and, if the court finds willful infringement, treble damages and attorneys' fees.. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our reputation and profitability could be negatively affected.. We depend on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. We depend on our information technology infrastructure for electronic communications among our locations around the world and between our personnel and our subsidiaries, customers and suppliers. We collect and retain large volumes of internal and customer, vendor and supplier data, including some personally identifiable information, for business purposes. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of our customer, vendor, supplier, employee and other Company data is critical to our business. The regulatory environment governing information, security and privacy laws is increasingly demanding and continues to evolve. Maintaining compliance with applicable security and privacy regulations may increase our operating costs or adversely affect our business operations.. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors or other agents or representatives. Security breaches of our infrastructure could. 15. create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosures of confidential information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party distributors with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber-attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or Company information, whether by us or by the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party distributors with which we do business, could result in losses, severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability (including regulatory liability), disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We publicly post our privacy policies and practices concerning our processing, use, and disclosure of personally identifiable information on our website. The publication of our privacy policy and other statements we publish that provide assurances about privacy and security can subject us to potential federal, state, or other regulatory action if they are found to be deceptive or misrepresentative of our practices.. We may experience delays or outages in our information technology system and computer networks.. We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by delays or disruptions due to system updates, natural disasters, malicious attacks, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins or similar events or disruptions.. Despite our security measures, our systems could be vulnerable to disruption, and any such disruption could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our agreements for software and software-as-services products have limited terms, and we may be unable to renew such agreements and may lose access to such products.. We have various agreements with a number of third parties that provide software and software-as-service products to us. These agreements often require reoccurring payments for online access to the products and have limited terms. In the future, we will be required to renegotiate the terms of these agreements, and may be unable to renew such agreements on favorable terms. If any such agreement cannot be renewed or can only be renewed on terms that are materially worse for us, we may be unable to access the applicable software, and our business and operating results may be adversely affected.. Regulatory Risks. Failure to comply with industry regulations could result in reduced sales and increased costs.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing emissions into the air, discharges into water, and generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. We are also subject to other federal and state laws and regulations regarding health and safety matters.. Our manufacturing operations involve the use of solvents, chemicals, oils and other materials that are regarded as hazardous or toxic. We also use complex and heavy machinery and equipment that can pose severe safety hazards, especially if not properly and carefully used. Some of our products also incorporate materials that are hazardous or toxic in some forms, such as zinc and lead used in some steel galvanizing processes, chemicals used in our acrylic and epoxy anchoring products, and chemicals used in our concrete repair, strengthening and protecting products. The gun powder used in our powder-actuated tools is explosive. We have in the past, and may in the future, need to take steps to remedy our failure to properly label, store, transport, use and manufacture such toxic and hazardous materials.. If we do not obtain all material licenses and permits required by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we may be subject to regulatory action by governmental authorities. If our policies and procedures are flawed, or our employees fail or neglect to follow our policies and procedures in all respects, we might incur liability. Relevant laws and regulations could change or new ones could be adopted that require us to incur substantial expense to comply.. 16. Complying or failing to comply with conflict minerals regulations could materially and adversely affect our supply chain, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our financial results.. We are currently subject to conflict mineral disclosure regulations in the U.S. and may be affected by new regulations concerning conflict and similar minerals adopted by other jurisdictions where we operate. While we have been successful to date in adapting to such regulations, we have and will continue to incur added costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of such minerals used in our products. We may not be able to ascertain the origins of such minerals that we use and may not be able to satisfy requests from customers to certify that our products are free of conflict minerals. These requirements also could constrain the pool of suppliers from which we source such minerals. We may be unable to obtain conflict-free minerals at competitive prices. Such consequences will increase costs and may materially and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and profitability.. When we provide engineering services we are subject to various local, state and federal rules and regulations which can increase our potential liability.. As part of our product offerings, we may provide engineering and design-related services to our clients. Some of these services require us to stamp drawings or otherwise be involved in the engineering process. While we generally attempt to limit our liability through our internal processes and through our legal agreements with third parties to which we provide such services, under various local, state and federal rules and regulations these limitations may not be effective and we may be held liable for engineering failures. Any such liability could materially and adversely affect our profitability.. Capital Expenditures, Expansions, Acquisitions and Divestitures Risks. Our acquisition activities, if any, present unique risks for our business, and any acquisition could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. We compete for acquisitions with other potential acquirers, some of which have greater financial or operational resources than we do. As a result, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or strategic opportunities. Any acquisitions we undertake involve numerous risks, including, for example:. • inadequate access to information and/or due diligence of acquired businesses;. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • overvaluation of acquired businesses;. • difficulties assimilating the operations and products of acquired businesses, including expensive and time consuming integration costs such as employee redeployment, relocation or severance, combining teams and processes in various functional areas, reorganization or closures of facilities, and relocation or disposition of excess equipment;. • inaccurate accounting or public reporting arising from integration of the financial statements and disclosures of acquired businesses;. • undisclosed existing or potential liabilities of acquired businesses;. • slow acceptance or rejection of acquired businesses' products by our customers;. • risks of entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience;. • litigation involving activities, properties or products of acquired businesses;. • increased cost of regulatory compliance and enforcement;. • consumer and other claims related to products of acquired businesses; and. • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses.. In addition, future acquisitions may involve issuance of additional equity securities that dilute the value of our existing equity securities, increase our debt, cause impairment related to goodwill and cause impairment of, and amortization expenses related to, other intangible assets, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Any acquisition could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, and as a result, our business and operating results may differ from any guidance that we may provide.. We may decide to dispose of assets and incur material expenses in doing so.. We have terminated in the past and may terminate in the future product lines or businesses if we determine that the cost of operating them is not warranted by their expected profitability. For example, we closed our sales offices in China, Thailand and Dubai in 2015. There are significant costs with such divestitures, which could materially and adversely affect our sales, assets, profitability and financial condition.. 17. Our capital expenditures may not be adequate to maintain our competitive position and may not be implemented in a timely or cost-effective manner.. Our capital expenditures are limited by our liquidity and capital resources and the amount we have available for capital spending is limited by the need to pay our other expenses and to maintain adequate cash reserves and borrowing capacity to meet unexpected demands that may arise. Productivity improvements through process re-engineering, design efficiency and manufacturing cost improvements may be required to offset potential increases in labor and raw material costs and competitive price pressures. If we are unable to make sufficient capital expenditures, or to maximize the efficiency of the capital expenditures we do make, our competitive position may be harmed and we may be unable to manufacture the products necessary to compete successfully in our targeted market segments.. Additional financing, if needed, to fund our working capital, growth or other business requirements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all.. If the cash needed for working capital or to fund our growth or other business requirements increases to a level that exceeds the amount of cash that we generate from operations and have available through our current credit arrangements, we will need to seek additional financing. Additional or new borrowings may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to raise money by issuing and selling shares of our common or preferred stock depends on general market conditions and the demand for our stock. If we sell stock, our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution. Our inability to secure additional financing could prevent the expansion of our business, internally and through acquisitions.. If we change significantly the location, nature or extent of some of our manufacturing operations, we may reduce our net income.. If we decide to change significantly the location, nature or extent of a portion of our manufacturing operations, we may need to record an impairment of our goodwill. Our goodwill totaled $137.1 million at December 31, 2017. Recording an impairment of our goodwill correspondingly reduces our net income. Other changes or events in the future could further impair our recorded goodwill, which could also materially and adversely affect our profitability.. International Operations Risks. Our international operations may be materially and adversely affected by factors beyond our control.. Economic, social and political conditions, laws, practices and customs vary widely among the countries where we produce or sell our products. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including, for example, lower profit margins, less protection of intellectual property and economic, political and social uncertainty in some countries. Our sales and profits depend, in part, on our ability to develop and implement policies and strategies that effectively anticipate and manage these and other risks in the countries where we do business. These and other risks may materially and adversely affect our operations in any particular country and our business as a whole.. International construction standards, techniques and methods differ from those in the United States. Laws and regulations applicable in new markets may be unfamiliar to us. Compliance may be substantially more costly than we anticipate. As a result, we may need to redesign our products, or invent or design new products, to compete effectively and profitably in international markets. Inflation in emerging markets may also make our products more expensive there and increases the market and credit risks that we are exposed to.. Other significant challenges to conducting business in foreign countries include, among other factors, local acceptance of our products, political instability, changes in import and export regulations, changes in tariff and freight rates, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, currency controls, cash repatriation restrictions and differing economic outcomes.. International operations expose us to foreign exchange rate risk.. We have foreign exchange rate risk in our international operations and through purchases from foreign vendors. We do not currently hedge this risk. Changes in currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our sales and profitability.. 18. Because of our international operations, we could be adversely affected by violations of applicable U.S. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-kickback laws.. As a result of our expanded international operations, we face increasing compliance and regulatory oversight related to operating in foreign countries. The foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations are complex and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance, or limit or restrict the products or services we sell or subject our business to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other similar laws and regulations, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign governmental officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our policies mandate compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including anti-bribery laws and other anti-corruption laws, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in preventing our employees or other agents from taking actions in violation of these laws or regulations. Such violations, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our international operations depend on our successful management of our subsidiaries outside of the United States.. We conduct our international business through wholly owned subsidiaries. Managing distant subsidiaries and fully integrating them into our business is challenging. We cannot directly supervise every aspect of the operations of our subsidiaries operating outside the United States. As a result, we rely on local managers and staff. Cultural factors and language differences can result in misunderstandings among internationally dispersed personnel. The risk that unauthorized conduct may go undetected may be greater in subsidiaries outside of the United States. These problems could adversely affect our sales and profits.. Failure to comply with export, import, and sanctions laws and regulations could affect us materially and adversely.. We are subject to a number of export, import and economic sanction regulations, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (\"ITAR\"), the Export Administration Regulations (\"EAR\") and U.S. sanction regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets (\"OFAC\"). Foreign governments where we have operations also implement export, import and sanction laws and regulations, some of which may be inconsistent or conflict with ITAR and EAR. Where we face such inconsistencies, it may be impossible for us to comply with all applicable regulations.. If we do not obtain all necessary import and export licenses required by applicable export and import regulations, including ITAR and EAR, or do business with sanctioned countries or individuals, we may be subject to fines, penalties and other regulatory action by governmental authorities, including, among other things, having our export or import privileges suspended. Even if our policies and procedures for exports, imports and sanction regulations comply, but our employees fail or neglect to follow them in all respects, we might incur similar liability.. Any changes in applicable export, import or sanction laws or regulations or any legal or regulatory violations could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Our manufacturing facilities in China complicate our supply and inventory management.. We maintain manufacturing capability in various parts of the world, in part to allow us to serve our customers with prompt delivery of needed products. Such customer service is a significant factor in our efforts to compete with larger companies that have greater resources than we have. In recent years, we have substantially expanded our manufacturing in China. Nearly all of our manufacturing output in China was and is currently intended for export to other parts of the world. Because of the great distances between our manufacturing facilities in China and the markets to which the products made there will be shipped, we may have difficulty providing adequate service to our customers, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our attempts to provide prompt delivery may necessitate that in China we produce and keep on hand substantially more inventory of finished products than would otherwise be needed. Inventory fluctuations can materially and adversely affect our margins, cash flow and profits. Any tariffs, duties, taxes, penalties imposed by the United States on imports from China would negatively affect our inventory management and profits.. We are subject to U.S. and international tax laws that could affect our financial results.. We generally conduct international operations through our wholly-owned subsidiaries. Our income tax liabilities in the different countries where we operate depend in part on internal settlement prices and administrative charges among us. 19. and our subsidiaries. These arrangements require us to make judgments with which tax authorities may disagree. Tax authorities may impose additional tariffs, duties, taxes, penalties and interest on us. Transactions that we have arranged in light of current tax rules could have material and adverse consequences if tax rules change, and changes in tax rules or imposition of any new or increased tariffs, duties and taxes could materially and adversely affect our sales, profits and financial condition.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations are issued or applied. The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. If the U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.. Recent changes in applicable law regarding the transfer of personally identifiable information by U.S. companies doing business in the European Union could lead us to spend significant resources trying to comply with the newly developed rules. We may not succeed in meeting such requirements, and we may face governmental actions and suffer business losses.. We have in the past relied on adherence to the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor Policy Principles and compliance with the Safe Harbor Frameworks as agreed to and set forth by the European Commission and the United States, which established a means for legitimating the transfer of personally identifiable information by U.S. companies doing business in the European Union (\"EU\") to the U.S. under the EU Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC). New EU legislation, the General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (\"GDPR\") will apply from May 25, 2018, in replacement of the EU Data Protection Directive, and is expected to have a significant impact on how businesses can collect and process the personal data of EU individuals.. In light of the GDPR, we have made and continue to engage in additional compliance efforts when transferring certain data from the EU. We may be unsuccessful in complying with the new EU data transfer requirements, and as a result, we may be at risk of enforcement actions taken by an EU data protection authority until such point in time that we ensure all data transfers to us from the EU are in compliance with applicable law. We may find it necessary to establish systems to maintain EU-origin data in the European Economic Area, which may involve substantial expense and distraction from other aspects of our business.. Capital Structure Risks. A stockholder controls approximately 11% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, which may reduce other stockholders' ability to influence our affairs.. As of December 31, 2017, Sharon Simpson controlled, directly and indirectly, approximately 11% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. Ms. Simpson, therefore, has significant influence with respect to our corporate matters requiring stockholder approval such as the election of our directors and proposals that come before the stockholders at the annual meeting or other special meetings.. Further, if all or a substantial portion of her shares of our common stock is sold, it could depress the price of our common stock.. Any issuance of preferred stock may dilute your investment and reduce funds available for dividends.. Our Board of Directors is authorized by our Certificate of Incorporation to determine the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and to authorize the issuance of shares of any such series on such terms as our Board of Directors may approve. Any such issuance could be used to impede an acquisition of our business that our Board of Directors does not approve, further dilute the equity investments of holders of our common stock and reduce funds available for the payment of dividends to holders of our common stock.. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price.. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue, from time to time, authorized and unissued shares of our common stock. Our issuance of substantial amounts of new shares of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock.. 20. All of the outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), other than shares of our common stock held by our \"affiliates,\" as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which, however, may be sold by our affiliates pursuant to Rule 144.. If a substantial number of shares of our common stock are sold in the public market pursuant to Rule 144 by our affiliates or issued upon the exercise of our outstanding options, the trading price of our common stock in the public market could be adversely affected. As of February 26, 2018, there were 5,294,439 million shares held by our affiliates. Delaware law and our corporate governance documents could deter takeover attempts that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make the acquisition of the Company more difficult for potential acquirers by prohibiting stockholders holding 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from acquiring us without the consent of our Board of Directors for at least three years from the date they first hold 15% or more of the voting stock.. Pursuant to the Company's current corporate governance documents, our stockholders cannot call special meetings and cannot take action by written consent. In addition, a change in the composition of our Board of Directors that is not approved by the existing Board of Directors could trigger a default under our existing credit facilities.. These provisions may discourage, delay or make difficult a merger or acquisition of the Company, including a transaction that may offer a premium price for our common stock.. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly-traded company, including costs arising from the scrutiny of our business, practice and governance as a publicly-traded company.. As a U.S. public company, we are generally subject to the reporting and other requirements of applicable federal and state securities laws, rules and regulations and scrutiny by stockholders and proxy advisors. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations and attending to stockholder requests, requires us to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses and costs, makes some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increases demands on our systems and resources, and may continue to do so. For example, we recently expended significant time and resources in terminating our stockholder rights plan, creating a compensation recovery policy and an anti-hedging and anti-pledging policy, redesigning our executive compensation program and responding to other requests from our stockholders. We continue to implement strategic and board initiatives to comply with recent and updated best-practices related to our public company status and respond to stockholder feedback, and expect that will have to continue to allocate significant time and resources to such endeavors.. In addition, as a result of disclosure of information in filings required of a public company, our business and financial condition will become more visible, which may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and operating results could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business, brand and reputation and results of operations.. Employee Risks. We depend on key management and technical personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business.. We depend on our key management and technical personnel. The loss of one or more key employees could materially and adversely affect us.. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and marketing and management personnel necessary for the maintenance and expansion of our activities. We face strong competition for such personnel and may not be able to attract or retain such personnel. In addition, when we experience periods with little or no profits, a decrease in compensation based on our profits may make it difficult to attract and retain highly qualified personnel.. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and stock-based compensation. Our primary form of stock-based compensation is restricted stock units (\"RSUs\"). We have issued a substantial number of RSUs in various forms to our management and staff. We cannot. 21. guarantee that such stock-based incentive awards are tax deductible. As a result, we may be required to pay additional tax on stock-based compensation to our employees.. If the anticipated value of our stock-based incentive awards does not materialize so that they cease to be viewed as valuable, if our profits decrease, or if our total compensation package is not viewed as competitive, our ability to attract, retain and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. The failure to successfully hire and retain executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations.. Any work stoppage or interruption by employees could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. A significant number of our employees are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements that will expire between 2018 and 2021. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are generally good, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements, if disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage or interruption, we could experience a significant disruption of, or inefficiencies in, our operations or incur higher labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.. Other Risks. Natural disasters could decrease our manufacturing capacity.. Some of our current manufacturing facilities are located in geographic regions that have experienced major natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes. Our disaster recovery plan may not be adequate or effective. We do not carry earthquake insurance. Other insurance that we carry is limited in the risks covered and the amount of coverage. Our insurance would not be adequate to cover all of our resulting costs, business interruption and lost profits when a major natural disaster occurs. A natural disaster rendering one or more of our manufacturing facilities totally or partially unusable, whether or not covered by insurance, would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Climate change could materially and adversely affect our business.. We cannot predict the effects that climate change may have on our business. They might, for example:. • depress or reverse economic development,. • reduce the demand for construction,. • increase the cost and reduce the availability of fresh water,. • destroy forests, increasing the cost and reducing the availability of wood products used in construction,. • increase the cost and reduce the availability of raw materials and energy,. • increase the cost of capital,. • increase the cost and reduce the availability of insurance covering damage from natural disasters,. • lead to claims regarding the content or adequacy of our public disclosures, and. • lead to new laws and regulations that increase our expenses and reduce our sales.. Any of these consequences, and other consequences of climate change that we do not foresee, could materially and adversely affect our sales, profits and financial condition.. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.. We provide guidance on our anticipated tax rates. Failure to meet these anticipated rates could cause us to miss analyst forecasts and could result in material declines in our stock price. Our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of changes in foreign tax exchanges, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. 22. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Reform Act\") was signed into law. The impact of the Tax Reform Act and any future Treasury rules, regulations or guidance thereunder on our business and our stockholders is uncertain and could be adverse and cause our future results of operations and financial condition to differ materially from our expectations, estimates and assumptions disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or previously.. Contracts that we file as exhibits to our public reports contain recitals, representations and warranties that may not be factually correct.. The parties to any agreement or other instrument that we file as an exhibit to this or any other report did not necessarily intend that any recital, representation, warranty or other statement of purported fact in the instrument establish or confirm any fact, even if it is worded as such. Often such statements are used to allocate contractual risk between the parties, and the statements often are subject to standards of materiality that differ from the standards applicable to our reports. In addition, such statements may have been qualified by other materials that we have not filed with (or incorporated by reference into) this or any other report or document. Such exhibits should be read in the context of our other disclosures in our reports and it should not be assumed that any statement, representation or warranty of any party is necessarily factually accurate.. Impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. We are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and definite-lived intangible assets annually or at any time when events occur that could affect the value of such assets. To determine whether a goodwill impairment has occurred, we compare fair value of each of our reporting units with its carrying value. In the past, these tests have led us to incur significant impairment charges. Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as significant adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulatory authorities, unanticipated competition, loss of key customers or changes in technology or markets, can require a charge for impairment that can materially and adversely affect our reported net income and our stockholders' equity.. We rely on complex software systems and hosted applications to operate our business, and our business may be disrupted if we are unable to successfully/efficiently update these systems or convert to new systems.. We are increasingly dependent on technology systems to operate our business, reduce costs, and enhance customer service. These systems include complex software systems and hosted applications that are provided by third parties such as financial management and human capital management platforms from SAP America, Inc. and Workday, Inc. Software systems need to be updated on a regular basis with patches, bug fixes and other modifications. Hosted applications are subject to service availability and reliability of hosting environments. We also migrate from legacy systems to new systems from time to time. Maintaining existing software systems, implementing upgrades and converting to new systems are costly and require a significant allocation of personnel and other resources. The implementation of these systems upgrades and conversions is a complex and time-consuming project involving substantial expenditures for implementation activities, consultants, system hardware and software, often requires transforming our current business and financial processes to conform to new systems, and therefore, may take longer, be more disruptive, and cost more than forecast and may not be successful. If the implementation is delayed or otherwise is not successful, it may hinder our business operations and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. There are many factors that may materially and adversely affect the schedule, cost, and execution of the implementation process, including, without limitation, problems during the design and testing phases of new systems; system delays and malfunctions; the deviation by suppliers and contractors from the required performance under their contracts with us; the diversion of management attention from our daily operations to the implementation project; reworks due to unanticipated changes in business processes; difficulty in training employees in the operation of new systems and maintaining internal control while converting from legacy systems to new systems; and integration with our existing systems. Some of such factors may not be reasonably anticipated or may be beyond our control.. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting or our accounting systems could harm our business and financial results.. Because of the inherent limitations of internal control, our internal control over financial reporting might not detect or prevent misstatements of our consolidated financial statements on a timely basis. We have used accounting and other financial management software systems in connection with our operations. Defects in such systems or their implementation could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements. Our growth and entry into globally dispersed markets as. 23. well as periodic conversions from legacy software systems to new software systems puts significant additional pressure on our internal control. Failure to maintain an effective internal control could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately or to detect and prevent deficiencies timely, cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and subject us to regulatory investigations and litigation. As a result, our business and the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected.. Changes in accounting standards could materially and adversely affect our financial results.. The accounting rules applicable to public companies are subject to frequent revision. Future changes in accounting standards, guidance and interpretations could require us to change the way we measure revenue, expense or balance sheet amounts, which could result in material and adverse change to our reported results of operations or financial condition."
