[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the information under the caption Item 1. Business \"Competition,\" the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business.  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  See \"Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements\" following this Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We face substantial competition and that competition is likely to increase over time.. We face substantial competition from other providers of radio and audio services.  Our ability to attract and retain subscribers depends on our success in creating and providing popular or unique music, entertainment, news and sports programming.  Our subscribers can obtain certain similar content for free through terrestrial radio stations, Internet radio services and Internet streaming services.  Audio content delivered via the Internet, including through mobile devices that are easily integrated in vehicles, is increasingly competitive with our services.  A summary of various services that compete with us is contained in the section entitled \"Item 1. Business - Competition\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Competition could result in lower subscription, advertising or other revenue and an increase in our marketing, promotion or other expenses and, consequently, lower our earnings and free cash flow.  We cannot assure you we will be able to compete successfully with our existing or future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition.. Our ability to retain subscribers or increase the number of subscribers is uncertain.. Our ability to retain our subscribers, or increase the number of subscribers to our service, is uncertain and subject to many factors, including:. • the price of our service;. • the health of the economy;. • the sale or lease rate of new vehicles in the United States;. • the rate at which our existing self-pay subscribers buy and sell new and used vehicles in the United States;. • our ability to convince owners and lessees of new and previously owned vehicles that include satellite radios to purchase subscriptions to our service;. • the effectiveness of our marketing programs;. • the entertainment value of our programming and the products and packages we offer;. • our ability to respond to evolving consumer tastes; and. • actions by our competitors, such as other audio entertainment and information providers.. 12. Table of Contents. As part of our business, we experience, and expect to experience in the future, subscriber turnover (i.e., churn).. If we are unable to retain current subscribers at expected rates, or the costs of retaining subscribers are higher than expected, our financial performance and operating results could be adversely affected.  We cannot predict how successful we will be at retaining customers who purchase or lease vehicles that include a subscription to our satellite radio service.  A substantial portion of our subscribers are on discounted pricing plans and our ability to retain these subscribers or migrate them to higher priced plans is uncertain.  A substantial number of those subscribers periodically cancel their subscriptions when offered a subscription at a higher price.. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to consistently attract new subscribers and retain our current subscribers at prices and margins consistent with our past performance.. Our ability to profitably attract and retain subscribers as our marketing efforts reach more price-sensitive consumers is uncertain.. Our efforts to acquire subscribers purchasing or leasing used vehicles may attract subscribers of more limited economic means.  For example, consumers purchasing or leasing used vehicles may be more price sensitive than consumers purchasing or leasing new vehicles, may convert from trial subscribers to self-paying subscribers at a lower rate, and may cancel their subscription more frequently than consumers purchasing or leasing new vehicles.  Some of our marketing efforts may also attract more price sensitive subscribers; and our efforts to increase the penetration of satellite radios in new, lower-priced vehicle lines may result in the growth of more economy-minded subscribers.  In addition, over time the changing demographics of our subscriber base, such as the expected increase in customers from the \"millennial generation,\" may increase the number of subscribers accustomed to consuming entertainment through free products.. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our reputation could suffer.. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our subscribers including, in many cases, credit and debit card information.  If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers or if we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and our reputation could suffer.  In addition, our subscribers and potential customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our services.  Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations.. We have a program in place to detect and respond to data security incidents.  However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures.  In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security.  Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deceiving our employees, contractors or other agents.. If hackers were able to circumvent our security measures, a release of proprietary information or personal information could occur or we could experience significant disruptions. If our systems become unavailable or suffer a security breach, we may be required to expend significant resources to address these problems, including notification under various data privacy regulations, and our reputation and operating results could suffer.. Our service may experience harmful interference from new wireless operations.. The development of new applications and services in spectrum adjacent to the frequencies licensed to us, as well as the combination of signals in other frequencies, may cause harmful interference to our satellite radio service in certain areas of the United States.  Certain operations or combination of operations permitted by the FCC in spectrum, other than our licensed frequencies, results in the loss of signal to our service, and the reception of our satellite radio service can be adversely affected in certain areas.  Elimination of this interference may not be possible in all cases.  In other cases, our efforts to reduce this interference may require extensive engineering efforts and additions to our terrestrial infrastructure.  These mitigation efforts may be costly and take several years to implement and may not be entirely effective.  In certain cases, we are dependent on the FCC to assist us in preventing harmful interference to our service.. 13. Table of Contents. We engage in extensive marketing efforts and the continued effectiveness of those efforts are an important part of our business.. We engage in extensive marketing efforts across a broad range of media to attract and retain subscribers to our services.  We employ a wide variety of communications tools as part of our marketing campaigns, including telemarketing efforts and email solicitations.  The effectiveness of our marketing efforts is affected by a broad range of factors, including creative and execution factors.  Our ability to reach consumers with radio and television advertising, direct mail materials, email solicitations and telephone calls is an important part of our efforts and a significant factor in the effectiveness of our marketing.  If we are unable to reach consumers through email solicitations or telemarketing, including as a result of \"spam\" and email filters or call blocking technologies, our marketing efforts will be adversely affected.  A decline in the effectiveness of our marketing efforts could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition.. Consumer protection laws and their enforcement could damage our business.. Consumer protection laws cover nearly all aspects of our marketing efforts, including the content of our advertising, the terms of consumer offers and the manner in which we communicate with subscribers and prospective subscribers.  The nature of our business requires us to expend significant resources to try to ensure that our marketing activities comply with federal and state laws, rules and regulations relating to consumer protection, including laws relating to telemarketing activities and privacy.  There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful or that we will not have to expend even greater resources in our compliance efforts.. Modifications to federal and state laws, rules and regulations concerning consumer protection, including decisions by federal and state courts and agencies interpreting these laws, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain subscribers to our services.  There can be no assurance that new laws or regulations will not be enacted or adopted, preexisting laws or regulations will not be more strictly enforced or that our varied operations will comply with all applicable laws, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition.. We may not realize the benefits of acquisitions or other strategic investments and initiatives.. Our business strategy includes selective acquisitions, other strategic investments and initiatives that allow us to expand our business. The success of any acquisition depends upon effective integration and management of acquired businesses and assets into our operations, which is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realizing the growth potential, the anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel, the diversion of management's attention for other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired business or assets.. The unfavorable outcome of pending or future litigation could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition.. We are parties to several legal proceedings arising out of various aspects of our business, including class actions arising out of our marketing practices and subscription plans.  The outcome of these proceedings may not be favorable, and one or more unfavorable outcomes could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition.  See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" below.. The market for music rights is changing and is subject to significant uncertainties.. We must maintain music programming royalty arrangements with, and pay license fees to, owners of rights in musical works.  Traditionally, BMI, ASCAP and SESAC have negotiated for these copyright users, collected royalties and distributed them to songwriters and music publishers.  These traditional arrangements are changing.  Owners of rights in musical works have withdrawn from BMI, ASCAP and SESAC and new entities, such as GMR, have been formed to represent owners of musical works.  In addition, Committees of Congress have held hearings on substantial revisions of the Copyright Act.  The fracturing of the traditional system for licensing rights in musical works may have significant consequences to our business, including increasing licensing costs and reducing the availability of certain pieces for use on our services.. Under the Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act of 1995 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, we also must pay royalties to copyright owners of sound recordings fixed after February 15, 1972.  Those royalty rates may be established through negotiation or, if negotiation is unsuccessful, by the CRB. Owners of copyrights in sound recordings have created SoundExchange, a collective organization, to collect and distribute royalties.  SoundExchange is exempt by statute from certain U.S. antitrust laws and exercises significant market power in the licensing of sound recordings.  Under the terms of the CRB's recent decision governing sound recording royalties for satellite radio for the five-. 14. Table of Contents. year period ending on December 31, 2022, we will be required to pay a royalty based on our gross revenues, subject to certain exclusions, of 15.5% per year for each of the next five years.  This is a substantial increase over the royalty rate of 11% of our gross revenues that we paid in 2017.. In addition, SoundExchange alleges that we systematically underpaid royalties for statutory licenses related to sound recordings for certain periods beginning in 2007.  See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" below.. Our business depends in large part upon the auto industry.. A substantial portion of our subscription growth has come from purchasers and lessees of new and previously owned automobiles in the United States.  The sale and lease of vehicles with satellite radios is an important source of subscribers for our satellite radio service. We have agreements with every major automaker to include satellite radios in new vehicles, although these agreements do not require automakers to install specific or minimum quantities of radios in any given period.. Automotive production and sales are dependent on many factors, including the availability of consumer credit, general economic conditions, consumer confidence and fuel costs.  To the extent vehicle sales by automakers decline, or the penetration of factory-installed satellite radios in those vehicles is reduced, subscriber growth for our satellite radio services may be adversely impacted.. Sales of previously owned vehicles represent a significant source of new subscribers for us. We have agreements with auto dealers and companies operating in the used vehicle market to provide us with data on sales of previously owned satellite radio enabled vehicles. The continuing availability of this information is important to our future growth.. General economic conditions can affect our business.. The purchase of a satellite radio subscription is discretionary, and our business and our financial condition can be negatively affected by general economic conditions. Poor general economic conditions could adversely affect subscriber churn, conversion rates and vehicle sales.. Existing or future laws and regulations could harm our business.. We are subject to many laws, including federal, state, local and foreign laws.  These laws and regulations cover issues such as user privacy, behavioral advertising, automatic renewal of agreements, pricing, fraud, electronic waste, mobile and electronic device communications, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security.  The expansion of these laws, both in terms of their number and their applicability, could harm our business.. Failure of our satellites would significantly damage our business.. The lives of our satellites vary depending on a number of factors, including:. • degradation and durability of solar panels;. • quality of construction;. • random failure of satellite components, which could result in significant damage to or loss of a satellite;. • amount of fuel the satellite consumes; and. • damage or destruction as a result of electrostatic storms, terrorist attacks, collisions with other objects in space or other events, such as nuclear detonations, occurring in space.. In the ordinary course of operation, satellites experience failures of component parts and operational and performance anomalies. Components on our in-orbit satellites have failed; and from time to time we have experienced anomalies in the operation and performance of these satellites. These failures and anomalies are expected to continue in the ordinary course, and we cannot predict if any of these possible future events will have a material adverse effect on our operations or the life of our existing in-orbit satellites. Any material failure of our satellites could cause us to lose customers and could materially harm our reputation and our operating results. We hold no in-orbit insurance for our satellites.  Additional information regarding our fleet of satellites is contained in the section entitled \"Item 1. Business - Satellites, Terrestrial Repeaters and Other Satellite Facilities\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 15. Table of Contents. In addition, our Sirius network of terrestrial repeaters communicates with a single third-party satellite. Our XM network of terrestrial repeaters communicates with a single XM satellite. If the satellites communicating with the applicable repeater network fail unexpectedly, the services would be disrupted for several hours or longer.. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could negatively impact our results and our brand.. We operate a complex and growing business.  We offer a wide variety of subscription packages at different price points.  Our business is dependent on the operation and availability of our information technology and communication systems and those of certain third party service providers.  Any degradation in the quality, or any failure, of our systems could reduce our revenues, cause us to lose customers and damage our brand.  Although we have implemented practices designed to maintain the availability of our information technology systems and mitigate the harm of any unplanned interruptions, we cannot anticipate all eventualities. We occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. We could also experience loss of data or processing capabilities, which could cause us to lose customers and could materially harm our reputation and our operating results.. We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and service providers to take, fulfill and handle customer service requests and host certain online activities.  Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems could prevent us from servicing customers or cause data to be unintentionally disclosed.. Our data centers and our information technology and communications systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, malicious attacks, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems.. Rapid technological and industry changes and new entrants could adversely impact our services.. The audio entertainment industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product innovations, changes in customer requirements and expectations, evolving standards and new entrants offering products and services. If we are unable to keep pace with these changes, our business may not succeed. Products using new technologies could make our technologies less competitive in the marketplace.. Failure of third parties to perform could adversely affect our business.. Our business depends, in part, on various third parties, including:. • manufacturers that build and distribute satellite radios;. • companies that manufacture and sell integrated circuits for satellite radios;. • programming providers and on-air talent;. • vendors that operate our call centers; and. • vendors that have designed or built, and vendors that support or operate, other important elements of our systems, including our satellites.. If one or more of these third parties do not perform in a satisfactory or timely manner, including complying with our standards and practices relating to business integrity, personnel, cybersecurity and other values, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, a number of third parties on which we depend have experienced, and may in the future experience, financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy protection. Such third parties may not be able to perform their obligations to us in a timely manner, if at all, as a result of their financial condition or may be relieved of their obligations to us as part of seeking bankruptcy protection.. We design, establish specifications, source or specify parts and components, and manage various aspects of the logistics of the production of satellite radios. As a result of these activities, we may be exposed to liabilities associated with the design, manufacture and distribution of radios that the providers of an entertainment service would not customarily be subject to, such as liabilities for design defects, patent infringement and compliance with applicable laws, as well as the costs of returned product.. 16. Table of Contents. Failure to comply with FCC requirements could damage our business.. We hold FCC licenses and authorizations to operate commercial satellite radio services in the United States, including satellites, terrestrial repeaters and related authorizations. The FCC generally grants licenses and authorizations for a fixed term. Although we expect our licenses and authorizations to be renewed in the ordinary course upon their expiration, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. Any assignment or transfer of control of any of our FCC licenses or authorizations must be approved in advance by the FCC.. The operation of our satellite radio systems is subject to significant regulation by the FCC under authority granted through the Communications Act of 1934 and related federal law. We are required, among other things, to operate only within specified frequencies; to meet certain conditions regarding the interoperability of our satellite radios with those of other licensed satellite radio systems; to coordinate our satellite radio services with radio systems operating in the same range of frequencies in neighboring countries; and to coordinate our communications links to our satellites with other systems that operate in the same frequency band. Noncompliance by us with these requirements or other conditions or with other applicable FCC rules and regulations could result in fines, additional license conditions, license revocation or other detrimental FCC actions. There is no guarantee that Congress will not modify the statutory framework governing our services, or that the FCC will not modify its rules and regulations in a manner that would have a material impact on our operations.. We may from time to time modify our business plan, and these changes could adversely affect us and our financial condition.. We regularly evaluate our plans and strategy. These evaluations often result in changes to our plans and strategy, some of which may be material. These changes in our plans or strategy may include: the acquisition or termination of unique or compelling programming; the introduction of new features or services; significant new or enhanced distribution arrangements; investments in infrastructure, such as satellites, equipment or radio spectrum; and investments in, and/or acquisitions of, other businesses, including acquisitions that are not directly related to our satellite radio business.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, and our debt contains certain covenants that restrict our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $6.8 billion of indebtedness outstanding, $300.0 million of which was outstanding under a $1.75 billion Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility.. Our indebtedness increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, marketing and other general corporate activities; limits our ability to borrow additional funds; and may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the audio entertainment industry.. Our studios, terrestrial repeater networks, satellite uplink facilities or other ground facilities could be damaged by natural catastrophes or terrorist activities.. An earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could damage our studios, terrestrial repeater networks or satellite uplink facilities, interrupt our service and harm our business.. Any damage to the satellites that transmit to our terrestrial repeater networks would likely result in degradation of the affected service for some subscribers and could result in complete loss of service in certain or all areas.  Damage to our satellite uplink facilities could result in a complete loss of our services until we could transfer operations to suitable back-up facilities.. Our principal stockholder has significant influence, including over actions requiring stockholder approval, and its interests may differ from the interests of other holders of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, Liberty Media beneficially owned approximately 70% of Holdings' common stock and has the ability to influence our affairs, policies and operations.  Two Liberty Media executives and one other member of the board of directors of Liberty Media are members of our board of directors.  Our board of directors currently has thirteen members.  Gregory B. Maffei, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Liberty Media, is the Chairman of Holdings' board of directors.  Our board of directors is responsible for, among other things, the appointment of executive management, future issuances of common stock or other securities, the payment of dividends, if any, the incurrence of debt, and the approval of various transactions.. 17. Table of Contents. Liberty Media can also determine the outcome of all matters requiring general stockholder approval, including the election of the board of directors and changes to our certificate of incorporation or by-laws.  Liberty Media can also cause or prevent a change of control of Holdings and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company.  The concentration of ownership could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock.  In certain cases, the interests of Liberty Media may not be aligned with the interests of other stockholders of Holdings.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ listing rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. We are a \"controlled company\" for the purposes of the NASDAQ Stock Market listing rules.  As such, we have elected not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements.  Although a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors, we do not have a compensation committee and nominating and corporate governance committee that consist entirely of independent directors.. Our business may be impaired by third-party intellectual property rights.. Development of our systems has depended upon the intellectual property that we have developed, as well as intellectual property licensed from third parties.  If the intellectual property that we have developed or use is not adequately protected, others will be permitted to and may duplicate portions of our systems or services without liability. In addition, others may challenge, invalidate, render unenforceable or circumvent our intellectual property rights, patents or existing licenses or we may face significant legal costs in connection with defending and enforcing those intellectual property rights.  Some of the know-how and technology we have developed, and plan to develop, is not now, nor will it be, covered by U.S. patents or trade secret protections.  Trade secret protection and contractual agreements may not provide adequate protection if there is any unauthorized use or disclosure.  The loss of necessary technologies could require us to substitute technologies of lower quality performance standards, at greater cost or on a delayed basis, which could harm us.. Other parties may have patents or pending patent applications, which will later mature into patents or inventions that may block or put limits on our ability to operate our system or license technologies.  We may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights under license agreements or to determine the scope and validity of other parties' proprietary rights in the subject matter of those licenses.  This may be expensive and we may not succeed in any such litigation.. Third parties may assert claims or bring suit against us for patent, trademark or copyright infringement, or for other infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights.  Any such litigation could result in substantial cost, and diversion of effort and adverse findings in any proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties; require us to seek licenses from third parties; block our ability to operate our systems or license our technology; or otherwise adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and market our satellite radio systems.. While we currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, we may change our dividend policy at any time.. We currently pay a quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock, although we have no obligation to do so, and our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders.  The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant.. Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements. We have made various statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that may constitute \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. The words \"will likely result,\" \"are expected to,\" \"will continue,\" \"is anticipated,\" \"estimated,\" \"believe,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"may,\" \"should,\" \"could,\" \"would,\" \"likely,\" \"projection,\" \"outlook\" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which will arise or to assess with any precision the. 18. Table of Contents. impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by law."
