[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. See Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements.\". We filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on February 5, 2008 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with Chapter 11 proceedings.. For the duration of our Chapter 11 proceedings, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings include the following:. <U+0095>the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in our Chapter 11 proceedings that may be inconsistent with our plans;   <U+0095>our ability to operate subject to the terms of the DIP Facility;   <U+0095>our ability to obtain court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 proceedings prosecuted from time to time;   <U+0095>our ability to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 proceedings, including a plan consistent with the terms set forth in the Plan;   <U+0095>our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with customers, agents and suppliers;   <U+0095>our ability to maintain contracts and leases that are critical to our operations;   <U+0095>risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for us to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization, to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or to convert the cases to Chapter 7 cases; and   <U+0095>the potential adverse impact of the Chapter 11 proceedings on our liquidity and results of operations.. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings could adversely affect our relationship with our customers, as well as with agents, suppliers and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Chapter 11 proceedings are protracted. Also, transactions outside the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities.. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings, the ultimate impact that events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified.. We are subject to litigation and governmental investigations as a result of our operations.. We are subject to litigation resulting from our operations, including litigation resulting from accidents involving our agents and drivers. These accidents have involved, and in the future may involve, serious injuries or the loss of lives. In addition, we occasionally are subject to litigation resulting from our home sale transactions. These lawsuits generally involve disclosure and property damage issues. Any such litigation may result in liability to us or harm our reputation.. 15. As a result of our Chapter 11 filing, most attempts to collect, secure or enforce remedies with respect to pre-petition claims against our company are subject to the automatic stay provisions of section 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code and certain liabilities could be discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases. While we cannot reasonably estimate the potential loss for certain of our legal proceedings because, for example, the litigation is in its early stages or the plaintiff does not specify damages being sought, if the outcome of any significant litigation is adverse to us and such proceedings are not discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely impacted.. For a more detailed discussion of our legal proceedings, see Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" below.. Our success depends in part on our strategy of offering a global comprehensive relocation solution to customers.. A significant element of our business model is our strategy of offering a global comprehensive relocation solution to customers by combining our higher-margin relocation services with our proprietary moving services network. If we are not successful in implementing our strategy, we could experience an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. We have had net losses in the last three years, and we may not be profitable in the future.. We had net losses of $412.7 million, $54.6 million and $265.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We cannot provide assurance that we will not report net losses in future periods. We cannot predict what impact potential net losses might have on our ability to finance our operations in the future or on the market value of our common stock.. If we do not successfully compete within the highly competitive industries in which we operate, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.. The global relocation industry is highly competitive. Our main competitors are other corporate relocation service providers such as Prudential Financial, Inc. and Cartus Corporation, which are also significant customers of our moving services business. The moving services industry is extremely fragmented. We compete primarily with national moving companies, including UniGroup Inc. (the operator of United Van Lines, LLC and Mayflower Transit, LLC), Atlas World Group, Graebel Companies, Inc. and Bekins Vanlines, LLC. In the moving services segment, we also face competition from other types of competitors, including independent movers, self-storage and self-haul service providers. There are many small private participants that have strong positions in local markets.. Competition may force us to lower our prices thereby adversely affecting our revenues and profitability.. Competition in the relocation solutions industry and potential new entrants into this industry may force us to lower our prices, thereby affecting our revenues and profitability. If we do not successfully compete within this highly competitive industry, we will lose customers, in which case our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. As we are subject to intense competition, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives in a timely fashion, if at all.. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by future economic downturns and other external events.. We serve numerous industries and customers that experience significant fluctuation in demand based on economic conditions and other factors beyond our control. As our operating results are subject to customer demand, a downturn in the business of our customers or a decrease in the frequency of household moves could materially adversely affect the performance of our business. In the past, our results of operations have been negatively impacted by economic downturns.. 16. The volume of U.K. home sale transactions started to decline in the third quarter of 2004 and continues to be weak. This decline, together with difficult market conditions in the European international moving market, may lead to our European operations suffering price pressures as the competition attempts to capture the remaining business volume. There can be no assurance that this period of reduced moving activity will not continue to exert price pressure on our European operations, resulting in lower revenues and profitability.. Similarly, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war may affect the financial markets, in general, or our business, financial condition and results of operation, in particular. We cannot provide assurance that there will not be future terrorist attacks affecting any of the markets we serve. Any such attacks or armed conflict may directly affect our physical facilities or those of our agents, owner-operators, customers and vendors. In addition, these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or could result in increased volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets and economies.. Our substantial indebtedness may limit our financial and operating activities and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.. We will have substantial indebtedness even if our Plan is consummated. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, our substantial indebtedness could:. <U+0095>require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;   <U+0095>make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events;   <U+0095>limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures;   <U+0095>reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business and economic conditions; and/or   <U+0095>place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have relatively less debt than we have.. In addition, a substantial level of indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We have historically had substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business. These liquidity needs could vary significantly and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors not within our control. Substantial indebtedness, along with other factors, will limit our ability to obtain financing to meet such liquidity needs.. The agreements governing our debt contain restrictions that could significantly restrict our ability to operate our business.. Our Pre-Petition Credit Facility and DIP Facility each contain, and the New Credit Facility will contain, a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations and make capital expenditures. In addition, under our Pre-Petition Credit Facility, we are required to comply with specified financial ratios and tests, including consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated interest coverage ratio requirements. The New Credit Facility is expected to have financial covenants consistent with the Pre-Petition Credit Facility.. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. In the past, we have had to amend our agreements in order to stay in compliance with our debt covenants, facilitate the ongoing operating ability of the Company and effectuate a feasible restructuring of its businesses. There can be no assurance that we would be able to comply with such. 17. covenants or restrictions in the future. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default or cross default under our debt instruments and would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the commitments of our lenders to make further extensions of credit under our credit facilities could be terminated. If we were unable to repay our indebtedness to our lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness.. Our Relocation Services business exposes us to the risks of the real estate industry, including risks relating to the purchase, ownership and resale of transferred employees' homes at a loss.. The growth of our relocation solutions business exposes us to the risks of engaging in the real estate business. As part of our global relocation solutions package, we offer customers home purchase and sale services for their employees. In some fixed-fee programs, if a transferee's home cannot be sold within a given period of time (\"Marketing Period\"), we may have to purchase the home for our own account and may ultimately have to sell the home to a third-party at a loss. Some of these fixed-fee programs have short Marketing Periods. In the future, if fixed-fee programs become a larger portion of our business, we may be required to purchase additional homes. In addition, a decline in the volume or value of existing home sales due to adverse economic changes could increase the number of homes that we may have to purchase, and we may have to sell those homes at a loss or carry these homes for longer periods of time, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations.. Weakening real estate markets can increase the number of homes that our Relocation Services business takes into inventory, resulting in increased costs and lower profitability.. Weakening real estate markets continue to negatively impact our home sale programs, resulting in an increase in the number of homes that we purchase and take into inventory. This may continue to increase our fixed-fee program inventory costs and the potential for a loss on the sale of a home. Because we finance the purchase of homes taken into inventory, an increase in the number of homes that we take into inventory also increases our borrowings under our revolving credit facility, except to the extent we have the ability to obtain first lien mortgages through a national mortgage lender. As a result, the weakening real estate market as well as increased costs may result in lower revenues and profitability and increased use of working capital, which may adversely affect our liquidity.. We may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of agents, representatives or owner-operators to sustain our moving services business.. Our Moving Services North America operations rely on the services of agents to market our services and to act as intermediaries with customers, and on agents and owner-operators to provide a significant portion of our packing, warehousing and hauling services. Although we believe our relationships with our agents and owner-operators are good, we and our agents have had some difficulty obtaining or retaining qualified owner-operators in the past due to industry conditions.. Our agents are independent businesses that provide moving and storage services to our and their own customers, and 20 of our 583 agents account for approximately 31% of our moving and storage business in North America. If an agent were to terminate its relationship with us, we might not be able to recruit a replacement to service the same geographic region. Generally, there are few additional new entrants into this business, and thus recruiting new agents often requires a conversion of an agent from a competing van line. Competing companies also recruit our agents.. Owner-operators are independent contractors who own their trucks and provide hauling and other services. Fluctuations in the economy and fuel prices, as well as a lifestyle that requires drivers to often be away from home from four to eight weeks at a time, create challenges for new entrants to that business. Further, competition for long haul owner-operators is strong among competing moving companies.. 18. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in retaining our agents or owner-operators or that agents or owner-operators that terminate their contracts can be replaced by qualified personnel. As a result of the Chapter 11 Cases, it may become more difficult to retain agents or attract new ones. A loss in the number of experienced drivers could lead to an increased frequency of accidents, potential claims exposure and result in increased insurance costs. Because agents have the primary relationship with customers, we expect that some customers would terminate their relationship should there be a separation between the agent and ourselves. In addition, a loss of agents could impair our ability to guarantee moving capacity to our relocation customers.. Actions taken by our agents may harm our brands or reputation, or result in legal actions against us.. We believe that our strong brand names, including Allied® and northAmerican®, are among our most valuable assets. Our proprietary network of agents in North America operate their businesses using our brand names and, in the case of most intrastate moves, without our involvement. Our agents are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, and actions taken by them, including breaches of their contractual obligations to us, could harm our brands or reputation, or result in legal actions against us. Any negative publicity associated with our agents may affect our reputation and thereby adversely impact our results of operations.. We are a holding company with no significant independent operations and, therefore, rely on our subsidiaries to make funds available to us.. We are a holding company with no significant independent operations and no significant assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries, including SIRVA Worldwide. Therefore, we depend on the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries. Our Pre-Petition Credit Facility and DIP Facility each contain, and the New Credit Facility will contain, a number of significant covenants that, among other matters, restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, incur capital lease obligations, pay dividends, make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations, make capital expenditures, and receive dividends and distributions from SIRVA Worldwide except to fund our operating expenses in the ordinary course of business. In addition, under our Pre-Petition Credit Facility, we are required to comply with specified financial ratios and tests, including consolidated leverage ratio and consolidated interest coverage ratio requirements. The New Credit Facility is expected to have financial covenants consistent with the Pre-Petition Credit Facility. Our inability to receive funds from our operating subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations and to make dividend payments and other distributions to holders of our common stock.. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry is severe and occurrences are unpredictable. In addition, an increase in liability, property or casualty insurance premiums could cause us to incur significant costs.. We use the services of a significant number of drivers in connection with our pick-up and delivery operations, and from time-to-time these drivers are involved in accidents, including accidents occurring in operations that do not involve us. Potential liability associated with accidents in the trucking industry may be severe and occurrences are unpredictable. We are also subject to substantial exposure due to workers' compensation and cargo claims expense, whether or not injuries or damage occur in the context of a traffic accident.. We carry insurance to cover liability and workers' compensation claims. We cannot provide assurance, however, that our insurance will be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. To the extent we were to experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, cargo claims or workers' compensation claims, or in the unfavorable resolution of existing claims, we might be required to incur substantial costs to cover these claims. In addition, our results of operations would be adversely affected if our liability, workers' compensation and casualty premiums were to increase substantially.. 19. If we lost one or more of our government licenses or permits or became subject to more onerous government regulations, including the federal safety rules on truck driver work hours and the federal consumer protection regulations governing the moving industry, we could be adversely affected.. Our operations are subject to a number of complex and stringent transportation, environmental, labor, employment, and other laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally require us to maintain a wide variety of certificates, permits, licenses and other approvals. For example, in the United States, we maintain licenses and permits issued by the Surface Transportation Board, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and the Department of Transportation, as well as the Federal Maritime Commission and banking regulators. We also hold various real estate broker licenses, title insurance licenses and mortgage lending licenses.. In Europe, we, either directly or indirectly through our authorized representative network, hold operator licenses and international transport licenses issued by the relevant local authorities in each of the countries we or they, as applicable, operate trucks. Across Europe, we are required to comply with data protection legislation ensuring the safeguarding of customers' information. In the United Kingdom, we are licensed under the Administration of Justice Act of 1985 to carry out the legal process for the transfer of property. In the United Kingdom, we also are licensed by the Financial Services Authority to sell insurance to our customers. We also hold licenses that permit us to sell insurance in certain European and Asia Pacific countries. Furthermore, we hold various commercial vehicle licenses, as well as other licenses for international relocation, in the Asia Pacific region.. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable laws, ordinances or regulations, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which in turn could restrict our ability to conduct our business effectively and to provide competitive customer services and thereby have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. We cannot provide assurance that existing laws or regulations will not be revised or that new more restrictive laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us. For example, federal safety rules on truck driver work hours were reissued on October 1, 2005. These rules, among other things, increased the time that truck drivers must rest while off duty and decreased the total time that truck drivers could be on duty. In addition, a federal consumer protection statute enacted on August 20, 2005, deals with consumer moving transactions, and changed, among other things, the requirements relating to estimation and collection practices of movers. We cannot provide assurance that new, more restrictive laws or regulations, including these rules and regulations, will not materially and adversely affect our productivity and efficiency. We also cannot provide assurance that we will be able to recover from our customers any or all increased costs of compliance or that our business and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected by these or future changes in applicable laws and regulations.. Furthermore, in the United States, the Van Lines have been participants in certain collective activities, including collective rate-making with other motor carriers pursuant to an exemption from the antitrust laws as currently set forth in The Motor Carrier Act of 1980. In May 2007, the STB issued a decision terminating its approval of the rate agreements of all motor carrier rate bureaus that authorize the bureaus' carriers to engage in collective rate-making activities. As a result, this decision removed the exemption from antitrust laws the moving services industry has previously operated under, effective September 4, 2007. The loss of this exemption could result in an adverse effect on our operations or financial condition.. Any difficulties with our information systems or our information systems providers could delay or disrupt our ability to service our customers and impair our competitiveness.. Sophisticated information systems are vital to our ability to manage and monitor the flow of goods that we are transporting and to provide relocation services. As these systems continue to rapidly evolve,. 20. we will need to continually enhance them. We may encounter difficulties in enhancing these systems or in integrating new technology into our systems in a timely and cost-effective manner. These difficulties could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to operate efficiently and to provide competitive customer service.. To compete effectively, we must anticipate and adapt to technological changes and offer, on a timely basis, competitively priced services that meet evolving industry standards and customer preferences. We may choose new technologies that later prove to be inadequate or may be forced to implement new technologies at substantial cost to remain competitive. In addition, competitors may implement new technologies before we do, allowing them to provide lower priced or enhanced services and superior quality compared to those we provide. The above circumstances could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to compete.. In the United States, one third-party vendor provides 82% of our domestic moving services application software development. Another third-party vendor provides 53% of our domestic moving services information systems infrastructure, as well as the infrastructure support for the financial system used by our domestic relocation and moving services operations and corporate support functions. We provide information systems infrastructure and our application software development resources for Global Relocation Services. In Europe and the Asia Pacific region, the information systems infrastructure and application software development are provided through a combination of third-party vendors and company-owned networks and employees. While we have a disaster recovery plan in conjunction with these vendors, we can provide no assurance that the plan will be adequate in the event of an actual disaster. Adverse conditions affecting the financial condition and other important aspects of these vendors' operations may adversely affect our ability to operate efficiently or to continue operations under certain adverse conditions.. We depend on our highly trained executive officers and employees. Any loss of these employees or any difficulty in hiring equally qualified employees could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. Our operations are managed by a small number of key executive officers. The loss of any of these individuals could have a materially adverse effect on us. In addition, our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, recruit and retain sufficient qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain senior management, integrate new managers or recruit qualified personnel in the future.. Fuel is a significant cost element in the trucking transportation industry. Fuel prices are currently high and may continue to rise. Fuel prices and the availability of fuel have been subject to volatility in the past.. We utilize numerous trucks and tractor trailers that depend on fuel in the performance of day-to-day services in the household goods and office moving lines of our business, which are parts of our Moving Services North America and Moving Services Europe and Asia Pacific segments. We often employ the services of third-party transportation providers, particularly owner-operators in the U.S. domestic moving business, who also depend on fuel and, as a result, are subject to variations in fuel prices. We cannot provide assurance that fuel prices will remain stable or that supplies of fuel will always be available. Should costs escalate, we may be unable to fully recover the cost increase by increasing the price for our services. Third parties who provide transportation services to us may be unwilling to continue to do so without an increase in compensation. As a result, our operating margins could decrease, thereby adversely affecting our profitability.. Contingent or future environmental liabilities could cause us to incur significant costs and adversely affect our operations.. We are subject to a wide range of environmental laws and regulations under the foreign, U.S., state and local laws that govern our operations. Among other things, these requirements regulate. 21. discharges of pollutants into the water, air and land, the use, management and disposal of hazardous substances, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. In certain European locations, we are required to recycle specified portions of our waste products. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal penalties, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or the reduction or suspension of our operations as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws or non-compliance with the environmental permits required at our facilities. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present or former sites, principally in connection with historical operations. In addition, we own or lease, or in the past have owned or leased, facilities at which underground storage tanks are located, some of which have leaked in the past. We have been, and may in the future be responsible for, investigating and remediating contamination at these sites, or at off-site locations where we sent hazardous wastes for disposal. While we regularly make capital and operating expenditures to stay in compliance with environmental laws, future or contingent environmental liabilities, including remediation costs, could have a material effect on our business. See Item 1, \"Business - Environmental Matters.\". Our business is highly seasonal, which leads to fluctuations in our operating results and working capital needs.. The relocation and moving businesses are highly seasonal due to the increase in moving activity during the summer months. Our results of operations and cash flow fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to the higher shipment and home closing amounts experienced in the summer months. Certain of our operating expenses are fixed and cannot be reduced during the fall and winter months, when there is decreased demand for relocation and moving services. If we are unable to capitalize on the peak summer season or successfully manage the decreased activity during other parts of the year, our annual performance may be materially adversely affected. The seasonal nature of the relocation and moving businesses results in increased short-term working capital requirements in summer months.. Our owner-operators are currently not considered to be employees by taxing and other regulatory authorities. Should these authorities change their position and consider our owner-operators to be our employees, our costs related to our tax, unemployment compensation and workers' compensation obligations could increase significantly.. From time-to-time, certain parties, including the Internal Revenue Service, state authorities and the owner-operators themselves, have sought to assert that owner-operators in the trucking industry are employees rather than independent contractors. To date, these parties have not been successful in making these assertions against us. We consider all of our owner-operators to be independent contractors. We cannot provide assurance that tax authorities will not successfully challenge this position, that interpretations supporting our position will not change, or that federal and state tax or other applicable laws will not change. If owner-operators were deemed to be employees, our costs related to tax, unemployment compensation and workers' compensation could increase significantly. In addition, these changes may be applied retroactively, and if so we may be required to pay additional amounts to compensate for prior periods.. Our common stock has been delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") and currently is quoted on the Pink Sheets, which may impair the market price and liquidity of our common stock and result in adverse business consequences.. As a result of our failure to maintain certain standards for continued listing on the NYSE, on November 14, 2007, the NYSE notified us that it would suspend trading in our common stock as of November 26, 2007 and commence delisting proceedings. Due to the NYSE's delisting of our common stock, our common stock is now quoted on the Pink Sheets, a quotation service that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities, published by Pink Sheets, LLC.. 22. Stocks trading on the over-the-counter market are typically less liquid. Because our common stock is quoted on the Pink Sheets, the liquidity of our common stock may be impaired, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, and coverage by security analysts and the news media, if any, of our company. Consequently, prices for shares of our common stock may be different than might otherwise prevail if our common stock were quoted or traded on a national securities exchange. In addition, prices for securities quoted solely on the Pink Sheets may be difficult to obtain, and stockholders may find it difficult to resell their shares of common stock. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE and its quotation on the Pink Sheets may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities.. Finally, upon our emergence from bankruptcy, current holders of our common stock and other equity interests will not receive any distributions under the Plan. These equity interests would be cancelled upon the effectiveness of the proposed Plan. Accordingly, we urge that caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in SIRVA's equity securities and any of SIRVA's liabilities or other securities.. Any \"ownership change\" could limit our ability to utilize our net operating losses carryforwards.. Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (\"Internal Revenue Code\"), a corporation is generally allowed a deduction in any taxable year for net operating losses carried over from prior years. As of February 5, 2008, we had approximately $380 million of federal and state net operating loss carryforwards.. A corporation's use of its net operating loss carryforwards is generally limited under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change.\" When an \"ownership change\" occurs pursuant to the implementation of a plan of reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code, the general limitation under section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code may not apply if certain requirements are satisfied under either section 382(l)(5) or section 382(l)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code. We will experience an \"ownership change\" in connection with the Plan, but we have not yet determined whether we will be eligible for or rely on the special rule under section 382(l)(5) or the special rule under section 382(l)(6). Assuming we rely on section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code, a second \"ownership change\" within two years from the effective date of the Plan would eliminate completely our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryovers. Regardless of whether we rely on section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code, an \"ownership change\" after the effective date of the Plan could significantly limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards for taxable years including or following such \"ownership change.\". Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests.. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions include:. <U+0095>authorization of the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors;   <U+0095>establishment of a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms;   <U+0095>provisions giving the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors;   <U+0095>limitation on the ability of stockholders to remove directors;. 23. <U+0095>prohibition on stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders;   <U+0095>establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and   <U+0095>requirement of the approval by the holders of at least 75% of our outstanding common stock for the amendment of our by-laws and provisions of our certificate of incorporation governing:    <U+0095>the classified board of directors,   <U+0095>the removal of directors only for cause by holders of at least 75% of our outstanding common stock,   <U+0095>the liability of directors, and   <U+0095>the elimination of stockholder actions by written consent.. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions may facilitate management entrenchment that may delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders.. The international scope of our operations may adversely affect our business.. We face certain risks because we conduct an international business, including:. <U+0095>restrictions on foreign ownership of subsidiaries;   <U+0095>compliance with import/export and customs laws of the United States and other countries;   <U+0095>tariffs and other trade barriers;   <U+0095>political risks; and   <U+0095>potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions.. In addition, an adverse change in laws or administrative practices in countries within which we operate or where our information systems support and application software development is performed could have a materially adverse effect on us.. We are exposed to currency fluctuations, which may have an adverse effect on us.. Approximately 11.0% of our revenues are from operations outside of the United States. These revenues are denominated in the local currency of the country in which our international subsidiaries own their primary assets. Although the majority of expenses are incurred in the same currency in which corresponding revenues are generated, we are exposed to fluctuation in foreign currencies in the translation of the applicable currencies into U.S. dollars. We utilize foreign currency forward contracts in the regular course of business to manage our exposure against foreign currency fluctuations; however, we will not utilize any new contracts after existing contracts expire in early 2008.. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS"
