[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors and warnings before making an investment decision.  The risks described below are not the only ones facing SJW Group and its subsidiaries.  Additional risks that SJW Group and its subsidiaries does not yet know of or that it currently thinks are immaterial may also impair its business operations.  If any of the following risks actually occur, SJW Group and its subsidiaries' business, operating results or financial condition could be materially harmed.  In such case, the trading price of SJW Group and its subsidiaries' common stock could decline and you may lose part or all of your investment.  Investors should also refer to the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto.. Our business is regulated and may be adversely affected by changes to the regulatory environment.. San Jose Water Company and CLWSC are regulated public utilities.  The operating revenue of San Jose Water Company and CLWSC is generated primarily from the sale of water at rates authorized by the CPUC and the PUCT, respectively.  The CPUC and PUCT set rates that are intended to provide revenues sufficient to recover normal operating expenses, provide funds for replacement of water infrastructure and produce a fair and reasonable return on stockholder common equity.  Please refer to Part I, Item 1, \"Regulation and Rates\" for a discussion of the most recent regulatory proceedings affecting the rates of San Jose Water Company and CLWSC.  Consequently, our revenue and operating results depend upon the rates which the CPUC and PUCT authorize.. In our applications for rate approvals, we rely upon estimates and forecasts to propose rates for approval by the CPUC or PUCT.  No assurance can be given that our estimates and forecasts will be accurate or that the CPUC or PUCT will agree with our estimates and forecasts and approve our proposed rates.  To the extent our authorized rates may be too low, revenues may be insufficient to cover Water Utility Services' operating expenses, capital requirements and SJW Group's historical dividend rate.  In addition, delays in approving rate increases may negatively affect our operating results and our operating cash flows.. In addition, policies and regulations promulgated by the regulators govern the recovery of capital expenditures, the treatment of gains from the sale of real utility property, the offset of production and operating costs, the recovery of the cost of debt, the optimal equity structure, and the financial and operational flexibility to engage in non-tariffed operations.  If the regulators implement policies and regulations that will not allow San Jose Water Company and CLWSC to accomplish some or all of the items listed above, Water Utility Services' future operating results may be adversely affected.  Further, from time to time, the commissioners at the CPUC and the PUCT may change.  Such changes could lead to changes in policies and. 10. regulations and there can be no assurance that the resulting changes in policies and regulation, if any, will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law.  The Tax Act includes significant reform of the current income tax code including lowering the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.. The SEC issued guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (\"SAB 118\") which provides for up to a one year period in which to complete the required analysis and income tax accounting for the Tax Act.  SAB 118 describes three scenarios associated with a company's status of accounting for income tax reform (1) a company is complete with its accounting for certain effects of tax reform, (2) a company is able to determine a reasonable estimate for certain effects of tax reform and records that estimate as a provisional amount, or (3) a company is not able to determine a reasonable estimate and therefore continues to apply the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to the Tax Act being effective.. In accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"GAAP\"), SJW Group has recorded the revaluation of deferred taxes and related impacts using the new corporate tax rate in its December 31, 2017 consolidated financial statements.  The amounts recorded are based on information known and reasonable estimates used as of December 31, 2017, but are subject to change based on a number of factors, including further actions of regulators, SJW Group filing its tax returns for the year ended December 31, 2017, and completion of SJW Group's interim and annual consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2018.. Furthermore, the CPUC has directed us to establish a memorandum account to capture all the impacts of the Tax Act, including the benefit of the reduction in the federal statutory income tax rate on regulated revenue requirement.  The CPUC has also indicated that the net benefit of Tax Act should be passed on to the ratepayers.  San Jose Water Company has established a memorandum account to capture the tax benefit and expenses related to the Tax Act.  The memorandum account is subject to review and approval by the CPUC.  The PUCT has directed water utilities, including CLWSC, to report the difference between revenues collected under existing rates and revenues that would have been collected had existing rates been set using the new federal statutory income tax rate.  The PUCT has indicated they may require regulated entities to file a new rate case if it is determined that they are earning more than their authorized revenue requirement.. If the CPUC disagrees with our calculation of the memorandum account or the CPUC or PUCT disagrees with our implementation of the rules and regulation under the Tax Act, we may be required to make adjustments that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Recovery of regulatory assets is subject to adjustment by the regulatory agency and could impact the operating results of Water Utility Services.. Generally accepted accounting principles for water utilities include the recognition of regulatory assets and liabilities as permitted by FASB ASC Topic 980 - \"Regulated Operations.\"  In accordance with ASC Topic 980, Water Utility Services record deferred costs and credits on the balance sheet as regulatory assets and liabilities when it is probable that these costs and credits will be recovered in the ratemaking process in a period different from when the costs and credits were incurred.  Please refer to Note 1 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" for a summary of net regulatory assets.  If the assessment of the probability of recovery in the ratemaking process is incorrect and the applicable ratemaking body determines that a deferred cost is not recoverable through future rate increases, the regulatory assets or liabilities would need to be adjusted, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, as a result the enactment of the Tax Act, the Water Utility Services are required to re-evaluate and re-assess their deferred tax assets and liabilities in future periods.  Please refer to Note 5 of the \"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements\" for a discussion on the effect of the Tax Act on net regulatory assets.  Such re-evaluation may reduce our ability to realize deferred tax balances, which may adversely affect our cash flow or increase our tax liabilities.. Changes in water supply, water supply costs or the mix of water supply could adversely affect the operating results and business of Water Utility Services.. San Jose Water Company's supply of water primarily relies upon three main sources: water purchased from SCVWD, surface water from its Santa Cruz Mountains watershed, and pumped underground water.  Changes and variations in quantities from each of these three sources affect the overall mix of the water supply, thereby affecting the cost of the water supply.  Surface water is the least costly source of water.  If there is an adverse change to the mix of water supply and San Jose Water Company is not allowed by the CPUC to recover the additional or increased water supply costs, its operating results may be adversely affected.. SCVWD receives an allotment of water from state and federal water projects.  If San Jose Water Company has difficulties obtaining a high quality water supply from SCVWD due to availability, environmental, legal or other restrictions (see also Part I, Item 1, \"Water Supply\"), it may not be able to fully satisfy customer demand in its service area and its operating results and business may be adversely affected.  Additionally, the availability of water from San Jose Water Company's Santa Cruz Mountains watershed depends on the weather and fluctuates with each season.  In a normal year, surface water supply provides 6% to 8% of the total water supply of the system.  In a season with little rainfall, such as the record. 11. drought conditions in 2015 and most of 2016, water supply from surface water sources may be low, thereby causing San Jose Water Company to increase the amount of water purchased from outside sources at a higher cost than surface water, thus increasing water production expenses.  When drought conditions occur, we may be required to rely more heavily on purchased water than surface water, which would increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, San Jose Water Company's ability to use surface water is subject to regulations regarding water quality and volume limitations.  If new regulations are imposed or existing regulations are changed or given new interpretations, the availability of surface water may be materially reduced.  A reduction in surface water could result in the need to procure more costly water from other sources, thereby increasing overall water production expenses and adversely affecting our operating results.. Because the extraction of water from the groundwater basin and the operation of the water distribution system require a significant amount of energy, increases in energy prices could increase operating expenses of San Jose Water Company.  The cost of energy is beyond our control and can change unpredictably and substantially based on load supply and demand.  Therefore, San Jose Water Company cannot be certain that it will be able to contain energy costs into the future.. San Jose Water Company continues to utilize Pacific Gas & Electric's time of use rate schedules to minimize its overall energy costs primarily for groundwater pumping.  Optimization and energy management efficiency is achieved through the implementation of software applications that control pumps based on demand and cost of energy.  An increase in demand or a reduction in the availability of surface water or import water could result in the need to pump more water during peak hours which may adversely affect the operating results of San Jose Water Company.. San Jose Water Company has been granted certain balancing accounts by the CPUC to track various water supply expenses and revenues.  There is no assurance that the CPUC will allow recovery or refund of these balances when submitted by San Jose Water Company.. CLWSC's primary water supply is 6,900 acre-feet of water which is pumped from Canyon Lake at three lake intakes or delivered as treated water from GBRA's Western Canyon Pipeline, in accordance with the terms of its contracts with the GBRA, which are long-term take-or-pay contracts.  This supply is supplemented by groundwater pumped from wells.  While the contract provides a committed long-term water supply for future demand, CLWSC customers currently do not use the volume of water allowed under the contracts which increases the cost of water for existing customers, and there is no assurance that future demands up to the committed supply volume will occur.  Texas faces long-term water supply constraints similar to California as described above.  (See also Part I, Item 1, \"Water Supply\").. Fluctuations in customer demand for water due to seasonality, restrictions of use, weather, and lifestyle can adversely affect operating results.. Water Utility Services' operations are seasonal, thus quarterly fluctuation in results of operations may be significant.  Rainfall and other weather conditions also affect the operations of Water Utility Services.  Water consumption typically increases during the third quarter of each year when weather tends to be warm and dry.  In periods of drought, if customers are encouraged or required to conserve water due to a shortage of water supply or restriction of use, revenue tends to be lower.  Similarly, in unusually wet periods, water supply tends to be higher and customer demand tends to be lower, again resulting in lower revenues.  Furthermore, certain lifestyle choices made by customers can affect demand for water.  For example, a significant portion of residential water use is for outside irrigation of lawns and landscaping.  If there is a decreased desire by customers to maintain landscaping for their homes or restrictions are placed on outside irrigation, residential water demand would decrease, which would result in lower revenues.. Conservation efforts and construction codes, which require the use of low-flow plumbing fixtures, could diminish water consumption and result in reduced revenue.  In addition, in time of drought, water conservation may become a regulatory requirement that impacts the water usage of our customers.  For example, in response to the severe drought in California in 2015 and 2016, the SCVWD extended their call for 30% conservation and restrictions on outdoor watering of ornamental landscapes two days a week through June 30, 2016.  While the drought condition improved in late 2016 and 2017, the SCVWD reduced its conservation target from 30% to 20% and also increased the number of outdoor watering days from two to three effective July 1, 2016 through January 31, 2017.  On January 24, 2017, the SCVWD maintained their call for 20% conservation and restrictions on outdoor watering for ornamental landscapes to no more than three days a week, effective February 1, 2017.  On June 13, 2017, the SCVWD adopted Resolution 17-43 to encourage making water conservation a way of life in California through recommendations on watering schedules and a call for customers to achieve a 20% reduction in water use as compared to 2013.  (See also Part I, Item 1, \"Water Supply\").. The implementation of mandatory conservation measures has resulted and is expected to result in lower water usage by our customers which may adversely affect our results of operation.  If the current conservation measures continue, or if new measures are imposed in response to drought conditions in the future, we may experience fluctuations in the timing of or a reduction in customer revenue.  Furthermore, while the CPUC approved WCMA memorandum accounts which would allow us to recover revenue reductions due to water conservation activities and certain conservation related costs, such memorandum accounts are subject to a review and approval process by the CPUC, which can be lengthy, and there is no assurance that we. 12. will be able to recover in a timely manner all or some of the revenue and costs recorded in the memorandum accounts.  If drought conditions ease and the State Water Resources Control Board and the SCVWD no longer mandate water conservation, the Company may no longer be allowed to recover revenue lost due to continued conservation activities under the WCMA account and would therefore be exposed to differences between actual and authorized usage.  This could result in lower revenues.. A contamination event or other decline in source water quality could affect the water supply of Water Utility Services and therefore adversely affect our business and operating results.. Water Utility Services is required under environmental regulations to comply with water quality requirements.  Through water quality compliance programs, Water Utility Services continually monitors for contamination and pollution of its sources of water.  In addition, a watershed management program provides a proactive approach to minimize potential contamination activities.  There can be no assurance that Water Utility Services will continue to comply with all applicable water quality requirements.  In the event a contamination is detected, Water Utility Services must either commence treatment to remove the contaminant or procure water from an alternative source.  Either of these results may be costly, may increase future capital expenditures and there can be no assurance that the regulators would approve a rate increase to enable us to recover the costs arising from such remedies.  In addition, we could be held liable for consequences arising from hazardous substances in our water supplies or other environmental damages.  Our insurance policies may not cover or may not be sufficient to cover the costs of these claims.. Water Utility Services is subject to litigation risks concerning water quality and contamination.. Although Water Utility Services has not been and is not a party to any environmental and product-related lawsuits, there is no guarantee that such lawsuits will not occur in the future.  If Water Utility Services is subject to an environmental or product-related lawsuit, they might incur significant legal costs and it is uncertain whether it would be able to recover the legal costs from ratepayers or other third parties.  Although Water Utility Services has liability insurance coverage for bodily injury and property damage, pollution liability is excluded from this coverage and our excess liability coverage.  A pollution liability policy is in place, but is subject to exclusions and limitations.  Costs for defense are included within the limit of insurance on the pollution liability policy.  In addition, any complaints or lawsuits against us based on water quality and contamination may receive negative publicity that can damage our reputation and adversely affect our business and trading price of our common stock.. Water Utility Services is subject to possible litigation or regulatory enforcement action concerning water discharges to WOTUS.. Regulatory actions and fines related to discharges of water to WOTUS against other water utilities have increased in frequency in recent years.  If Water Utility Services is subject to a litigation or regulatory enforcement action, it might incur significant costs in fines and restoration efforts, and it is uncertain whether Water Utility Services would be able to recover some or all of such costs from ratepayers or other third parties.  In addition, any litigation or regulatory action against us regarding a water discharge and/or resulting environmental impact may receive negative publicity that can damage our reputation and adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock.. New or more stringent environmental regulations could increase Water Utility Services' operating costs and affect its business.. Water Utility Services' operations are subject to water quality and pollution control regulations issued by the EPA and environmental laws and regulations administered by the respective states and local regulatory agencies.. New or more stringent environmental and water quality regulations could increase Water Utility Services' water quality compliance costs, hamper Water Utility Services' available water supplies, and increase future capital expenditure.. Under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, Water Utility Services is subject to regulation by the EPA relating to the quality of water it sells and treatment techniques it uses to make the water potable.  The EPA promulgates nationally applicable standards, including maximum contaminant levels for drinking water.  Water Utility Services is currently in compliance with all of the primary maximum contaminant levels promulgated to date.  Additional or more stringent requirements may be adopted by each state.  There can be no assurance that Water Utility Services will be able to continue to comply with all water quality requirements.. Water Utility Services has implemented monitoring activities and installed specific water treatment improvements in order to comply with existing maximum contaminant levels and plan for compliance with future drinking water regulations.  However, the EPA and the respective state agencies have continuing authority to issue additional regulations under the Safe Drinking Water Act.  New or more stringent environmental standards could be imposed that will raise Water Utility Services' operating costs, including requirements for increased monitoring, additional treatment of underground water supplies, fluoridation of all supplies, more stringent performance standards for treatment plants and procedures to further reduce levels of. 13. disinfection by-products.  There are currently limited regulatory mechanisms and procedures available to the Company for the recovery of such costs and there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered.. Water Utility Services rely on information technology and systems that are key to business operations.  A system malfunction, security breach, cyber attacks or other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which could adversely affect business operations.. Information technology is key to the operation of Water Utility Services, including but not limited to payroll, general ledger activities, outsourced bill preparation and remittance processing, providing customer service and the use of Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition systems to operate our distribution system.  Among other things, system malfunctions, computer viruses and security breaches could prevent us from operating or monitoring our facilities, billing and collecting cash accurately and timely analysis of financial results.  In addition, we collect, process, and store sensitive data from our customers and employees, including personally identifiable information, on our networks.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed without our authorization, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen which could result in legal claims or proceedings, violation of privacy laws or damage to our reputation and customer relationships.  Our profitability and cash flow could be affected negatively in the event these systems do not operate effectively or are breached.  In addition, we may not be able to develop or acquire information technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our business, and we may lack sufficient resources to make the necessary upgrades or replacements of our outdated existing technology to allow us to continue to operate at our current level of efficiency.. The water utility business requires significant capital expenditures that are dependent on our ability to secure appropriate funding.  If SJW Group is unable to generate sufficient operating cash flows and obtain sufficient capital or if the rates at which we borrow increase, there would be a negative impact on our results of operations.. The water utility business is capital-intensive.  Expenditure levels for renewal and modernization of the system will grow at an increasing rate as components reach the end of their useful lives.  SJW Group funds capital expenditures through a variety of sources, including cash received from operations, funds received from developers as contributions or advances, borrowings through the lines of credit, and equity or debt financing.  We cannot provide any assurance that the historical sources of funds for capital expenditures will continue to be adequate or that the cost of funds will remain at levels permitting us to earn a reasonable rate of return.  A significant change in any of the funding sources could impair the ability of Water Utility Services to fund its capital expenditures, which could impact our ability to grow our utility asset base and earnings.  Any increase in the cost of capital through higher interest rates or otherwise could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our ability to raise capital through equity or debt may be affected by the economy and condition of the debt and equity markets.  Disruptions in the capital and credit markets or deteriorations in the strength of financial institutions could adversely affect SJW Group's ability to draw on its line of credit, issue long-term debt or sell its equity.  In addition, government policies, the state of the credit markets and other factors could result in increased interest rates, which would increase SJW Group's cost of capital.  Furthermore, equity financings may result in dilution to our existing stockholders and debt financings may contain covenants that restrict the actions of SJW Group and its subsidiaries.  The Company's senior note borrowings include certain affirmative covenants regarding a maximum debt to equity ratio and an interest coverage requirement.  In the event the Company exceeds the maximum debt to equity ratio or interest coverage requirement, we may be restricted from issuing future debt.  In addition, the pollution control revenue bonds issued on behalf of the Company contain affirmative and negative covenants customary for a loan agreement relating to revenue bonds, including, among other things, certain disclosure obligations, the tax exempt status of the interest on the bonds, and limitations and prohibitions on the transfer of projects funded by the loan proceeds and assignment of the loan agreement.  In the event the Company violates any of these covenants, an event of default may occur and all amounts due under such bonds may be called by the Trustee, which would have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial conditions.. We operate in areas subject to natural disasters or that may be the target of terrorist activities.. We operate in areas that are prone to earthquakes, fires and other natural disasters.  A significant seismic event in northern California, where the majority of our operations are concentrated, or other natural disaster in northern California or Texas could adversely impact our ability to deliver water to our customers and our costs of operations.  A major disaster could damage or destroy substantial capital assets.  Our California and Texas based regulators have historically allowed utilities to establish catastrophic event memorandum accounts as a possible mechanism to recover costs.  However, we can give no assurance that our regulators, or any other commission would allow any such cost recovery mechanism in the future.. In light of the potential threats to the nation's health and security due to terrorist attacks, we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply.  We have also tightened our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business.  We have and will continue to bear increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies.  These costs may be significant.. 14. While some of these costs are likely to be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that the CPUC and PUCT will approve a rate increase to recover all or part of such costs and, as a result, the Company's operating results and business may be adversely affected.  Further, despite these tightened security measures, we may not be in a position to control the outcome of terrorist events should they occur.. A failure of our reservoirs, storage tanks, mains or distribution networks could result in losses and damages that may adversely affect our financial condition and reputation.. We distribute water through an extensive network of mains and store water in reservoirs and storage tanks located across our service areas.  A substantial portion of Water Utility Services distribution system was constructed during the period from 1945 to 1980.  A failure of major mains, reservoirs, or tanks could result in injuries and damage to residential and/or commercial property for which we may be responsible, in whole or in part.  The failure of major mains, reservoirs or tanks may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our water distribution network in order to conduct repairs.  Such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water delivery requirements prescribed by governmental regulators, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and reputation.  Any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates.. SJW Land Company has real estate holdings that are subject to various business and investment risks.. SJW Land Company owns real estate in two states.  The risks in investing directly in real estate vary depending on the investment strategy and investment objective and include the following:. • Liquidity risk - real estate investments are illiquid.  The lag time to build or reduce the real estate portfolio is long.. • Obsolescence risk - real estate property is location specific.  Location obsolescence can occur due to a decline of a particular sub-market or neighborhood.  Functional obsolescence can also occur from physical depreciation, wear and tear, and other architectural and physical features which could be curable or incurable.. • Market and general economic risks - real estate investment is tied to overall domestic economic growth and, therefore, carries market risk which cannot be eliminated by diversification.  Generally, all property types benefit from national economic growth, though the benefits range according to local factors, such as local supply and demand and job creation.  Because real estate leases are typically staggered and last for multiple years, there is generally a delayed effect in the performance of real estate in relation to the overall economy.  This delayed effect can insulate or deteriorate the financial impact to SJW Land Company in a downturn or an improved economic environment.. Vacancy rates can climb and market rents can be impacted and weakened by general economic forces, therefore affecting income to SJW Land Company.. The value of real estate can drop materially due to a deflationary market, decline in rental income, market cycle of supply and demand, long lag time in real estate development, legislative and governmental actions, environmental concerns, increases in rates of returns demanded by investors, and fluctuation of interest rates, eroding any unrealized capital appreciation and, potentially, invested capital.. A drop in the value of a real estate property or increase in vacancy could result in reduced future cash flows to amounts below the property's current carrying value and could result in an impairment charge.. • Concentration/Credit risk - the risk of a tenant declaring bankruptcy and seeking relief from its contractual rental obligation could affect the income and the financial results of SJW Land Company.  This risk is most prevalent in a recessionary environment.. The success of SJW Land Company's real estate investment strategy depends largely on ongoing local, state and federal land use development activities and regulations, future economic conditions, the development and fluctuations in the sale of the undeveloped properties, the ability to identify the developer/potential buyer of the available-for-sale real estate, the timing of the transaction, favorable tax law, and the ability to maintain and manage portfolio properties.  There is no guarantee that we will be able to execute the strategy successfully and failure to do so may aversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends.. Dividends on our common stock will only be paid if and when declared by our Board of Directors.  Our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, applicable regulations and other factors, including the timeliness and adequacy of rate increases, will determine both our ability to pay dividends on common stock and the amount of the dividends declared by our. 15. Board of Directors.  There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or, if dividends are paid, that they will be in amounts similar to past dividends.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control.. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future based on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control and unrelated to our financial results.  Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include volatility of the general stock market or the utility index, regulatory developments, general economic conditions and trends, actual or anticipated changes or fluctuations in our results of operations, actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts, actual or anticipated developments in our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally, litigation involving us or our industry, and major catastrophic events or sales of large blocks of our stock.  Furthermore, we believe that stockholders invest in public stocks in part because they seek reliable dividend payments.  If there is an over supply of stock of public utilities in the market relative to demand by such investors, the trading price of our common stock may decrease.  Additionally, if interest rates rise above the dividend yield offered by our common stock, demand for our stock and its trading price may also decrease.. Our business strategy, which includes acquiring water systems and expanding non-tariffed services, will expose us to new risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business strategy focuses on the following:. (1)Regional regulated water utility operations;. (2) Regional non-tariffed water utility related services provided in accordance with the guidelines established by the CPUC in California and the PUCT in Texas; and. (3)Out-of-region water and utility related services.. As part of our pursuit of the above three strategic areas, we consider from time to time opportunities to acquire businesses and assets.  However, we cannot be certain we will be successful in identifying and consummating any strategic business combination or acquisitions relating to such opportunities.  In addition, the execution of our business strategy will expose us to different risks than those associated with the current utility operations.  We expect to incur costs in connection with the execution of this strategy and any integration of an acquired business could involve significant costs, the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities related to the acquired assets, the diversion of management's time and resources, the potential for a negative impact on SJW Group's financial position and operating results, entering markets in which SJW Group has no or limited direct prior experience and the potential loss of key employees of any acquired company.  Any future strategic combination or acquisition we decide to undertake may also impact our ability to finance our business, affect our compliance with regulatory requirements, and impose additional burdens on our operations.  Any businesses we acquire may not achieve sales, customer growth and projected profitability that would justify the investment.  Any difficulties we encounter in the integration process, including the integration of controls necessary for internal control and financial reporting, could interfere with our operations, reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our internal controls.  SJW Group cannot be certain that any transaction will be successful or that it will not materially harm operating results or our financial condition.. We must continue to attract and retain qualified technical and managerial personnel in order to succeed.. Our future success depends largely upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, operational and financial managers.  There is a significant competition for such personnel in our industry.  The loss of the services of any member of our management team or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, as our management team has knowledge of our industry and customers and would be difficult to replace.  We try to ensure that we offer competitive compensation and benefits as well as opportunities for continued development, and we continually strive to recruit and train qualified personnel and retain key employees.  There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to grow and operate profitably.. Adverse investment returns and other factors may increase our pension costs and pension plan funding requirements.. A substantial number of our employees are covered by a defined benefit pension plan.  Our pension costs and the funded status of the plan are affected by a number of factors including the discount rate, applicable mortality tables, mortality rates of plan participants, investment returns on plan assets, and pension reform legislation.  Any change in such factors could result in an increase in future pension costs and an increase in our pension liability, requiring an increase in plan contributions which may adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our business and operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, 234 of our 411 total employees were union employees.  Most of our unionized employees are represented by the Utility Workers of America, except certain employees in the engineering department who are represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers.. 16. We may experience difficulties and delays in the collective bargaining process to reach suitable agreements with union employees, particularly in light of increasing healthcare and pension costs.  In addition, changes in applicable law and regulations could have an adverse effect on management's negotiating position with the unions.  Labor actions, work stoppages or the threat of work stoppages, and our failure to obtain favorable labor contract terms during future negotiations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also make it more difficult for stockholders to influence our policies or may reduce the rights of stockholders.. In November 2016, SJW Group changed its state of incorporation from California to Delaware.  SJW Group's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of SJW Group.  These provisions could also make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions.  These provisions include but are not limited to the following:. • Authorizing Board of Directors to issue \"blank check\" preferred stock;. • Prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • Limiting the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders to only stockholders holding not less than 20% of outstanding voting power; and. • Requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by stockholders of SJW Group to replace or remove its current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of the Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of management.  In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law (\"DGCL\") govern SJW Group.  These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time without the consent of the Board of Directors.. Furthermore, SJW Group's Certificate of Incorporation provides that a state or federal court located within Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum (unless the company consents in writing to the selection of an alternate forum) for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of SJW Group, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of SJW Group to the company or its stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  Such \"exclusive forum\" provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with SJW Group or its directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees."
