[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following are important risks which could adversely affect our future results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently do not deem material may also impair our business operations. If any of the risks we describe below occur, or if any unforeseen risk develops, our operating results may suffer, our financial condition may deteriorate, the trading price of our common stock may decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment in us.. Risks Related to Our Operations. We may experience a shortage of pilots which may negatively affect our operations and financial condition.. On July 8, 2013, as directed by the U.S. Congress, the FAA issued more stringent pilot qualification and crew member flight training standards, which increase the required training time for new commercial pilots. With these changes, the supply of qualified pilot candidates eligible for hiring by the airline industry has been dramatically reduced. Additionally, major airlines may significantly increase the number of pilots hired from regional carriers due to the number of pilots at the major airlines reaching the statutory mandatory retirement age of 65 years.  These factors may cause our pilot attrition rates to be higher than our ability to hire and retain replacement pilots.  If we are unable to maintain a sufficient number of eligible pilots to operate our scheduled flights, we may need to request a reduced flight schedule with our major airline partners, which may result in operational performance penalties under the code-share agreements with those partners and our operations and financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. Additionally, our projected number of available pilots and attrition rates may impact our fleet planning decisions.  If actual pilot availability or our actual pilot attrition rates are materially different than our projections, our operations and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. A shortage of qualified pilots to conduct our operations may cause us to underutilize our aircraft and would negatively impact our operations and financial condition.. Our labor costs, including pilot compensation, may continue to increase.. Labor costs are a significant component of our total expenses. Currently, we believe our labor costs are competitive relative to other regional airlines. However, we cannot provide assurance that our labor costs going forward will remain competitive because of changes in supply and demand for labor in the regional industry. We compete against other airlines and businesses for labor in many highly skilled positions. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, sustain employee engagement in our strategic vision, or if we are unsuccessful at implementing succession plans for our key staff, we may be unable to grow or sustain our business. Attrition beyond normal levels could negatively impact our operating results, increase our training and labor costs and our business prospects could be harmed.. The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009 may continue to negatively affect our operations and financial condition.. The Airline Safety and Pilot Training Improvement Act of 2009 (the \"Improvement Act\") became effective in August 2013. The Improvement Act added new certification requirements for entry - level commercial pilots, requires additional emergency training for airline personnel, improves availability of pilot records and mandates stricter rules to minimize pilot fatigue.. The Improvement Act also:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRequires that all airline pilots obtain an Airline Transport Pilot license, which was previously only required for captains..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tObligates the FAA to maintain a database of pilot records, including records to be provided by airlines and other sources, so that airlines will have access to more information before they hire pilots.. 15. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRequires the FAA to issue new regulations governing the airlines' obligations to submit pilot records and the requirements for airlines to obtain access for information in the database before the database portion of the Improvement Act becomes effective..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tDirects the FAA to rewrite the rules for how long pilots are allowed to work and how much rest they must have before working.. The Improvement Act (and associated regulations) has increased our compliance and FAA reporting obligations, has had a negative effect on pilot scheduling, work hours and the number of pilots required to be employed for our operations or other aspects of our operations, and may continue to negatively impact our operations and financial condition.. We have aircraft lease and debt commitments that extend beyond our existing fixed - fee contractual term on certain aircraft.. Under our fixed - fee arrangements with multiple major airline partners we have a total of 36 CRJ700/CRJ900s with flying contract expirations in 2018 and 2019. Our underlying lease or debt financing obligations associated with each of these aircraft are scheduled to terminate in 2023 and 2024 on an aircraft - by - aircraft basis. We may not be successful in extending the flying contract term on these aircraft with our major airline partner at acceptable economic terms. In the event we are unsuccessful in extending the flying contract terms on these aircraft, we intend to pursue alternative uses for the aircraft over the remaining aircraft financing term including, but not limited to, operating the aircraft with another major carrier under a negotiated code - share agreement, subleasing the aircraft to another operator, and/or marketing the debt financed aircraft for sale. Additionally, we may negotiate an early lease return agreement with the aircraft lessor.  In the event we are unable to extend the flying contract terms for these aircraft at each respective contract's expiration, we may incur cash and non-cash early lease termination costs that would negatively impact our operations and financial condition.  Additionally, in the event we are unable to extend a flying contract with an existing major airline partner, but reach an agreement to place the aircraft into service with a different major airline partner, we likely will incur inefficiencies and incremental costs, such as changing the aircraft livery, which would negatively impact our financial results.. Our business model is dependent on code-share agreements with four major airline partners.. Our business model depends on major airlines electing to contract with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Some regional airlines are owned by a major airline. We have no guarantee that in the future our major airline partners will choose to enter into contracts with us instead of operating their own regional jets. Our major airline partners are not prohibited from doing so under our code - share agreements. A decision by any of our major airline partners to phase out code - share relationships and instead acquire and operate their own regional jets could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. As of December 31, 2017, 541 out of our total 595 aircraft available for scheduled service were operating under a fixed - fee arrangement or a revenue - sharing agreement with either Delta or United. If our code - share relationship with Delta or United were terminated, we would be significantly impacted and likely would not have an immediate source of revenue or earnings to offset such loss. A termination of either of these relationships would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating revenues and net income unless we are able to enter into satisfactory substitute arrangements for the utilization of the affected aircraft by other code - share partners, or, alternatively, obtain the airport facilities and gates and make the other arrangements necessary to fly as an independent airline. We may not be able to enter into substitute code - share arrangements, and any such arrangements we might secure may not be as favorable to us as our current agreements. Operating an airline independent from major airline partners would be a significant departure from our business plan and would likely require significant time and resources, which may not be a  viable alternative.. Additionally, each of our agreements with our major airline partners is subject to certain early termination provisions. For example, Delta's termination rights include the right to terminate the agreements upon the occurrence of certain force majeure events (including certain labor - related events) that prevent SkyWest Airlines from performance. 16. Table of Contents. for certain periods and the right to terminate the agreements if SkyWest Airlines fails to maintain competitive base rate costs, subject to certain rights of SkyWest Airlines to take corrective action to reimburse Delta for lost revenues. United may terminate the SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet United Express Agreements due to an uncured breach by SkyWest Airlines or ExpressJet of certain operational or performance provisions, including measures and standards related to flight completions, baggage handling and on - time arrivals.  We currently use the systems, facilities and services of Delta and United to support a significant portion of our operations, including airport and terminal facilities and operations, information technology support, ticketing and reservations, scheduling, dispatching, fuel purchasing and ground handling services. If Delta or United were to cease to maintain any of these systems, close any of these facilities or no longer provide these services to us, due to termination of one of our code - share agreements, a strike or other labor interruption by Delta or United personnel or for any other reason, we may not be able to obtain alternative systems, facilities or services on terms and conditions as favorable as those we currently receive, or at all. Since our revenues and operating profits are dependent on our level of flight operations, we could then be forced to significantly reduce our operations. Furthermore, upon certain terminations of our code - share agreements, Delta and United could require us to sell or assign to them facilities and assets, including maintenance facilities, we use in connection with the code - share services we provide. As a result, in order to offer airline service after termination of any of our code - share agreements, we may have to replace these facilities, assets and services. We may be unable to arrange such replacements on satisfactory terms, or at all.. There are long - term risks related to supply and demand of regional aircraft associated with our regional airline services strategy.. Our major airline partners have indicated that their committed supply of regional airline capacity is larger than they desire given current market conditions. Specifically, they have identified a general oversupply of 50 - seat regional jets under contractual commitments with regional airlines. Delta in particular has reduced both the number of 50 - seat regional jets within its network and the number of regional airlines with which it contracts. In addition to reducing the number of 50 - seat jets under contract, major airlines have reduced the utilization of regional aircraft, thereby reducing the revenue paid to regional airlines under capacity purchase agreements. This decrease has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our regional airline services revenue and financial results.. Our growth may be limited with our major airline partners' flight systems.. Additional growth opportunities within our major airline partners' flight systems are limited by various factors, including a limited number of regional aircraft each such major airline partner can operate in its regional network due to its own labor agreements. Except as contemplated by our existing code - share agreements, we cannot be sure that our major airline partners will contract with us to fly any additional aircraft. We may not receive additional growth opportunities, or may agree to modifications to our code - share agreements that reduce certain benefits to us in order to obtain additional aircraft, or for other reasons. Given the competitive nature of the airline industry, we believe limited growth opportunities may result in competitors accepting reduced margins and less favorable contract terms in order to secure new or additional code - share operations. Even if we are offered growth opportunities by our major airline partners, those opportunities may involve economic terms or financing commitments that are unacceptable to us. Additionally, our major airline partners may reduce the number of regional jets in their system by not renewing or extending existing flying arrangements with regional operators. Any one or more of these factors may reduce or eliminate our ability to expand our flight operations with our existing major airline partners.. Increases in labor costs, maintenance costs and overhead costs may result in lower operating margins under our fixed-fee contracts.. Under our fixed-fee contracts with Delta, United, American and Alaska, a portion of our compensation is based upon pre - determined rates typically applied to production statistics (such as departures, block hours, flight hours and number of aircraft in service each month). The primary operating costs intended to be compensated by the pre-determined rates include labor costs, including crew training costs, certain aircraft maintenance expenses, and overhead costs.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 85.9% of our code - share operating costs were reimbursable at pre - determined rates and 14.1% of our code - share operating costs were pass - through costs.  Additionally, our aircraft maintenance costs may increase annually as our fleet ages at a higher rate than our pre-. 17. Table of Contents. determined rates allow.  If our operating costs for labor, aircraft maintenance and overhead costs exceed the compensation earned from our pre - determined rates under our fixed - fee arrangements, our financial position and operating results will be negatively affected.. Anticipated fleet reductions with Delta at ExpressJet may result in operating inefficiencies in 2018.. As of December 31, 2017, ExpressJet operated 49 aircraft under the ExpressJet Delta Connection Agreement out of a total of 173 aircraft operated under all of ExpressJet's code-share agreements. During 2017, ExpressJet and Delta mutually agreed to initiate the wind down of the ExpressJet Delta Connection Agreement by the end of 2018. Of the 49 aircraft, ExpressJet anticipates returning 19 leased aircraft to Delta and removing 30 CRJ700 aircraft from service with Delta during 2018. ExpressJet is pursuing placement of the 30 CRJ700 aircraft with other major airline partners, of which eight aircraft are scheduled to be placed under an agreement with American following the removal from service with Delta. We may not be successful in placing the remaining 22 aircraft with other major airline partners on acceptable economic terms, or at all. In the event we are unsuccessful in negotiating flying contracts for these aircraft, we intend to pursue alternative uses for the aircraft over their remaining financing terms including, but not limited to, subleasing the aircraft to another operator, and/or marketing the debt financed aircraft for sale. Although ExpressJet's anticipated fleet reduction in 2018 is consistent with our long-term fleet plans to improve our long-term profitability and reduce fleet risk, we may experience operating inefficiencies and cash and/or non-cash expenses in 2018 in connection with the aircraft reductions. These inefficiencies and expenses may include, but are not limited to, under-utilized facilities and other assets, infrastructure reductions, employee relocation costs or other operational disruptions.  We may also experience inefficiencies while aircraft are temporarily removed from service during a transition period.  Fleet transition expenses and potential operating inefficiencies may negatively impact our financial results.. We are reliant on two aircraft manufacturers and two engine manufacturers.. We operate aircraft manufactured by Bombardier and Embraer.  The issuance of FAA or manufacturer directives restricting or prohibiting the use of any Bombardier or Embraer aircraft types we operate could negatively impact our business and financial results.  We are also dependent upon General Electric and Rolls Royce as the sole manufacturers of engines used on the aircraft we operate.  Our operations could be materially and adversely affected by the failure or inability of Bombardier, Embraer, General Electric or Rolls Royce to provide sufficient parts or related maintenance and support services to us on a timely manner. Additionally, timing of aircraft deliveries could be delayed.. We may experience disruption in service with key third-party service providers.. We rely on outside vendors for a variety of services and functions critical to our business, including airframe and engine maintenance, ground handling, fueling, computer reservation system hosting, telecommunication systems and information technology infrastructure and services.. Even though we strive to formalize agreements with these vendors that define expected service levels, our use of outside vendors increases our exposure to several risks. In the event that one or more vendors goes into bankruptcy, ceases operation or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available at competitive rates, or at all. If one of our vendors fails to perform adequately, we may experience increased costs, delays, maintenance issues, safety issues or negative public perception of our airline. Vendor bankruptcies, unionization, regulatory compliance issues or significant changes in the competitive marketplace among suppliers could adversely affect vendor services or force us to renegotiate existing agreements on less favorable terms. These events could result in disruptions in our operations or increases in our cost structure.. Information technology security breaches, hardware or software failures, or other information technology disruptions may negatively impact our operations or reputation.. The performance and reliability of our technology are critical to our ability to compete effectively. Any internal technological error or failure or large - scale external interruption in the technological infrastructure we depend on, such as power, telecommunications or the internet, may disrupt our internal network. Any individual, sustained or repeated failure of technology could impact our ability to conduct our business and result in increased costs. Our technological systems and related data may be vulnerable to a variety of sources of interruption due to events beyond our control,. 18. Table of Contents. including natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues.. In addition, as a part of our ordinary business operations, we collect and store sensitive data, including personal information of our passengers and employees and information of our business partners. Our information systems are subject to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or information through fraud or other means of deception. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are constantly evolving, and may be difficult to anticipate or to detect for long periods of time. We may not be able to prevent all data security breaches or misuse of data. The compromise of our technology systems resulting in the loss, disclosure, misappropriation of, or access to, customers', employees' or business partners' information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disruption to our operations and damage to our reputation, any or all of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The residual value of our owned aircraft may be less than estimated in our depreciation policies.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $4.2 billion of property and equipment and related assets, net of accumulated depreciation.  In accounting for these long - lived assets, we make estimates about the expected useful lives of the assets, the expected residual values of certain of these assets, and the potential for impairment based on the fair value of the assets and the cash flows they generate.  Factors indicating potential impairment include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in the market value of the long - lived assets, a significant change in the condition of the long - lived assets and operating cash flow losses associated with the use of the long - lived assets.  In the event the estimated residual value of any of our aircraft types is determined to be lower than the residual value assumptions used in our depreciation policies, the applicable aircraft type in our fleet may be impaired and may result in a material reduction in the book value of applicable aircraft types we operate or we may need to prospectively modify our depreciation policies. For example, during 2016 we recorded an impairment of $465.6 million attributable to certain long-lived assets associated with our 50-seat aircraft primarily resulting from changes to our short-term and long-term fleet plans with our 50-seat aircraft. An impairment on any of our aircraft types we operate or an increased level of depreciation expense resulting from a change to our depreciation policies could result in a material negative impact to our financial results.. Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports, due to weather, system malfunctions or for any other reason, could have a material adverse impact on our operations.. We currently operate primarily through hubs across the United States. Nearly all of our flights either originate from or fly into one of these hubs. Our revenues depend primarily on our completion of flights and secondarily on service factors such as timeliness of departure and arrival. Any interruptions or disruptions could, therefore, severely and adversely affect us. Extreme weather such as hurricanes or tornados can cause flight disruptions, and, during periods of storms or adverse weather, our flights may be canceled or significantly delayed. We operate a significant number of flights to and from airports with particular weather difficulties, including Atlanta, Salt Lake City, Chicago, San Francisco, Newark and Denver. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs, due to adverse weather, system malfunctions, security closures or otherwise, could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe adverse impact on our operations and financial performance.. Negative economic or industry conditions may result in reductions to our flight schedules, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our operations and financial condition are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisruptions in the credit markets, which may impact availability of financing;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks or political instability;. 19. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or potential disruptions to U.S. air traffic control systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprice of jet fuel and oil;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toutbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweather and natural disasters.. The effect of any, or some combination, of the foregoing economic and industry conditions on our operations or financial condition is virtually impossible to forecast; however, the occurrence of any or all of such conditions in a significant manner could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition and could cause our major airline partners to reduce the utilization levels of our aircraft under our code-share agreements.. The majority of our code - share agreements set forth minimum levels of flight operations which our major airline partners are required to schedule for our operations and we are required to provide. These minimum flight operating levels are intended to provide a baseline level of expected utilization of aircraft, labor, maintenance facilities and related flight operations support. Historically, our major airline partners have utilized our flight operations at levels which exceed the minimum levels set forth in our code - share agreements, however, the occurrence of any or all of the foregoing economic and industry conditions may cause our major airline partners to reduce our utilization levels. If our major airline partners schedule the utilization of our aircraft below historical levels (including taking into account the route distances and frequency of our scheduled flights), we may not be able to maintain operating efficiencies previously obtained, which would negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, our major airline partners may change routes and frequencies of flights, which can negatively impact our operating efficiencies. Changes in schedules may increase our flight costs, which could exceed the reimbursed rates paid by our major airline partners. Continued reduced utilization levels of our aircraft or other changes to our schedules under our code - share agreements would adversely impact our financial results.. We may experience an increase in fuel prices in our prorate operations.. Dependence on foreign imports of crude oil, limited refining capacity and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. If there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil - producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of jet fuel, there could be a reduction in the supply of jet fuel and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. Additionally, our operations may experience disruptions from temporary fuel shortages by our fuel vendors resulting from fuel quality issues, refueling disruption, or other challenges.   Major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, or a continuation of high fuel prices for a significant period of time, would have a material adverse impact on us.. Pursuant to our fixed - fee arrangements, our major airline partners have agreed to bear the economic risk of fuel price fluctuations on our contracted flights. However, we bear the economic risk of fuel price fluctuations on our prorate operations. As of December 31, 2017, we operated 24 CRJ200s under a prorate agreement with United, 24 CRJ200s under a prorate agreement with Delta, and six CRJ200s under a prorate agreement with American. Our operating and financial results with respect to these prorate arrangements can be negatively affected by the price of jet fuel in the event we are unable to increase our passenger fares. Additionally in the event of prolonged low fuel prices, our competitors may lower their passenger ticket prices on routes that compete with our prorate markets, which could negatively impact our passenger load factors.. Certain flying arrangements with our major airline partners are terminable upon notice of 120 days or less.. Certain of our flying agreements with our major airline partners permit the major airline partner to terminate the agreement in its discretion by giving us notice of 120 days or less.  If one of our major airline partners elects to terminate. 20. Table of Contents. a flying agreement with notice of 120 days or less, our ability to use the aircraft under an alternative agreement with similar economics may be limited, which could negatively impact our financial results.  Additionally, even if we can subsequently place the aircraft into service with a different major airline partner, of which there can be no assurance, we likely would incur inefficiencies and incremental costs, such as changing the aircraft livery, during the transition period, which would negatively impact our financial results.. We have a significant amount of contractual obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had a total of approximately $2.7 billion in total long - term debt obligations. Substantially all of this long - term debt was incurred in connection with the acquisition of aircraft and engines. We also have significant long - term lease obligations primarily relating to our aircraft fleet. These leases are classified as operating leases and therefore are not reflected as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2017, we had 319 aircraft under lease, with remaining terms ranging up to nine years. Future minimum lease payments due under all long - term operating leases were approximately $716.8 million at December 31, 2017. At a 5.0% discount factor, which is the average rate used to approximate the implicit rates within the applicable aircraft leases, the present value of these lease obligations was equal to approximately $594.3 million at December 31, 2017. Our high level of fixed obligations could impact our ability to obtain additional financing to support additional expansion plans or divert cash flows from operations and expansion plans to service the fixed obligations.. Our anticipated fleet replacement would require a significant increase in our leverage and the related cash requirements.. We currently have 195  CRJ200s with an average life of 15.2  years and 109 ERJ145s with an average life of 15.3 years. Over the next several years, we may continue to replace the CRJ200s and ERJ145s with larger regional jets. If we continue to add new aircraft to our fleet, we anticipate using significant amounts of capital to acquire these larger regional jets.. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient cash flow or liquidity to enable us to obtain the necessary aircraft acquisition financing to replace our current fleet, or to make required debt service payments related to our existing or anticipated future obligations. Even if we meet all required debt, lease and purchase obligations, the size of these long - term obligations could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock in many ways, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing the cost, or limiting the availability of, additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting the ways in which we can use our cash flow, much of which may have to be used to satisfy debt and lease obligations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadversely affecting our ability to respond to changing business or economic conditions or continue our growth strategy.. If we need additional capital and cannot obtain such capital on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to realize our fleet replacement plans or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities.. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.. Our business depends upon the efforts of our chief executive officer, Russell A. Childs, and our other key management and operating personnel. We may have difficulty replacing management or other key personnel who cease to be employed by us and, therefore, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could harm our business. We do not maintain key - person insurance on any of our executive officers.. We may decrease our dividends and/or reduce the amount of stock repurchases in the future.. Historically, we have paid dividends and repurchased shares of our common stock in varying amounts. The future payment and amount of cash dividends and our future repurchases of shares of common stock, if any, and the number of shares of common stock we may repurchase will depend upon our financial condition and results of. 21. Table of Contents. operations and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. There can be no assurance that we will continue our practice of paying dividends on our common stock or that we will have the financial resources to pay such dividends. There also can be no assurance that we will continue our practice of repurchasing shares of common stock or that we will have the financial resources to repurchase shares of common stock in the future.. In addition, repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program and any future dividends could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a share repurchase program and any future dividends could cause our stock price to be higher than it would otherwise be and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, our share repurchase program and any future dividends may reduce our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. Further, our share repurchase program may fluctuate such that our cash flow may be insufficient to fully cover our share repurchases. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program's effectiveness.. Disagreements regarding the interpretation of our code - share agreements with our major airline partners could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Long - term contractual agreements, such as our code - share agreements, are subject to interpretation and disputes may arise under such agreements if the parties to an agreement apply different interpretations to that agreement. Those disputes may divert management time and resources from the core operation of the business, and may result in litigation, arbitration or other forms of dispute resolution.. In recent years we have experienced disagreements with our major airline partners regarding the interpretation of various provisions of our code - share agreements. Some of those disagreements have resulted in litigation, and we may be subject to additional disputes and litigation in the future. Those disagreements have also required a significant amount of management time, financial resources and settlement negotiations of disputed matters.. To the extent that we experience disagreements regarding the interpretation of our code - share or other agreements, we will likely expend valuable management time and financial resources in our efforts to resolve those disagreements. Those disagreements may result in litigation, arbitration, settlement negotiations or other proceedings. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any or all of those proceedings, if commenced, would be resolved in our favor. An unfavorable result in any such proceeding could have adverse financial consequences or require us to modify our operations. Such disagreements and their consequences could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Provisions of our charter documents and code - share agreements may limit the ability or desire of others to gain control of our company.. Our ability to issue shares of preferred and common stock without shareholder approval may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock, even in circumstances where such a change in control would be viewed as desirable by most investors. The provisions of the Utah Control Shares Acquisitions Act may also discourage the acquisition of a significant interest in or control of our company. Additionally, our code - share agreements contain termination and extension trigger provisions related to change in control type transactions that may have the effect of deterring a change in control of our company.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, and revising the rules governing net operating losses and foreign tax credits. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue. 22. Table of Contents. Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. While our analysis and interpretation of this legislation is ongoing, based on reasonable estimates of our current evaluation, we have included a $246.8 million benefit related to the revaluation of our net deferred tax liability and other tax liabilities in accordance with this legislation. This amount may be subject to further adjustment in subsequent periods throughout 2018 in accordance with subsequent interpretive guidance issued by the SEC or the IRS. Further, there may be other material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect the Company in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors and auditors to determine the full impact on us of the recent tax legislation. We urge our investors to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation.. Risks Related to the Airline Industry. The occurrence of an aviation accident involving our aircraft would negatively impact our operations and financial condition.. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could result in significant potential claims of injured passengers and others, as well as repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service. In the event of an accident, our liability insurance may not be adequate to offset our exposure to potential claims and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from the accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our operational and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that our operations are less safe or reliable than other airlines.. Various factors may negatively impact demand for air travel in the United States.. As is the case for other airlines, our operations often are affected by delays, cancellations and other conditions caused by factors largely beyond our control. Factors that might negatively impact our operations include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcongestion and/or space constraints at airports or air traffic control problems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfacility disruptions including power supplies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlack of operational approval (e.g. new routes, aircraft deliveries, etc.);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse weather conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased security measures or breaches in security;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcontagious illness and fear of contagion;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in international treaties concerning air rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinternational or domestic conflicts or terrorist activity; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother changes in business conditions.. Increased labor costs, strikes, labor disputes and increased unionization of our workforces may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and reduce our profitability.. Our business is labor intensive, requiring large numbers of pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and other personnel. Labor costs constitute a significant percentage of our total operating costs. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2017, our salary, wage and benefit costs constituted approximately 42.5% of our total operating costs.. 23. Table of Contents. Increases in our labor costs could result in a material reduction in our earnings. Any new collective bargaining agreements entered into by other regional carriers with their work forces may also result in higher industry wages and increased pressure on us to increase the wages and benefits of our employees. Future agreements with unionized and non - unionized employees may be on terms that are not as attractive as our current agreements or comparable to agreements entered into by our competitors.. Approximately 22.0% of our workforce is unionized. Strikes or labor disputes with our unionized employees may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the RLA, which provides that a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. The RLA generally prohibits strikes or other types of self - help action both before and after a collective bargaining agreement becomes amendable, unless and until the collective bargaining processes required by the RLA have been exhausted.. SkyWest Airlines' employees are not currently represented by any union; however, unionization efforts among those employees occur from time to time. Such efforts will likely continue in the future and may ultimately result in some or all of SkyWest Airlines' employees being represented by one or more unions. Moreover, one or more unions representing ExpressJet employees may seek a single carrier determination by the National Mediation Board, which could require SkyWest Airlines to recognize such union or unions as the certified bargaining representative of SkyWest Airlines' employees. One or more unions representing ExpressJet employees may also assert that SkyWest Airlines' employees should be subject to ExpressJet's collective bargaining agreements. If SkyWest Airlines' employees were to unionize or be deemed to be represented by one or more unions, negotiations with unions representing SkyWest Airlines' employees could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may result in increased operating expenses and may negatively impact our financial results. Moreover, we cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to union representation or collective bargaining agreements. Agreements reached in collective bargaining may increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our financial results.. We are subject to significant governmental regulation and potential regulatory changes.. All interstate air carriers, including SkyWest Airlines and ExpressJet, are subject to regulation by the DOT, the FAA and other governmental agencies. Regulations promulgated by the DOT primarily relate to economic aspects of air service. The FAA requires operating, air worthiness and other certificates; approval of personnel who may engage in flight, maintenance or operation activities; record keeping procedures in accordance with FAA requirements; and FAA approval of flight training and retraining programs. We cannot predict whether we will be able to comply with all present and future laws, rules, regulations and certification requirements or that the cost of continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. We incur substantial costs in maintaining our current certifications and otherwise complying with the laws, rules and regulations to which we are subject. A decision by the FAA to ground, or require time - consuming inspections of or maintenance on, all or any of our aircraft for any reason may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition to state and federal regulation, airports and municipalities enact rules and regulations that affect our operations. From time to time, various airports throughout the country have considered limiting the use of smaller aircraft, such as our aircraft, at such airports. The imposition of any limits on the use of our aircraft at any airport at which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We cannot predict the impact, of potential regulatory changes that may affect our business or the airline industry as whole including the potential impact of tariffs on aircraft deliveries. However, it is possible that these changes could adversely affect our business. Our business may be subject to additional costs or loss of government subsidies as a result of potential regulatory changes, which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. The airline industry is highly competitive and has undergone a period of consolidation and transition leaving fewer potential code - share partners.. The airline industry is highly competitive. We not only compete with other regional airlines, some of which are owned by or operated as code - share partners of major airlines, but we also face competition from low - cost carriers and major airlines on many of our routes. Low - cost carriers such as Southwest, Allegiant, Spirit and JetBlue among others, operate at many of our hubs, resulting in significant price competition. Additionally, a large number of other carriers operate at our hubs, creating intense competition. Certain of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater. 24. Table of Contents. financial and other resources than we do. Moreover, federal deregulation of the industry allows competitors to rapidly enter our markets and to quickly discount and restructure fares. The airline industry is particularly susceptible to price discounting because airlines incur only nominal costs to provide service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Increased fare competition could adversely affect our operations and the price of our common stock. The airline industry has undergone substantial consolidation, including the mergers between Alaska and Virgin America Inc. in 2016, American and US Airways Group Inc. in 2013, Southwest Airlines Co. and AirTran Holdings, Inc. in 2011, United and Continental Airlines, Inc. in 2010 and Delta and Northwest Airlines, Inc. in 2008. Any additional consolidation or significant alliance activity within the airline industry could limit the number of potential partners with whom we could enter into code - share relationships and could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our major airline partners.. Due, in part, to the dynamic nature of the airline industry, major airlines may also make other strategic changes such as changing or consolidating hub locations. If our major airline partners were to make changes such as these in their strategy and operations, our operations and financial results could be adversely impacted.. Terrorist activities or warnings have dramatically impacted the airline industry, and will likely continue to do so.. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and their aftermath have negatively impacted the airline industry in general, including our operations. The primary effects experienced by the airline industry include a substantial loss of passenger traffic and revenue. If additional terrorist attacks are launched against the airline industry, there will be lasting consequences of the attacks, which may include loss of life, property damage, increased security and insurance costs, increased concerns about future terrorist attacks, increased government regulation and airport delays due to heightened security. Additional terrorist attacks and the fear of such attacks could negatively impact the airline industry, and result in further decreased passenger traffic and yields, increased flight delays or cancellations associated with new government mandates, as well as increased security, fuel and other costs. We cannot provide any assurance that these events will not harm the airline industry generally or our operations or financial condition in particular."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
