[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information included in this report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating an investment in us.. Risks Related to Our Business. Oil, gas, and NGL prices are volatile, and declines in prices adversely affect our profitability, financial condition, cash flows, access to capital, and ability to grow.. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth, and the carrying value of our oil and gas properties depend heavily on the prices we receive for oil, gas, and NGL sales.  Oil, gas, and NGL prices also affect our cash flows available for capital expenditures and other items, our borrowing capacity, and the volume and amount of our oil, gas, and NGL reserves.  For example, the amount of our borrowing base under our Credit Agreement is subject to periodic redeterminations based on oil, gas, and NGL prices specified by our bank group at the time of redetermination.  In addition, we may have oil and gas property impairments or downward revisions of estimates of proved reserves if prices fall significantly.  Please refer to Significant Developments in 2017 and Reserves within Part I, Items 1 and 2, Comparison of Financial Results and Trends Between 2017 and 2016 and Between 2016 and 2015 within Part II, Item 7, and Note 1  -  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 11  -  Fair Value Measurements, and Supplemental Oil and Gas Information in Part II, Item 8 for specific discussion.. Historically, the markets for oil, gas, and NGLs have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile.  Wide fluctuations in oil, gas, and NGL prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, gas, and NGLs, market uncertainty, and other factors that are beyond our control, including:. • global and domestic supplies of oil, gas, and NGLs, and the productive capacity of the industry as a whole;. • the level of consumer demand for oil, gas, and NGLs;. • overall global and domestic economic conditions;. • weather conditions;. • the availability and capacity of gathering, transportation, processing, and/or refining facilities in regional or localized areas;. • liquefied natural gas deliveries to and from the United States;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • technological advances and regulations affecting energy consumption and conservation;. • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other exporting countries to maintain effective oil price and production controls;. • political instability or armed conflict in oil or gas producing regions;. • strengthening and weakening of the United States dollar relative to other currencies; and. • governmental regulations and taxes.. Declines in oil, gas, and NGL prices would reduce our revenues and could also reduce the amount of oil, gas, and NGLs that we can produce economically, which could have a materially adverse effect on us.. Weakness in economic conditions or uncertainty in financial markets may have material adverse impacts on our business that we cannot predict.. In the last decade, the United States and global economies and financial systems have experienced turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility in prices of equity and debt securities, periods of diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse, or sale of financial institutions, increased levels of unemployment, and an unprecedented level of intervention by the United States federal government and other governments.  Although the United States economy appears to have stabilized, future uncertainty is possible.  Renewed. 26. weakness in the United States or other large economies could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.  For example:. • the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables;. • the liquidity available under our Credit Agreement could be reduced if any lender is unable to fund its commitment;. • our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business, including for the exploration and/or development of reserves;. • our commodity derivative contracts could become economically ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection; and. • variable interest rate spread levels, including for LIBOR and the prime rate, could increase significantly, resulting in higher interest costs for unhedged variable interest rate based borrowings under our Credit Agreement.. If we are unable to replace reserves, we will not be able to sustain production.. Our future operations depend on our ability to find, develop, or acquire oil, gas, and NGL reserves that are economically producible.  Our properties produce oil, gas, and NGLs at a declining rate over time.  In order to maintain current production rates, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil, gas, and NGL reserves to replace those being depleted by production.  Competition for oil and gas properties is intense, and many of our competitors have financial, technical, human, and other resources necessary to evaluate and integrate acquisitions that are substantially greater than those available to us.. For our recent acquisitions or any future acquisitions we may complete, a successful impact on our business will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors include the purchase price for the acquisition, future oil, gas, and NGL prices, the ability to reasonably estimate or assess the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from reserves, future operating and capital costs, results of future exploration, exploitation, and development activities on the acquired properties, and future abandonment and possible future environmental or other liabilities.  There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves, actual future production rates, and associated costs and potential liabilities with respect to prospective acquisition targets.  Actual results may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates.  Our customary review in connection with property acquisitions will not necessarily reveal, or allow us to fully assess, all existing or potential problems and deficiencies with the properties.  We do not inspect every well, and even when we inspect a well, we may not discover structural, subsurface, or environmental problems that may exist or arise.  We may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities.  We often acquire interests in properties on an \"as-is\" basis with limited remedies for breaches of representations and warranties.. Additionally, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business depending upon the character of the acquired properties if they have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or are in different geographic locations than our existing properties.  To the extent that acquired properties are substantially different than our existing properties, our ability to efficiently realize the expected economic benefits of such transactions may be limited.. Integrating acquired businesses and properties involves a number of special risks.  These risks include the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations and systems and that unforeseen difficulties can arise in integrating operations and systems and in retaining and assimilating employees.  Any of these or other similar risks could lead to potential adverse short-term or long-term effects on our operating results and may cause us to not be able to realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.. Substantial capital is required to develop and replace our reserves.. We must make substantial capital expenditures to find, acquire, develop, and produce oil, gas, and NGL reserves.  Future cash flows and the availability of financing are subject to a number of factors, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices received for oil, gas, and NGL sales, our success in locating and developing and acquiring new reserves, and the orderly functioning of credit and capital markets.  If our cash flows from operations are less than expected, we may reduce our planned capital expenditures unless we can raise additional funds through debt or equity financing or the divestment. 27. of assets.  Debt or equity financing may not always be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms, and the proceeds offered to us for potential divestitures may not always be acceptable to us.  Any downgrades to our credit ratings may make it more difficult or expensive for us to borrow additional funds.. If our revenues decrease in the future due to lower oil, gas, or NGL prices, decreased production, or other reasons, and if we cannot obtain funding through our Credit Agreement, other acceptable debt or equity financing arrangements, or through the sale of assets, our ability to execute development plans, replace our reserves, maintain our acreage, or maintain production levels could be greatly limited.. Downgrades in our credit ratings by various credit rating agencies could impact our access to capital and materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.. In February 2016, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's downgraded our credit ratings (\"Debt Rating\").  Our Debt Rating levels could have materially adverse consequences on our business and future prospects and could:. • limit our ability to access debt markets, including for the purpose of refinancing our existing debt;. • cause us to refinance or issue debt with less favorable terms and conditions, which debt may restrict, among other things, our ability to make any dividend distributions or repurchase shares;. • negatively impact current and prospective customers' willingness to transact business with us;. • impose additional insurance, guarantee and collateral requirements;. • limit our access to bank and third-party guarantees, surety bonds and letters of credit; and. • cause our suppliers and financial institutions to lower or eliminate the level of credit provided through payment terms or intraday funding when dealing with us, thereby increasing the need for higher levels of cash on hand, which would decrease our ability to repay outstanding indebtedness.. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current Debt Ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a Debt Rating will not be further lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant.. Competition in our industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, and human resources than we do.. We face intense competition from major oil and gas companies, independent oil and gas exploration and production companies, and institutional and individual investors who seek oil and gas investments throughout the world, as well as the equipment, expertise, labor, and materials required to operate oil and gas properties.  Many of our competitors have financial, technical, and other resources exceeding those available to us, and many oil and gas properties are sold in a competitive bidding process in which our competitors may be able and willing to pay more for exploratory and development prospects and productive properties, or in which our competitors have technological information or expertise that is not available to us to evaluate and successfully bid for properties.  We may not be successful in acquiring and developing profitable properties in the face of this competition.  In addition, other companies may have a greater ability to continue drilling activities during periods of low oil or gas prices and to absorb the burden of current and future governmental regulations and taxation.  In addition, shortages of equipment, labor, or materials as a result of intense competition may result in increased costs or the inability to obtain those resources as needed.  Our inability to compete effectively with companies in any area of our business could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition, and results of operations.. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business.. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of our executive management team and other key personnel.  The loss of their services could adversely affect our business.  Our drilling success and the success of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced geologists, engineers, landmen, and other professionals.  Competition for many of these professionals can be intense.  If we cannot retain our technical personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel and professionals, our ability to compete could be harmed.. 28. The actual quantities and present value of our proved oil, gas, and NGL reserves may be less than we have estimated.. This report and certain of our other SEC filings contain estimates of our proved oil, gas, and NGL reserves and the estimated future net revenues from those reserves.  These estimates are based on various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil, gas, and NGL prices, drilling and completion costs, gathering and transportation costs, operating expenses, capital expenditures, effects of governmental regulation, taxes, timing of operations, and availability of funds.  The process of estimating oil, gas, and NGL reserves is complex and involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data for each reservoir.  These estimates depend on many variables, and changes often occur as our knowledge of these variables evolves.  Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise.  In addition, our reserve estimates for properties that do not have a significant production history may be less reliable than estimates for properties with lengthy production histories.  A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates, and the timing and/or amount of development expenditures.. Actual future production; prices for oil, gas, and NGLs; revenues; production taxes; development expenditures; operating expenses; and quantities of producible oil, gas, and NGL reserves will most likely vary from those estimated.  Any significant variance of any nature could materially affect the estimated quantities of and present value related to proved reserves disclosed by us, and the actual quantities and present value may be significantly less than we have previously estimated.  In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration, operations and development activity, prevailing oil, gas, and NGL prices, costs to develop and operate properties, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production on adjacent properties, which we may not control.. As of December 31, 2017, 54%, or 253.4 MMBOE, of our estimated proved reserves were proved undeveloped.  In order to develop our proved undeveloped reserves, as of December 31, 2017, we estimate approximately $2.5 billion of capital expenditures would be required.  Although we have estimated our proved reserves and the costs associated with these proved reserves in accordance with industry standards, estimated costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled, and actual results may not occur as estimated.. You should not assume that the PV-10 and standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows included in this report represent the current market value of our estimated proved oil, gas, and NGL reserves.  Management has based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on price and cost assumptions required by the SEC, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower.  For example, the present value of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2017, was estimated using calculated 12-month average sales prices of $51.34 per Bbl of oil (NYMEX WTI spot price), $3.00 per MMBtu of gas (NYMEX Henry Hub spot price), and $27.69 per Bbl of NGL (OPIS spot price).  We then adjust these prices to reflect appropriate quality and location differentials over the period in estimating our proved reserves.  During 2017, our monthly average realized oil prices before the effect of derivative settlements were as high as $56.35 per Bbl and as low as $41.34 per Bbl, and were as high as $27.98 per Bbl and as low as $18.88 per Bbl for NGLs.  For the same period, our monthly average realized gas prices, excluding the effect of derivative settlements, were as high as $3.42 per Mcf and as low as $2.54 per Mcf.  Many other factors will affect actual future net cash flows, including:. • amount and timing of actual production;. • supply and demand for oil, gas, and NGLs;. • curtailments or increases in consumption by oil purchasers and gas pipelines;. • changes in government regulations or taxes, including severance and excise taxes; and. • escalations or reductions in service provider and equipment costs resulting from changes in supply and demand.. The timing of production from oil and gas properties and of related expenses affects the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value.  Our actual future net cash flows could be less than the estimated future net cash flows for purposes of computing PV-10.  In addition, the 10 percent discount factor required by the SEC to be used to calculate PV-10 for reporting purposes is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor given actual interest rates, costs of capital, and other risks to which our business and the oil and gas industry in general are subject.. 29. Our disposition activities may be subject to factors beyond our control, and in certain cases we may retain unforeseen liabilities for certain matters.. We regularly sell non-core assets in order to increase capital resources available for core assets and other purposes and to create organizational and operational efficiencies.  We also occasionally sell interests in core assets for the purpose of accelerating the development and increasing efficiencies in other core assets.  Various factors could materially affect our ability to dispose of such assets, including the approvals of governmental agencies or third-parties, the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the assets on terms we deem acceptable, or other matters or uncertainties that could impact such dispositions, including whether transactions could be consummated or completed in the form or timing and for the value that we anticipate (including any delay in our planned PRB Divestiture as a result of litigation).  We at times may be required to retain certain liabilities or agree to indemnify buyers for certain matters related to the sold assets.  The magnitude of any such retained liabilities or of the indemnification obligations may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately could be material.. We have limited control over the activities on properties we do not operate.. Some of our properties are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners.  As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including the nature and timing of drilling and operational activities, the operator's skill and expertise, compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, the approval of other participants in such properties, the selection and application of suitable technology, or the amount of expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties.  Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the expenditures of such properties.  These limitations and our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners in these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on third-party service providers to conduct drilling and completion and other related operations on properties we operate.. Where we are the operator of a property, we rely on third-party service providers to perform necessary drilling and completion and other related operations.  The ability of third-party service providers to perform such operations will depend on those service providers' ability to compete for and retain qualified personnel, financial condition, economic performance, and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil, gas, and NGLs, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors.  In addition, sustained low commodity prices could cause third-party service providers to consolidate or declare bankruptcy, which could limit our options for engaging such providers.  The failure of a third-party service provider to adequately perform operations could delay drilling or completion or reduce production from the property and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Title to the properties in which we have an interest may be impaired by title defects.. We generally rely on title reports in acquiring oil and gas leasehold interests and obtain title opinions only on significant properties that we drill.  Undeveloped acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage and title insurance is not generally available for oil and gas properties.  As is customary in our industry, we rely upon the judgment of staff and independent landmen who perform the field work of examining records in the appropriate governmental offices and title abstract facilities before acquiring a specific mineral interest and/or undertaking drilling activities.  We, in some cases, perform curative work to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title.  Generally, under the terms of the operating agreements affecting our properties, any monetary loss attributable to a loss of title is to be borne by all parties to any such agreement in proportion to their interests in such property.  A material title defect can reduce the value of a property or render it worthless, thus adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations, and operating cash flow if such property is of sufficient value.. 30. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially producible reserves.. Oil and gas drilling, completion, and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially producible oil, gas, or NGLs will be found.  The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain, and oil, gas, or NGLs drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control.  These factors include:. • unexpected adverse drilling or completion conditions;. • title problems;. • disputes with owners or holders of surface interests on or near areas where we operate;. • pressure or geologic irregularities in formations;. • engineering and construction delays;. • equipment failures or accidents;. • hurricanes, tornadoes, flooding, or other adverse weather conditions;. • governmental permitting delays;. • compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; and. • shortages or delays in the availability of or increases in the cost of drilling rigs and crews, fracture stimulation crews and equipment, pipe, chemicals, water, sand, and other supplies.. The prevailing prices for oil, gas, and NGLs affect the cost of and the demand for drilling rigs, completion and production equipment, and other related services.  However, changes in costs may not occur simultaneously with corresponding changes in commodity prices.  The availability of drilling rigs can vary significantly from region to region at any particular time.  Although land drilling rigs can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of demand, an undersupply of rigs in any region may result in drilling delays and higher drilling costs for the available rigs in that region.. Another significant risk inherent in our drilling plans is the need to obtain drilling permits from state, local, and other governmental authorities.  Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals and drilling permits, including delays that jeopardize our ability to realize the potential benefits from leased properties within the applicable lease periods, the failure to obtain a drilling permit for a well, or the receipt of a permit with unreasonable conditions or costs could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to explore or develop our properties.. The wells we drill may not be productive, and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells.  The seismic data and other technologies we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well if oil, gas, or NGLs are present, or whether they can be produced economically.  Drilling activities can result in dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs to cover drilling and completion costs.  Even if sufficient amounts of oil, gas, or NGLs exist, we may damage a potentially productive hydrocarbon-bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing a well, which could result in reduced or no production from the well, significant expenditure to repair the well, and/or the loss and abandonment of the well.. Results in our newer resource plays, including those plays where we have recently acquired acreage, may be more uncertain than results in resource plays that are more developed and have longer established production histories.  We and the industry generally have less information with respect to the ultimate recoverability of reserves and the production decline rates in newer resource plays than other areas with longer histories of development and production.  Drilling and completion techniques that have proven to be successful in other resource plays are being used in the early development of new plays; however, we can provide no assurance of the ultimate success of these drilling and completion techniques.. In addition, a significant part of our strategy involves increasing our inventory of drilling locations.  Such multi-year drilling inventories can be more susceptible to long-term uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of actual drilling.  Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled, although we have the present intent to do so for locations booked as proved undeveloped locations, or if we will be able to produce oil, gas, or NGLs from these potential drilling locations.. 31. We may not be able to obtain any options or lease rights in potential drilling locations that we identify.  Unless production is established within the spacing units covering undeveloped acres on which our drilling locations are identified, the leases for such acreage will expire and we will lose our right to develop the related properties.  Our total net acreage as of February 14, 2018, that is scheduled to expire over the next three years, represents approximately eight percent of our total net undeveloped acreage as of December 31, 2017.  Although we have identified numerous potential drilling locations, we may not be able to economically drill for and produce oil, gas, or NGLs from all of them, and our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and operating cash flow.. Part of our strategy involves drilling in existing or emerging resource plays using some of the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques.  The results of our planned exploratory and delineation drilling in these plays are subject to drilling and completion technique risks, and results may not meet our expectations for reserves or production.  As a result, we may incur material write-downs, and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline if drilling results are unsuccessful.. Many of our operations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers in order to maximize production and ultimate recoveries and therefore generate the highest possible returns.  Risks we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, landing our well bore outside the desired drilling zone, deviating from the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, the inability to run our casing the entire length of the well bore, and the inability to run tools and recover equipment consistently through the horizontal well bore.  Risks we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, the inability to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, the inability to run tools and other equipment the entire length of the well bore during completion operations, the inability to recover such tools and other equipment, and the inability to successfully clean out the well bore after completion of the final fracture stimulation.. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period.  If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, limited access to gathering systems and takeaway capacity, and/or prices for oil, gas, and NGLs decline, then the return on our investment for a particular project may not be as attractive as we anticipated and we could incur material write-downs of oil and gas properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. Many of our properties are in areas that may have been partially depleted or drained by offset wells and certain of our wells may be adversely affected by actions other operators may take when drilling, completing, or operating wells that they own.. Many of our properties are in areas that may have already been partially depleted or drained by earlier offset drilling.  The owners of leasehold interests adjoining any of our properties could take actions, such as drilling and completing additional wells, which could adversely affect our operations.  When a new well is completed and produced, the pressure differential in the vicinity of the well causes the migration of reservoir fluids toward the new wellbore (and potentially away from existing wellbores).  As a result, the drilling and production of these potential locations could cause a depletion of our proved reserves and may inhibit our ability to further develop our proved reserves.  In addition, completion operations and other activities conducted on adjacent or nearby wells could cause production from our wells to be shut in for indefinite periods of time, could result in increased lease operating expenses and could adversely affect the production and reserves from our wells after they re-commence production.  We have no control over the operations or activities of offsetting operators.. Our commodity derivative contract activities may result in financial losses or may limit the prices we receive for oil, gas, and NGL sales.. To mitigate a portion of the exposure to potentially adverse market changes in oil, gas, and NGL prices and the associated impact on cash flows, we have entered into various derivative contracts.  Our derivative contracts in place include swap and collar arrangements for oil, and swap arrangements for gas and NGLs.  As of December 31, 2017, we were in a net accrued liability position of $139.4 million with respect to our oil, gas, and NGL derivative activities.  These activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:. • our production is less than expected;. • one or more counterparties to our commodity derivative contracts default on their contractual obligations; or. 32. • there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the commodity derivative contract arrangement.. In addition, commodity derivative contracts may limit the prices we receive for our oil, gas, and NGL sales if oil, gas, or NGL prices rise substantially over the price established by the commodity derivative contract.. The inability of customers or co-owners of assets to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results.. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from oil, gas, and NGL sales or joint interest billings to co-owners of oil and gas properties we operate.  This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact our overall credit risk because these entities may be similarly affected by various economic and other conditions, including declines in oil, gas, and NGL prices.  The loss of one or more of these customers could reduce competition for our products and negatively impact the prices of commodities we sell.  We do not believe the loss of any single purchaser would materially impact our operating results, as we have numerous options for purchasers in each of our operating regions for our oil, gas, and NGL production.  Please refer to Note 1  -  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, under the heading Concentration of Credit Risk and Major Customers in Part II, Item 8 of this report for further discussion of our concentration of credit risk and major customers. Additionally, the inability of our co-owners to pay joint interest billings could negatively impact our cash flows and financial ability to drill and complete current and future wells.. We have entered into firm transportation contracts that require us to pay fixed sums of money to our counterparties regardless of quantities actually shipped, processed, or gathered.  If we are unable to deliver the necessary quantities of oil, gas, NGL, or produced water to our counterparties, our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity could be adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, we were contractually committed to deliver 19 MMBbl of oil, 789 Bcf of gas, and 24 MMBbl of produced water.  These contracts expire at various dates through 2028.  We may enter into additional firm transportation agreements as we expand the development of our resource plays.  At the current time, we do not have enough proved developed reserves to offset these contractual liabilities, but we expect to develop reserves that will meet or exceed the commitments and therefore do not expect any material shortfalls.  In the event we encounter delays in drilling and completing our wells or otherwise due to construction, interruptions of operations, or delays in connecting new volumes to gathering systems or pipelines for an extended period of time, or if we further limit our capital expenditures due to future commodity price declines, the requirements to pay for quantities not delivered could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity.. Future oil, gas, and NGL price declines or unsuccessful exploration efforts may result in write-downs of our asset carrying values.. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas properties.  All property acquisition costs and costs of exploratory and development wells are capitalized when incurred, pending the determination of whether proved reserves have been discovered.  If commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are not discovered with an exploratory well, the costs of drilling the well are expensed.. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties, on a depletion pool basis, cannot exceed the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows of that depletion pool.  If net capitalized costs exceed undiscounted future net cash flows, we generally must write down the costs of each depletion pool to the estimated discounted future net cash flows of that depletion pool.  Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value.  We incurred impairment of proved properties expense and impairment of unproved properties expense totaling $3.8 million and $12.3 million, respectively, during 2017, $354.6 million and $80.4 million, respectively, during 2016, and $468.7 million and $78.6 million, respectively, during 2015.  We also incurred impairment of other property, plant, and equipment expense totaling $49.4 million during 2015.  If the prices of oil, gas, or NGLs decline, or we have unsuccessful exploration efforts, it could cause additional proved and/or unproved property impairments in the future.. We review the carrying values of our properties for indicators of impairment on a quarterly basis using the prices in effect as of the end of each quarter.  Once incurred, a write-down of oil and gas properties held for use cannot be reversed at a later date, even if oil, gas, or NGL prices increase.. 33. Lower oil, gas, or NGL prices could limit our ability to borrow under our Credit Agreement.. Our Credit Agreement has a current commitment amount of $925 million, subject to a borrowing base that the lenders redetermine semi-annually based on the bank group's assessment of the value of our proved reserves, which in turn is impacted by oil, gas, and NGL prices.  The borrowing base under our Credit Agreement is $925 million, down from $1.2 billion at December 31, 2016.  This reduction was primarily a result of the sale of our outside-operated Eagle Ford shale assets during the first quarter of 2017, as well as adjustments consistent with lower commodity prices.  The next semi-annual redetermination date is scheduled for April 1, 2018.  We expect this redetermination to result in an increase to our borrowing base as a result of the increase in our proved reserves at December 31, 2017.  Divestitures of additional properties, incurrence of additional debt, or declines in commodity prices could limit our borrowing base and reduce the amount we can borrow under our Credit Agreement.. The amount of our debt may limit our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions, make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions, and make it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $172.5 million in aggregate principal amount of long-term senior unsecured convertible debt outstanding relating to our 1.50% Senior Convertible Notes due July 1, 2021 (\"Senior Convertible Notes\") that we issued on August 12, 2016.  As of December 31, 2017, we had $344.6 million of long-term senior unsecured debt outstanding relating to our 6.50% Senior Notes due 2021 (\"2021 Notes\") that we issued on November 8, 2011; $561.8 million of long-term senior unsecured debt outstanding relating to our 6.125% Senior Notes due 2022 (\"2022 Notes\") that we issued on November 17, 2014; $395.0 million of long-term senior unsecured debt outstanding relating to our 6.50% Senior Notes due 2023 (\"2023 Notes\") that we issued on June 29, 2012; $500.0 million of long-term senior unsecured debt outstanding relating to our 5.0% Senior Notes due 2024 (\"2024 Notes\") that we issued on May 20, 2013; $500.0 million of long-term senior unsecured debt outstanding relating to our 5.625% Senior Notes due 2025 (\"2025 Notes\") that we issued on May 21, 2015; and $500.0 million of long-term senior unsecured debt outstanding relating to our 6.75% Senior Notes due 2026 (\"2026 Notes\") that we issued on September 12, 2016 (collectively, the 2021 Notes, 2022 Notes, 2023 Notes, 2024 Notes, 2025 Notes, and 2026 Notes are referred to as our \"Senior Notes\"); and no outstanding borrowings under our secured credit facility.  We had one outstanding letter of credit in the aggregate amount of $200,000 (which reduces the amount available for borrowing under the facility on a dollar-for-dollar basis), resulting in $924.8 million of available borrowing capacity under our secured credit facility, assuming the borrowing conditions will be met.  Our long-term debt represented 55 percent of our total book capitalization as of December 31, 2017.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences for our operations, including:. • making it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing in the future for our operations and potential acquisitions, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, or other general corporate requirements;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of our debt and the service of interest costs associated with our debt, rather than to productive investments;. • limiting our operating flexibility due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making acquisitions, and paying dividends;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt; and. • making us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic or industry conditions or a downturn in our business.. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future sufficient borrowings are not available to us under our Credit Agreement or from other sources, we might not be able to service our debt or fund our planned capital expenditures and other liquidity needs.  If we are unable to service our debt, due to inadequate liquidity or otherwise, we may have to delay or cancel acquisitions, defer capital expenditures, sell equity securities, divest assets, and/or restructure or refinance our debt.  We might not be able to sell our equity, sell our assets, or restructure or refinance our debt on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or at all.  In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our Credit Agreement and any future credit agreements, may prohibit us from pursuing any of these alternatives.  Further, changes in the credit ratings of our debt may negatively affect the cost, terms, conditions, and availability of future financing.. Our debt agreements, including the Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our Senior Convertible Notes and our Senior Notes, permit us to incur additional debt in the future, subject to compliance with restrictive covenants under those agreements.  In addition, entities we may acquire in the future could have significant amounts of debt outstanding that we could. 34. be required to assume, and in some cases accelerate repayment thereof, in connection with the acquisition, or we may incur our own significant indebtedness to consummate an acquisition.. As discussed above, our Credit Agreement is subject to periodic borrowing base redeterminations.  We could be forced to repay a portion of our bank borrowings in the event of a downward redetermination of our borrowing base, and we may not have sufficient funds to make such repayment at that time.  If we do not have sufficient funds and are otherwise unable to negotiate renewals of our borrowing base or arrange new financing, we may be forced to sell significant assets.. The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business, could prohibit us from engaging in transactions we believe to be beneficial, and could lead to the accelerated repayment of our debt.. Our debt agreements, including the Credit Agreement and the indentures governing our Senior Convertible Notes and our Senior Notes, contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests.  Our ability to borrow under our Credit Agreement is subject to compliance with certain financial covenants.  Financial covenants under the Credit Agreement require, as of the last day of each of the Company's fiscal quarters, our (a) ratio of senior secured debt to 12-month trailing adjusted EBITDAX to be not more than 2.75 to 1.0; (b) adjusted current ratio to be not less than 1.0 to 1.0; and (c) ratio of 12-month trailing adjusted EBITDAX to interest expense to be not less than 2.0 to 1.0.  Our Credit Agreement also requires us to comply with certain additional financial covenants, including requirements that we maintain certain levels of stockholders' equity and limit our annual cash dividends to no more than $50 million.  These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers and acquisitions, and other corporate opportunities.. The respective indentures governing the Senior Notes and Senior Convertible Notes also contain covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to:. • incur additional debt;. • make certain dividends or pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or purchase, redeem, or retire common stock;. • sell assets, including common stock of our subsidiaries;. • restrict dividends or other payments of our subsidiaries;. • create liens that secure debt;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • merge or consolidate with another company.. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a portion of our indebtedness.  We do not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness.. We are subject to operating and environmental risks and hazards that could result in substantial losses or liabilities that may not be fully insured.. Oil and gas operations are subject to many risks, including human error and accidents, that could cause personal injury, death, property damage, well blowouts, craterings, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas and NGLs, or well fluids, releases or spills of completion fluids, spills or releases from facilities and equipment used to deliver or store these materials, spills or releases of brine or other produced or flowback water, subsurface conditions that prevent us from stimulating the planned number of completion stages, accessing the entirety of the wellbore with our tools during completion, or removing materials from the wellbore to allow production to begin, fires, adverse weather such as hurricanes or tornadoes, freezing conditions, floods, droughts, formations with abnormal pressures, pipeline ruptures or spills, pollution, seismic events, releases of toxic gas such as hydrogen sulfide, and other environmental risks and hazards.  If any of these types of events occurs, we could sustain substantial losses.. Furthermore, if we experience any of the problems with well stimulation and completion activities referenced above, our ability to explore for and produce oil, gas, or NGLs may be adversely affected.  We could incur substantial losses or otherwise fail to realize reserves in particular formations as a result of the need to shutdown, abandon, or relocate drilling. 35. operations, the need to modify drill sites to lessen the risk of spills or releases, the need to investigate and/or remediate any spills, releases or ground water contamination that might have occurred, and the need to suspend our operations.. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our current and past generation, handling, and disposal of materials, including produced water, solid and hazardous wastes, and petroleum hydrocarbons.  We may incur joint and several, strict liability under applicable United States federal and state environmental laws in connection with releases of petroleum hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances at, on, under or from our leased or owned properties, some of which have been used for oil and gas exploration and production activities for a number of years, often by third-parties not under our control.  For our outside-operated properties, we are dependent on the operator for operational and regulatory compliance, and could be subject to liabilities in the event of non-compliance.  These properties and the wastes disposed thereon or therefrom could be subject to stringent and costly investigatory or remedial requirements under applicable laws, some of which are strict liability laws without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, including the CERCLA or the Superfund law, the RCRA, the Clean Water Act, the CAA, the OPA, and analogous state laws.  Under any implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators) or property contamination (including groundwater contamination), to perform natural resource mitigation or restoration practices, or to perform remedial plugging or closure operations to prevent future contamination.  In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third-parties to file claims for personal injury or property damage, including induced seismicity damage, allegedly caused by the release of petroleum hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances into the environment.  As a result, we may incur substantial liabilities to third-parties or governmental entities, which could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, development, or acquisitions, or cause us to incur losses.. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses.  We have significant but limited coverage for sudden environmental damage.  We do not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by environmental damage that occurs gradually over time is appropriate for us at this time given the nature of our operations and the nature and cost of such coverage.  Further, we may elect not to obtain insurance coverage under circumstances where we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks to which we are subject.  Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose substantial assets in the event of environmental or other damages.  If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, we could suffer a material loss.. Our operations are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that result in substantial costs and other risks.. Federal, state, tribal, and local authorities extensively regulate the oil and gas industry.  Legislation and regulations affecting the industry are under constant review for amendment or expansion, raising the possibility of changes that may become more stringent and, as a result, may affect, among other things, the pricing, or marketing of oil, gas, and NGL production.  Non-compliance with statutes and regulations and more vigorous enforcement of such statutes and regulations by regulatory agencies may lead to substantial administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, including the assessment of natural resource damages, the imposition of significant investigatory and remedial obligations and may also result in the suspension or termination of our operations.  The overall regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost to place, design, drill, complete, install, operate, and abandon wells and related facilities and, in turn, decreases profitability.. Governmental authorities regulate various aspects of drilling for and the production of oil, gas, and NGLs, including the permit and bonding requirements of drilling wells, the spacing of wells, the unitization or pooling of interests in oil and gas properties, rights-of-way and easements, environmental matters, occupational health and safety, the sharing of markets, production limitations, plugging, abandonment, restoration standards, and oil and gas operations.  Public interest in environmental protection has increased in recent years, and environmental organizations have opposed, with some success, certain projects.  Under certain circumstances, regulatory authorities may deny a proposed permit or right-of-way grant or impose conditions of approval to mitigate potential environmental impacts, which could, in either case, negatively affect our ability to explore or develop certain properties.  Federal authorities also may require any of our ongoing or planned operations on federal leases to be delayed, suspended, or terminated.  Any such delay, suspension, or termination could have a materially adverse effect on our operations.. Our operations are also subject to complex and constantly changing environmental laws and regulations adopted by federal, state, tribal, and local governmental authorities in jurisdictions where we are engaged in exploration or production operations.  New laws or regulations, or changes to current requirements, including the designation of previously unprotected wildlife or plant species as threatened or endangered in areas we operate in, could result in material costs or claims with respect. 36. to properties we own or have owned.  We will continue to be subject to uncertainty associated with new regulatory interpretations and inconsistent interpretations between state and federal agencies.  Under existing or future environmental laws and regulations, we could incur significant liability, including joint and several, strict liability under federal, state, tribal, and local environmental laws for noise emissions and for discharges of oil, gas, and NGLs or other pollutants into the air, soil, surface water, or groundwater.  We could be required to spend substantial amounts on investigations, litigation, and remediation for these emissions and discharges and other compliance issues.  Any unpermitted release of petroleum or other pollutants from our operations could result not only in cleanup costs, but also natural resources, real or personal property and other damages and civil and criminal liabilities.  The listing of additional wildlife or plant species as federally endangered or threatened could result in limitations on exploration and production activities in certain locations.  Existing environmental laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or enforced, or as they may be interpreted, enforced, or altered in the future, may have a materially adverse effect on us.. Seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.. Operations in certain of our regions, such as our Permian, South Texas, and Rocky Mountain regions, are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations designed to protect various wildlife or plant species.  In certain areas on federal lands, drilling and other oil and gas activities can only be conducted during limited times of the year.  This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those times for drilling rigs, oil field equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages.  Wildlife seasonal restrictions, including in greater sage-grouse habitats during breeding and nesting seasons, within a certain distance of active raptor nests during fledging, and in big game winter or parturition ranges during winter or calving seasons, may limit access to federal leases or across federal lands.  These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs.. Proposed federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Hydraulic fracturing is a common practice in the oil and gas industry used to stimulate the production of oil, gas, and NGLs from dense subsurface rock formations.  We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques to many of our oil and gas properties, including our unconventional resource plays in the Wolfcamp and Spraberry shale intervals in the Midland Basin, the Eagle Ford shale of south Texas, and the Bakken/Three Forks formations in North Dakota.  Hydraulic fracturing involves injecting water, sand, and certain chemicals under pressure to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow the flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.  The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions.  However, the EPA and other federal agencies have asserted federal regulatory authority over certain aspects of hydraulic fracturing activities, as outlined below.. The EPA has authority to regulate underground injections that contain diesel in the fluid system under the Safe Drinking Water Act.  The EPA has published an interpretive memorandum and permitting guidance related to regulation of fracturing fluids using this regulatory authority.  In June 2016, the EPA issued regulations under the Federal Clean Water Act establishing federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater generated by unconventional oil and gas operations during the hydraulic fracturing process.  Under a recent settlement, the EPA will decide by March 2019 whether to initiate rulemaking governing the disposal of wastewater from oil and gas development.  If the EPA implements further regulations of hydraulic fracturing, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays, or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and could even be prohibited from drilling and/or completing certain wells.. Certain states in which we operate, including Texas and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, waste disposal, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations or otherwise seek to ban fracturing activities altogether.  In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict, or prohibit the performance of drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular.  Recently, municipalities have passed or proposed zoning ordinances that ban or strictly regulate hydraulic fracturing within city boundaries, setting the stage for challenges by state regulators and third-parties.  Similar events and processes are playing out in several cities, counties, and townships across the United States.  In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct, operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature,. 37. experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and could even be prohibited from drilling and/or completing certain wells.. In the recent past, several federal governmental agencies were actively involved in studies or reviews that focus on environmental aspects and impacts of hydraulic fracturing practices.  For example, in December 2016, the EPA issued a final assessment of potential impacts to drinking water resources from hydraulic fracturing.  On March 28, 2017, President Trump issued Executive Order 13783 entitled \"Promoting Energy Independence and Economic Growth\" (\"Executive Order 13783\").  Executive Order 13783 directed executive departments and agencies to review regulations that potentially burden the development or use of domestically produced energy resources and, as appropriate, suspend, revise, or rescind those that unduly burden domestic energy resources development.. On March 26, 2015, the BLM published a final rule requiring, among other things, disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing on federal and tribal lands, including private surface lands with underlying federal minerals.  The rule was never implemented due to court challenges.  On December 29, 2017, the BLM rescinded the rule.  We will continue to be subject to uncertainty associated with new regulatory suspensions, revisions or rescissions and inconsistent state and federal regulatory mandates that could adversely affect our production.. Further, as to air quality and greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") regulation of oil and gas sources, the overall trend has been toward increased regulation and requirements for reduced emissions.  The Trump Administration has taken steps toward rescinding or reviewing many of those regulations, but any deregulation will likely face immediate judicial challenges.  The Obama Administration took several actions to regulate air quality and GHGs, many of which continue to be in effect.  For example, on August 16, 2012, the EPA issued final rules subjecting all new and modified oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage, and distribution) to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards (\"NSPS\") and all existing and new operations to the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (\"NESHAP\") programs.  The EPA rules also include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells.  These standards require the use of reduced emission completion (\"REC\") techniques developed in the EPA's Natural Gas STAR program along with the pit flaring of gas not sent to the gathering line beginning in January 2015.  The standards are applicable to newly drilled and fractured wells as well as existing wells that are refractured.  Further, the regulations under NESHAP include maximum achievable control technology (\"MACT\") standards for those glycol dehydrators and certain storage vessels at major sources of hazardous air pollutants not currently subject to MACT standards.  These rules require additional control equipment, changes to procedure, and extensive monitoring and reporting.  In September 2013 and December 2014, the EPA published technical fixes to the 2012 NSPS, including standards for storage tanks subject to the NSPS.  The amendments clarified stages for flowback and the point at which green completion equipment is required and updated requirements for storage tanks and leak detection requirements for processing plants.  As part of the EPA's strategy during the Obama Administration to reduce methane and ozone-forming volatile organic compound (\"VOC\") emissions from the oil and gas industry, on May 12, 2016, the EPA issued final regulations that amend and expand the 2012 regulations.  The 2016 NSPS requires reduction of greenhouse gases in the form of methane and VOCs from certain activities in oil and gas production, processing, transmission and storage and applies to facilities constructed, modified, or reconstructed after September 18, 2015.  The final regulation requires, among other things, GHG and VOC standards for certain equipment, such as centrifugal compressors and reciprocating compressors; semi-annual leak detection and repair for well sites and quarterly for boosting and garnering compressor stations and natural gas transmission compressor stations; control requirements and emission limits for pneumatic pumps; and additional requirements for control of GHGs and VOCs from well completions.  Both the 2012 and 2016 rules are the subjects of Petitions for Review before the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, though the litigation of both rules has been stayed.  In June 2017, the EPA proposed a 2-year stay of the compliance requirements in the 2016 NSPS.  In a related action in March 2017, the EPA withdrew the final information request it had issued in 2016 as part of an effort to develop standards under the CAA NSPS provisions for methane and other emissions from existing sources in the oil and natural gas industry.. In October 2015, the EPA revised and lowered the ambient air quality standard for ozone in the U.S. under the CAA, from 75 parts per billion to 70 parts per billion, which is likely to result in more, and expanded, ozone non-attainment areas, which in turn will require states to adopt implementation plans to reduce emissions of ozone-forming pollutants, like VOCs and nitrogen oxides, that are emitted from, among others, the oil and gas industry.  The judicial challenge to the ozone standard has been stayed while the EPA reviews the standard.  In October 2016, the EPA finalized Control Techniques Guidelines for VOC emissions from existing oil and natural gas equipment and processes in moderate ozone non-attainment areas.  These Control Techniques Guidelines provide recommendations for states and local air agencies to consider when determining what emissions requirements apply to sources in the non-attainment areas.  The EPA indicated in late 2017 that it will take comments on completely withdrawing the guidelines.  On May 12, 2016, the EPA also issued a final rule named the \"Source Determination Rule\" that was issued to clarify when multiple pieces of oil and gas equipment and activities must be aggregated as a single. 38. source for determining whether major source permitting programs apply.  This action can expand the permitting and related control requirements to sources that were not previously subject to permitting requirements.. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques.  Disclosure of chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process could make it easier for third-parties opposing such activities to pursue legal proceedings against producers and service providers based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect human health or the environment, including groundwater.  Over the past year, several court cases have addressed aspects of hydraulic fracturing.  In a case that could delay operations on public lands, a court in California held that the BLM did not adequately consider the impact of hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling before issuing leases.  Courts in New York and Colorado reduced the level of evidence required before a court will agree to consider alleged damage claims from hydraulic fracturing by property owners.  Litigation resulting in financial compensation for damages linked to hydraulic fracturing, including damages from induced seismicity, could spur future litigation and bring increased attention to the practice of hydraulic fracturing.  Judicial decisions could also lead to increased regulation, permitting requirements, enforcement actions, and penalties.  Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or restrictions or increased costs in the exploration for, and production of, oil, gas, and NGLs, including from the development of shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing.  The adoption of additional state or local laws, or the implementation of new regulations, regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells, or an increase in compliance costs and delays, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. Requirements to reduce gas flaring could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Wells in the Bakken and Three Forks formations in North Dakota, where we have significant operations, produce gas as well as oil.  Constraints in the current gas gathering and processing network in certain areas have resulted in some of that gas being flared instead of gathered, processed, and sold.  In June 2014, the North Dakota Industrial Commission, North Dakota's chief energy regulator, adopted a policy to reduce the volume of gas flared from oil wells in the Bakken and Three Forks formations.  The Commission is requiring operators to develop gas capture plans that describe how much gas is expected to be produced, how it will be delivered to a processor, and where it will be processed.  Production caps or penalties will be imposed on certain wells that cannot meet the capture goals.  In November 2016, the BLM finalized regulations to address methane emissions from oil and gas operations on federal and tribal lands.  The regulations prohibit venting gas except in limited situations and limit the flaring of gas.  A preliminary injunction sought by industry groups was denied in U.S. District Court and the regulation went into effect on January 17, 2017; however, on December 8, 2017, the BLM finalized a rule suspending or delaying many of the provisions of the regulation while it reviews the regulation.  This suspension of the rule is being challenged in the courts.  These capture requirements, and any similar future obligations in North Dakota or our other locations, may increase our operational costs, or restrict our production, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to produce oil, gas, and NGLs economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if we are unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for our drilling operations and/or completions or are unable to dispose of or recycle the water we use at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental rules.. The hydraulic fracturing process on which we and others in our industry depend to complete wells that will produce commercial quantities of oil, gas, and NGLs requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water.. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water produced from our wells, could adversely impact our operations.  Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of wastes, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of oil, gas, and NGLs.. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage, and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase our operating costs and cause delays, interruptions, or termination of our operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition.. 39. Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and the demand for oil, gas, and NGLs.. In December 2009, the EPA made a finding that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other \"greenhouse gases\" endanger public health and the environment because emissions of such gases contribute to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes.  Based on this finding, the EPA adopted and implemented a comprehensive suite of regulations to restrict and otherwise regulate emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA.  In particular, the EPA has adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA.  One rule requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles, and the other regulates permitting and greenhouse gas emissions from certain large stationary sources.  These EPA regulatory actions have been challenged by various industry groups, initially in the D.C. Circuit, which in 2012 ruled in favor of the EPA in all respects.  However, in June 2014, the United States Supreme Court reversed the D.C. Circuit and struck down the EPA's greenhouse gas permitting rules to the extent they impose a requirement to obtain a permit based solely on emissions of greenhouse gases.  The EPA proposed a rule in 2016 to comply with the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling by limiting the requirement to obtain permits addressing emissions of greenhouse gases to large sources of other air pollutants, such as volatile organic compounds or nitrogen oxides, which also emit 100,000 tons per year or more of CO2 (or modifications of these sources that result in an emissions increase of 75,000 tons per year or more of CO2e).  If finalized, large sources of air pollutants other than greenhouse gases will be required to implement the best available capture technology for greenhouse gases.  However, the EPA has not taken action on the proposed rule and is unlikely to do so under the Trump Administration.  The EPA has also adopted reporting rules for greenhouse gas emissions from specified greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries as well as certain onshore oil and gas extraction and production facilities.. Several other kinds of cases on greenhouse gases have been heard by the courts in recent years.  While courts have generally declined to assign direct liability for climate change to large sources of greenhouse gas emissions, some have required increased scrutiny of such emissions by federal agencies and permitting authorities.  There is a continuing risk of claims being filed against companies that have significant greenhouse gas emissions, and new claims for damages and increased government scrutiny, especially from state and local governments, will likely continue.  Such cases often seek to challenge air emissions permits that greenhouse gas emitters apply for, seek to force emitters to reduce their emissions, or seek damages for alleged climate change impacts to the environment, people, and property.  Any court rulings, laws, or regulations that restrict or require reduced emissions of greenhouse gases could lead to increased operating and compliance costs, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and gas that we produce.. The United States Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and almost one-half of the states have already taken measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas \"cap and trade\" programs.  Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances.  The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall greenhouse gas emission reduction goal.  Recently, the Congressional Budget Office provided Congress with a study on the potential effects on the United States economy of a tax on greenhouse gas emissions.  While \"carbon tax\" legislation has been introduced in the Senate, the prospects for passage of such legislation are highly uncertain at this time.. On June 25, 2013, President Obama issued a Climate Action Plan to address climate change through a variety of executive actions, including reduction of methane emissions from oil and gas production and processing operations as well as pipelines and coal mines (the \"Climate Action Plan\").  Please refer to Proposed federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays for more information on EPA actions to implement the Climate Action Plan.  The focus on legislating and/or regulating methane could eventually result in:. • requirements for methane emission reductions from existing oil and gas equipment;. • increased scrutiny for sources emitting high levels of methane, including during permitting processes;. • analysis, regulation and reduction of methane emissions as a requirement for project approval; and. • actions taken by one agency for a specific industry establishing precedents for other agencies and industry sectors.. In relation to the Climate Action Plan, both assumed Global Warming Potential (\"GWP\") and assumed social costs associated with methane and other greenhouse gas emissions have been finalized, including a 20% increase in the GWP of. 40. methane.  Changes to these measurement tools could adversely impact permitting requirements, application of agencies' existing regulations for source categories with high methane emissions, and determinations of whether a source qualifies for regulation under the CAA.  However, in Executive Order 13783, President Trump ordered a review of the use of social cost of carbon for regulatory impact analysis.  Therefore, the continued use of the social cost of carbon under the Trump Administration is uncertain.. Finally, it should be noted that scientists have predicted that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events.  If such effects were to occur, our operations could be adversely affected.  Potential adverse effects could include disruption of our production activities, including, for example, damages to our facilities from flooding or increases in our costs of operation or reductions in the efficiency of our operations, as well as potentially increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of such events.  Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies, or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship.  We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses, or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change.  Federal regulations or policy changes regarding climate change preparation requirements could also impact our costs and planning requirements.. Our ability to sell oil, gas, and NGLs, and/or receive market prices for our production, may be adversely affected by constraints on gathering systems, processing facilities, pipelines and other transportation systems owned or operated by others or by other interruptions.. The marketability of our oil, gas, and NGL production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering systems, processing facilities, pipelines, and other transportation systems owned or operated by third-parties.  Any significant interruption in service from, damage to, or lack of available capacity in these systems and facilities can result in the shutting-in of producing wells, the delay, or discontinuance of development plans for our properties, or lower price realizations.  Although we have some contractual control over the processing and transportation of our operated production, material changes in these business relationships could materially affect our operations.  Federal and state regulation of oil, gas, and NGL production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures, damage to or destruction of pipelines, infrastructure or capacity constraints, and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather, process, and transport oil, gas, and NGLs.. In particular, if drilling in the Midland Basin continues to be successful, the amount of oil, gas, and NGLs being produced by us and others could exceed the capacity of, and result in strains on, the various gathering and transportation systems, pipelines, processing facilities, and other infrastructure available in that area.  It will be necessary for additional infrastructure, pipelines, gathering and transportation systems and processing facilities to be expanded, built, or developed to accommodate anticipated production from these areas.  Certain processing, pipeline, and other gathering or transportation projects that might be, or are being, considered for these areas may not be developed timely or at all due to lack of financing or other constraints, including permitting constraints.  Capital and other constraints could also limit our ability to build or access intrastate gathering and transportation systems necessary to transport our production to interstate pipelines or other points of sale or delivery.  In such event, we might have to delay or discontinue development activities or shut in our wells to wait for sufficient infrastructure development or capacity expansion and/or sell production at significantly lower prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, the operations of the third-parties on whom we rely for gathering and transportation services are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations, which require obtaining and maintaining numerous permits, approvals, and certifications from various federal, state, tribal, and local government authorities.  These third-parties may incur substantial costs in order to comply with existing laws and regulations.  If existing laws and regulations governing such third-party services are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to their operations, these changes may affect the amounts we pay for such services.  Similarly, a failure to comply with such laws and regulations by the third-parties on whom we rely could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A portion of our production in any region may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous reasons, including as a result of weather conditions, accidents, loss of pipeline, gathering, processing or transportation system access or capacity, field labor issues or strikes, or we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions.  If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted at the same time, it could temporarily and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. 41. New technologies may cause our current exploration and drilling methods to become obsolete.. The oil and gas industry is subject to rapid and significant advancements in technology, including the introduction of new products and services that use new technologies.  As competitors use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost.  In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can.  One or more of the technologies we currently use or implement in the future may become obsolete.  We cannot be certain we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us.  If we are unable to maintain technological advancements consistent with industry standards, our operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, terrorism, armed conflict, and other disruptions.. As an oil, gas, and NGLs producer, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts.  Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing.  If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel, or capabilities essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data.  These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.. The threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action have caused instability in world financial markets and could lead to increased volatility in prices for oil, gas, and NGLs, all of which could adversely affect the markets for our operations.  Energy assets might be specific targets of terrorist attacks.  These developments have subjected our operations to increased risk and, depending on their occurrence and ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors.. From January 1, 2017, to February 14, 2018, the intraday trading prices per share of our common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a low of $12.29 per share in August 2017 to a high of $36.77 per share in January 2017.  We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control.  These factors include:. • changes in oil, gas, or NGL prices;. • variations in drilling, recompletion, and operating activity;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. • changes in market valuations of comparable companies;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • increased volatility due to the impacts of algorithmic trading practices;. • future sales of our common stock; and. • changes in the national and global economic outlook.. We may not meet the expectations of our stockholders and/or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result.. 42. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws have provisions that discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent stockholders from receiving a takeover premium on their investment, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Delaware corporate law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us or our management.  These provisions, among other things, provide for non-cumulative voting in the election of members of the Board of Directors and impose procedural requirements on stockholders who wish to make nominations for the election of directors or propose other actions at stockholder meetings.  These provisions, alone or in combination with each other, may discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to stockholders for their common stock.  As a result, these provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, which may limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. We may not always pay dividends on our common stock.. Payment of future dividends remains at the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will continue to depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors.  In addition, the payment of dividends is subject to a covenant in our Credit Agreement limiting our annual cash dividends to no more than $50.0 million, and to covenants in the indentures for our Senior Notes and Senior Convertible Notes that limit our ability to pay dividends beyond a certain amount. Our Board of Directors may determine in the future to reduce the current semi-annual dividend rate of $0.05 per share, or discontinue the payment of dividends altogether.. 43"
