[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs and, as a result, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See \"Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" for additional information.  Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks facing our company described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We have experienced losses in the past and may experience losses in the future.. Our business has experienced quarterly and annual operating losses during the periods presented in the financial statements included in this Annual Report. In fiscal 2017, we had a net loss and income from operations of $7.8 million and $53.9 million, respectively. In fiscal 2016, we had a net loss and income from operations of $20.0 million and $6.2 million, respectively. In fiscal 2015, we had a net loss and loss from operations of $46.5 million and $6.7 million, respectively. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability depends in part on revenue growth from, among other things, increased demand for our memory solutions, products and related service offerings in our current markets including Brazil, as well as our ability to expand into new markets. We may not be successful in achieving and maintaining the necessary revenue growth. Moreover, as we continue to expend substantial funds for research and development projects, enhancements to sales and marketing efforts and to otherwise operate our business, we cannot assure you that we will achieve and maintain profitability on an annual or quarterly basis even if our revenue does grow.. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter in the future, which makes them difficult to predict.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. As a result, our past quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain the margins we have achieved in recent periods. Our operating results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including:. •  the cyclical nature of the markets in which we compete;. •  changes in memory component prices or the average selling prices of our products, including fluctuations in the market price of DRAM and Flash memory components;. •  lack of growth or contraction or increased competition in the memory market in Brazil or other markets;. •  adverse changes to the local content regulations in Brazil;. •  corruption or adverse political situations in Brazil or other markets;. •  increased trade restrictions or trade wars;. •  the loss of, significant reduction in sales to, or demand from, key customers;. •  industry consolidation, which may further reduce the number of our potential customers and/or suppliers;. •  fluctuations in the markets served by our OEM customers, including the computing, networking, communications, storage, aerospace, defense, mobile and industrial markets;. •  difficulty matching our purchasing and production to customer demand, which is difficult to forecast accurately;. 17. •  cancellations, modifications or delays in customer orders, product returns and inventory value or obsolescence risk;. •  competitive developments, including the introduction of new competitive products;. •  our failure to develop new or enhanced products and introduce them in a timely manner; and. •  the other factors described in this \"Item 1A. Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this report.. Due to the various factors mentioned above and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual period should not be relied upon as an indication of our future operating performance. In one or more future periods, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may fluctuate or decline regardless of our operating performance.. We depend on the desktop, notebook, server and smartphone markets in Brazil, and lack of growth, or the occurrence of contraction, in these markets have in the past, and could again in the future, have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A significant portion of our sales and operations are focused on Brazil. Sales to customers in Brazil accounted for 52%, 46% and 52% of our net sales in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We have invested substantial financial and management resources to develop a research and development center and a semiconductor packaging and test facility in Brazil in order to target the growing market for memory in Brazil and to take advantage of certain Brazilian laws and government incentives, as described below in \" - Risks Relating to our International Operations.\" Our future financial performance will depend in large part on growth in the Brazilian market, which may not grow again at historical rates, or at all.. Demand for our products in Brazil is dependent upon, among other things, demand in the markets served by our customers, including the Brazilian computing and mobile markets. From time to time, the markets served by our Brazilian customers have experienced downturns, often in connection with political unrest or in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. A decline or significant shortfall in demand in any of the markets that we serve could have a significant negative impact on the demand for our products. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn in Brazil, even absent a worldwide economic downturn, may lead to higher interest rates or significant changes in the rate of inflation in Brazil, or an inability of our Brazilian customers and suppliers to access capital on acceptable terms. Our customers and suppliers in Brazil could experience cash flow problems, credit defaults or other financial hardships. A major corruption scandal involving Brazil's largest energy company, Petrobras, began to unfold in 2014, and by 2015 contributed to a significant decrease in the value of the Brazilian real, which in turn led to a substantial downturn in the Brazilian economy and a substantial rise in unemployment. This in turn had a significant negative impact on our revenues, results of operations and our financial condition.. In addition, as discussed in greater detail below, our sales and our profit margins in Brazil are favorably impacted by laws establishing local content requirements for electronics products. See \" - Our success in Brazil depends in part on Brazilian laws establishing local content requirements for electronics products. The elimination of or a reduction in the local content requirements, or our inability to secure the benefits of these regulations, could significantly reduce the demand for, and the profit margins on, our products in Brazil.\". Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The markets in which we compete historically have been highly cyclical and have experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may in the future materially adversely affect, our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Historically, the markets in which we compete have been highly cyclical and have experienced significant downturns often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both component suppliers and electronic equipment manufacturers, and/or declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion. 18. of selling prices and inventory values. Our industry depends on the continued growth of the electronics industry and on end-user demand for our customers' products. Economic downturns often have had an adverse effect upon manufacturers and end-users of electronics products. The timing of new product developments, the lifecycle of existing electronics products and the level of acceptance and growth of new products can also affect demand for our products. Downturns in the markets we serve could have a significant negative impact on the demand for our products. Additionally, due to changing conditions, our customers have experienced and may in the future experience periods of excess inventory that could have a significant adverse impact on our sales. During an industry downturn, there is also a higher risk that some of our trade receivables become delinquent or even uncollectible and that our inventory would decrease in value. We cannot predict the timing or the severity of the cycles within our industry. In particular, it is difficult to predict how long and to what levels any industry upturn or downturn, or general economic strength or weakness, will last or develop.. Our customers primarily serve end users in the computing, networking, communications, storage, aerospace, defense, mobile and industrial markets. Sales of our products are dependent upon demand in these markets. From time to time, each of these markets has experienced cyclical downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions, and we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results due to factors affecting these markets. Changes in end-user demand for our customers' products could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products, particularly if the customer has accumulated excess inventories of products purchased from us or from competitors selling similar products. Reduced demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Declines in memory component prices and our average selling prices may result in declines in our net sales and gross profit and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our industry has historically been characterized by declines in average selling prices. Our average selling prices may decline due to several factors, including general declines in demand for our products and excess supply of DRAM and Flash memory components as a result of overcapacity. In the past, transitions to smaller design geometries and other factors causing overcapacity in memory markets have led to significant increases in the worldwide supply of memory components. If not accompanied by increases in demand, supply increases usually result in significant declines in component prices and, in turn, declines in the average selling prices and profit margins of our products. During periods of overcapacity, our net sales may decline if we fail to increase sales volume of existing products or to introduce and sell new products in quantities sufficient to offset declines in selling prices. Our efforts to increase sales or to introduce new products to offset the impact of declines in average selling prices may not be successful. Furthermore, our competitors and customers also impose significant pricing pressures on us. These declines in average selling prices have in the past had, and may again in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Declines in prices also could affect the valuation of our inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs. Declines in average selling prices also might enable OEMs to pre-install higher density memory modules into new systems at existing price points, thereby reducing the demand for future memory upgrades. In addition, our net sales and gross profit may be negatively affected by shifts in our product mix during periods of declining average selling prices.. Worldwide economic and political conditions as well as other factors may adversely affect our operations and cause fluctuations in demand for our products.. Uncertainty in global economic and political conditions poses a risk to the overall economy, as consumers and businesses have made it difficult for customers, suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Declines in the worldwide semiconductor market, economic conditions or consumer confidence would likely decrease the overall demand for our products. Other factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include:. •  a downturn in the computing, networking, communications, storage, aerospace, defense, mobile or industrial markets;. •  changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit markets, expectations for employment and inflation and energy prices;. 19. •  corruption or adverse political situations in Brazil or other markets;. •  increased trade restrictions or trade wars;. •  changes in the level of customers' components inventory;. •  competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products, architectures, manufacturing technologies and marketing programs;. •  changes in technology or customer product needs;. •  strategic actions taken by our competitors; and. •  market acceptance of our products.. If demand for our products decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory or record underutilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. If product demand increases more or faster than anticipated, we may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers' product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our net sales, increase our costs, lower our profit margins or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our success in Brazil depends in part on Brazilian laws establishing local content requirements for electronics products. The elimination of or a reduction in the local content requirements, or our inability to secure the benefits of these regulations, could significantly reduce the demand for, and the profit margins on, our products in Brazil.. Successive Brazilian governmental administrations have adopted economic policies intended to foster innovation and investment in local production, stimulate job growth, provide stimulus to exports and defend local manufacturers in various industries. In recent decades, the Brazilian government identified the design and manufacture of ICs as a priority and established tax incentives and local content requirements intended to promote the development of the local IT industry. These incentives include the PPB/IT Program, PADIS and Lei do Bem. The PPB/IT program is intended to promote local manufacturing by allowing qualified companies to sell specified IT products, including desktops, notebooks, servers, SmartTVs and mobile products, with a reduced Brazilian federal excise tax rate, or the IPI, as compared to the rate that is required to be collected by non-qualified suppliers. The PPB/IT Program provides an incentive for certain customers to purchase products from us because they are not required to pay the regular level of IPI on their purchases. Under the PPB/IT Program, the percentage of local content required in specified IT products has increased significantly from 2006 to present, and the law that provides the PPB/IT Program benefits is currently legislated to remain in force through the end of 2029. For example, under the PPB/IT Program, from 2006 to present the total requirement of DRAM modules made with locally packaged DRAM ICs for notebook computers has increased from 0% to 80% and is expected to remain at current levels through the end of 2029. In order to receive the intended treatment as a PPB/IT Program supplier, our subsidiary, SMART do Brazil, is required to invest in research and development activities in an amount equal to 3% of its gross annual sales revenues reduced by the following: the cost of raw materials qualified as products eligible for the PPB/IT Program, including the ICs that are purchased from our other Brazilian subsidiary, SMART Brazil, and that are used to make memory modules; applicable sales taxes; the value of products exported out of Brazil; and the value of products shipped to the Manaus Free Trade Zone. Brazil's local content requirements for the IT industry have been subject to criticism by other governments and international organizations.. In 2013, the EU, later joined by Japan, requested the establishment of a panel within the WTO to determine whether certain measures enacted by the Brazilian government concerning tax incentives and local content requirements for the automotive and several other industries including the IT industry and including PADIS, the PPB/IT Program and Lei do Bem, are inconsistent with WTO rules. In December 2016, the WTO circulated its report to the parties. This report was released to the public on August 30, 2017. In its report, the panel concluded,. 20. among other things, that the tax exemptions, reductions and suspensions granted for the automotive, IT and other industries amount to subsidies that are inconsistent with the principles of the various WTO agreements, and the panel recommended that Brazil withdraw these subsidies. Government officials in Brazil have expressed their intent, if necessary, to restructure the incentives to be consistent with the WTO principles and to continue to support local industry, however, there can be no assurance that the programs will ultimately be restructured and implemented or, if implemented, whether the restructured programs will provide the same level of support as is currently in place. Brazil has notified the WTO of its decision to appeal the panel's findings. While we cannot predict the impact of the WTO's report, this recommendation could result in significant adverse changes to the local content rules and incentives available to us and our customers in Brazil. Any suspension, early termination or other adverse change in the local content requirements could significantly reduce the demand for, and the profit margins on, our products in Brazil, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, we benefit from various other tax incentives extended to us in Brazil to promote the development of the local IT industry, and are subject to related risks, as described below under \" - Risks Relating to our International Operations - If the tax incentive or tax holiday arrangements from which we benefit in Brazil or Malaysia change or cease to be in effect or applicable in part or in whole, for any reason, or if our assumptions and interpretations regarding tax laws and incentive or holiday arrangements prove to be incorrect, the amount of corporate income, excise, import and contribution taxes we have to pay could increase significantly.\". Sales to a limited number of customers represent a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of any key customer or key program, or the demands of our key customers, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our principal end customers include global OEMs that compete in the computing, networking, communications, storage, aerospace, defense, mobile and industrial markets. In fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, sales to our ten largest end customers (including sales to contract manufacturers or ODMs at the direction of such end customers) accounted for 84%, 81% and 75% of net sales, respectively. Of our end customers, Samsung accounted for 19%, 13% and 11% of net sales in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively; Cisco accounted for 15%, 19% and 16% of net sales in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively; Lenovo Group Ltd., or Lenovo, accounted for 13% of net sales in fiscal 2016; Dell accounted for 15% of net sales in fiscal 2015; and Hewlett-Packard Company, or HP, accounted for 14% of net sales in fiscal 2015 (in fiscal 2016, HP undertook a spin-off and divided into two distinct companies, following which neither company accounted for 10% or more of our net sales). Direct sales to Samsung accounted for 19%, 13% and 11% of net sales in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively; direct sales to Flex Ltd., or Flex, accounted for 14% and 17% of net sales in fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively; direct sales to Hon Hai accounted for 13%, 11% and 11% of net sales in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively; and direct sales to Dell accounted for 15% of net sales in fiscal 2015. While Samsung is a significant customer of ours, purchasing eMCPs from us in their smartphone division and DRAM modules from us in their PC division, Samsung's semiconductor division is also a major supplier and a competitor. See \"Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business - Our dependence on a small number of sole or limited source suppliers subjects us to certain risks, including the risk that we may be unable to obtain adequate supplies at a reasonable price and in a timely manner\" and \" - The memory market is intensely competitive, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position.\". We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. However, we can provide no assurance that any of these customers or any of our other customers will continue to utilize our products or our services at current levels, or at all. Although we have master agreements with one or more key customers, these agreements govern the terms and conditions of the relationship and do not contain requirements for them to purchase minimum volumes.. Our customer concentration may also subject us to perceived or actual bargaining leverage that our key customers may have, given their relative size and importance to us. Since a large percentage of our sales is to a small number of customers that are primarily large OEMs, these customers are able to exert, have exerted and we expect will continue to exert, pressure on us to make concessions on price and on terms and conditions which can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our key customers seek to negotiate their agreements on terms less favorable to us and we accept such unfavorable terms, such unfavorable terms may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, unless and until we diversify and expand our customer base, our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and volume of business from our largest customers and the financial and operational success of these customers. If we were to. 21. lose one of our key customers or have a key customer cancel a key program or otherwise significantly reduce its volume of business with us, our sales and profitability would be materially reduced and our business and financial condition would be seriously harmed.. The memory market is intensely competitive, and we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position.. The memory market is characterized by intense competition. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, greater name recognition, broader product lines, lower cost structures and longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Further, some of our competitors are in a better financial and marketing position from which to influence industry acceptance of a particular product standard or competing technology than we are. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products at a lower price than we can.. Our primary competitors in the specialty memory market include Viking Technology, ATP, Unigen, Apacer and Transcend. In Brazil, we compete against local manufacturers of DRAM modules and local manufacturers of memory ICs, including HT Micron Semicondutores Ltda., or HT Micron, and Multilaser Indústria de Equipamentos de Informática, Eletrônicos e Ópticos Ltda.. We compete globally against semiconductor memory IC manufacturers that also manufacture DRAM ICs and modules and Flash products, including Samsung, Micron, Western Digital, SK Hynix and Toshiba. While these companies generally focus on higher volume commodity products, they sometimes compete with some of our specialty memory products. In addition to competing with certain portions of our product offering, Samsung is also a major supplier and a significant customer. See \"Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Our Business - Sales to a limited number of customers represents a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of any key customer or key program, or the demands of our key customers, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition\" and \" - Our dependence on a small number of sole or limited source suppliers subjects us to certain risks, including the risk that we may be unable to obtain adequate supplies at a reasonable price and in a timely manner.\". In our supply chain services business, we compete in a fragmented market with a broad set of companies, including distributors and third party logistics providers as well as our customers' in-house solutions.. Through imports of DRAM components and modules and Flash products, we face some of the same competitors in Brazil as we do elsewhere. We also face competition from local manufacturers of DRAM modules and Flash products, and expect to face competition in the future from local start-up semiconductor packaging companies, such as Adata Integration Brazil S/A, which began production of its new packaging plant in Brazil in the first half of calendar year 2017. We believe that import duties and local content requirements in Brazil give us an advantage over companies that import DRAM modules or Flash products or import memory components; however, that competitive advantage may become less significant in the event that competitors build manufacturing facilities in Brazil or local content regulations change or are eliminated. As the local market grows, competition may increase in Brazil.. We face competition from existing competitors and expect to face new companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative products, which may be less costly or provide additional features. We also face competition from current and prospective customers that evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. Competition may also arise due to the development of cooperative relationships among our current and potential competitors and/or suppliers or third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors and/or suppliers may emerge and acquire significant market share.. 22. We expect that our competitors will continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new products that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in sales or market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that may render our technology or products obsolete or uncompetitive. To remain competitive, we must continue to provide technologically advanced products and manufacturing services, maintain high quality, offer flexible delivery schedules, deliver finished products on a reliable basis, reduce manufacturing and testing costs, and compete favorably on the basis of price. Competitive pressure has led in the past and may continue to lead to intensified price competition resulting in lower net sales and profit margins which could negatively impact our financial performance. Our efforts to maintain and improve our competitive position, or our failure to do so, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Industry consolidation and company failures may reduce the number of our potential customers, increase our reliance on our existing key customers and negatively impact the competitiveness of our supplier base.. Our customer and supplier markets are characterized by a limited number of large companies. Some participants in the industries in which we serve have merged and/or been acquired, and this trend may continue. In addition, there have been company failures among both our customer and supplier base. Industry consolidation and company failures could decrease the number of potential significant customers for our products and services. Consolidation and company failures in some of our customers' industries may also result in the loss of customers. The decrease in the number of potential significant customers will increase our reliance on key customers and, due to the increased size of these companies, may negatively impact our bargaining position and thus our profit margins. Furthermore, the loss of, or a relatively reduced relationship with, key customers due to industry consolidation and company failures could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, consolidation and company failures in our supplier base could reduce our purchasing alternatives and reduce the competition for our business resulting in higher cost of goods and less availability of components which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Customer demand is difficult to forecast accurately and, as a result, we may be unable to optimally match purchasing and production to customer demand, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In most cases we do not obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments from our customers but instead we work with our customers to develop non-binding estimates or forecasts of future requirements. Utilizing these non-binding estimates or forecasts, we make significant decisions based on our estimates of customer requirements including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production scheduling, component purchasing and procurement commitments, inventory levels, personnel and production facility needs and other resource requirements. A variety of conditions, both specific to each individual customer and generally affecting each customer's industry, may cause customers to cancel, reduce or delay orders that were either previously made or anticipated, and often with little or no notice to us. Generally, customers may cancel, reduce or delay purchase orders and commitments without penalty. The short-term and flexible nature of commitments by many of our customers, and the possibility of unexpected changes in demand for their products, reduces our ability to accurately estimate future customer requirements. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can challenge our resources and can reduce profit margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers' demands. Downturns in the markets in which our customers compete can, and have, caused our customers to significantly reduce the amount of products ordered from us or to cancel or delay existing orders leading to lower utilization of our facilities. This in turn can cause us to have more inventory than we need and can result in inventory write-downs or write-offs. Additionally, as many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, reduction in customer demand would have an adverse effect on our operating income, results of operations and financial condition.. 23. We may experience inventory write-downs or write-offs.. To the extent we manufacture products or make purchases in anticipation of future demand that does not materialize, or in the event a customer cancels or reduces outstanding orders, we could experience an unanticipated increase in our inventory. We have had in the past and expect we could again have in the future, inventory write-downs and/or write-offs due to obsolescence, excess quantities and declines in market value below our costs. In particular, if product obsolescence causes product demand to decrease or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory or record under-utilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our profit margins and our profitability. Any one or more of these occurrences could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. In connection with delivering our supply chain services, we make significant inventory purchases based on customer forecasts and/or customer purchase orders. In most instances, forecasts are non-binding and purchase orders can be rescheduled at the customer's option, often times without penalty. When actual consumption does not meet the customer's forecast or the customer's purchase orders, it will result in unanticipated and sometimes significant increases in our inventory. Additionally, some of our logistics transactions contemplate extended periods of inventory management. These programs generally obligate customers to eventually purchase certain aged logistics inventory with minimal right to price reductions, and typically provide for periodic carrying charges. We can provide no assurance, however, that the customers will comply with these obligations. If a customer of our supply chain services has significant delays in delivery of inventory, this could have a negative impact on our profitability. If a customer of our supply chain services fails to consume the inventory that we purchase for it, this could result in significant inventory write-downs or write-offs. Any one or more of these occurrences could have a significant negative impact on our cash flows, business, results of operations and financial condition. At the end of each of the last four fiscal quarters, logistics inventory (including inventory specifically requested by customers) ranged between 32% and 38% of our total inventory.. New product development requires significant investment. Our failure to develop new or enhanced products and introduce them in a timely manner would undermine our competitiveness.. The memory market is subject to rapid technological change, product obsolescence, frequent new product introductions and feature enhancements, changes in end-user requirements and evolving industry standards. Our ability to successfully compete and to continue to grow our business depends in significant part upon our ability to develop, introduce and sell new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to anticipate and respond to changing customer requirements. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, delays and unanticipated expenses in the development and introduction of new products. A failure to develop products with required feature sets or performance standards, or a delay as short as a number of weeks in bringing a new product to market could significantly reduce our return on investment as well as our net sales, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Delays in the development, introduction and qualification of new products could provide a competitor a first-to-market advantage and allow a competitor to achieve greater market share. These delays could also result in customers having the right to cancel orders without penalty. Defects or errors found in our products after sampling or commencement of commercial shipments could result in delays in market acceptance of our products. Lack of market acceptance for our new products for any reason would jeopardize our ability to recoup substantial research and development expenditures, hurt our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, we can provide no assurance that our future product development efforts will be successful or result in products that gain market acceptance.. We have invested in the past and expect in the future to invest in new technologies and emerging markets. If these new technologies and emerging markets fail to gain acceptance or grow, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in embedded Flash-based products. There is significant competition in these markets and we can provide no assurance that we will develop and introduce products in a timely manner or that our new products will gain market acceptance, be price competitive or result in any significant increase in our net sales. If these investments fail to provide the expected returns, then such failure would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 24. Our OEM customers require that our products undergo a lengthy and expensive process of evaluation and qualification without any assurance of net sales.. Our products are often incorporated into our OEM customers' systems at the design stage. As a result, we rely on OEMs to select our product designs, which we refer to as design wins, and then to qualify our products for production buys. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that any OEM will select our product for design into its system. Additionally, in some instances, we are dependent on third parties to obtain or provide information that we need to achieve a design win. These third parties may not supply this information to us on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its system, we cannot be assured that they will qualify or use our product in production, that the OEM's product will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant orders as a result of that design win or qualification. Generally, our OEM customers are not obligated to purchase our products even if we get a design win. If we are unable to achieve design wins or if our OEM customers' systems incorporating our products are not commercially successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, because the qualification process is both product-specific and platform-specific, our existing customers sometimes require us to requalify our products, or to qualify our new products, for use in new platforms or applications. For example, as our OEM customers transition from second generation double date-rate, or DDR2, DRAM architectures to third generation DDR, or DDR3, or fourth generation DDR, or DDR4, DRAM architectures, we must design and qualify new products for use by those customers. In the past, the process of design and qualification has taken several months to complete, during which time our net sales to those customers declined significantly. After our products are qualified, it can take several months before the customer begins production and we begin to generate net sales from such customer.. Likewise, when our suppliers discontinue production of components, it may be necessary for us to design and qualify new products for our customers. Such customers may require of us or we may decide to purchase an estimated quantity of discontinued memory components necessary to ensure a steady supply of existing products until products with new components can be qualified. Purchases of this nature may affect our liquidity. Additionally, our estimation of quantities required during the transition may be incorrect, which could adversely impact our results of operations through lost revenue opportunities or charges related to excess and obsolete inventory.. We must devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, to qualify our products with prospective customers in anticipation of sales. Significant delays in the qualification process could result in an inability to keep up with rapid technological change or new, competitive technologies. If we delay or do not succeed in qualifying a product with an existing or prospective customer, we will not be able to sell that product to that customer, which may result in us losing potential revenue and holding excess or obsolete inventory, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our OEM customers decide to utilize a standardized memory solution instead of our specialty memory products, our net sales and market share may decline.. Many of our specialty memory products are specifically designed for our OEM customers' systems. In an effort to reduce costs and assure supply of their memory module requirements, a number of our OEM customers design commodity JEDEC-standard DRAM modules into their products. Although we also manufacture JEDEC-standard modules, an increase in such efforts by our customers could reduce the demand for our higher priced specialized or customized memory solutions, which in turn would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, when customers utilizing custom memory solutions choose to adopt a JEDEC-standard instead of a custom module, new competitors producing standardized memory modules may take a portion of our customers' business previously purchased from us.. 25. Our dependence on a small number of sole or limited source suppliers subjects us to certain risks, including the risk that we may be unable to obtain adequate supplies at reasonable prices and in a timely manner.. We are dependent upon a small number of sole or limited source suppliers for certain materials, including certain critical components, we use in manufacturing our products. We purchase almost all of our materials from our suppliers on a purchase order basis and generally do not have long-term commitments from suppliers. Our suppliers are not required to supply us with any minimum quantities and there is no assurance that our suppliers will supply the quantities of components we may need to meet our production goals. Our major suppliers include Samsung, Micron and SK Hynix. These suppliers also compete with us in the memory market. For example, while Samsung, Micron and SK Hynix all sell DRAM modules to us, and Samsung and Micron supply us with DRAM ICs, Flash ICs and finished products, they also compete with us by selling DRAM ICs and modules and Flash ICs and finished products to many of our customers, usually focusing on higher volume commodity products. Samsung is also a significant customer, as Samsung's smartphone division purchases eMCPs from us, and its PC division purchases DRAM modules from us.. In Brazil, we purchase the wafers used in our memory products exclusively from a single global memory wafer supplier. The target volume and pricing of wafers are established annually, and our purchases are generally made monthly on a purchase order basis and are not cancelable. In the event that our wafer supply relationship or our purchase orders are terminated, or if our supplier's production of silicon wafers is reduced or disrupted, we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high-quality wafers at reasonable prices, and in a timely manner, to fulfill our Brazilian customers' requirements. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will reach agreement with our wafer supplier on the pricing and quantities of wafers that they will supply and we will purchase.. The markets in which we operate have experienced, and may experience in the future, shortages in components, including DRAM and Flash ICs, which are essential components of our memory products. These shortages cause some suppliers to place their customers, including us, on component allocation. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the components that we need to fill customer orders. If any of our suppliers experience quality control or intellectual property infringement problems, we may not be able to fill customer orders. Furthermore, our products that utilize that supplier's components may be disqualified by one or more of our customers and we may not be able to fill their orders. The inability to fill customer orders could cause delays, customer cancellations, disruptions or reductions in product shipments or require costly product redesigns and/or re-qualifications which could, in turn, damage relationships with current or prospective customers, increase costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A disruption in or termination of our supply relationship with any of our significant suppliers or our inability to develop relationships with new suppliers, if required, would cause delays, disruptions or reductions in product manufacturing and shipments or require product redesigns which could damage relationships with our customers, increase our costs or the prices we need to charge for our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, we may not become or remain profitable and our future profitability could be materially adversely affected.. The memory industry is characterized by constant and rapid technological changes and product obsolescence. For example, new manufacturing process technologies using smaller feature sizes and offering better performance characteristics are generally introduced every one to two years. The introduction of new manufacturing process technologies allows us to increase the functionality of our products while at the same time optimizing performance parameters, decreasing power consumption and/or increasing storage capacity. In order to remain competitive, it is essential that we secure the capabilities to develop and qualify new manufacturing process technologies. If we are delayed in transitioning to new technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If the lifecycle of a product is shortened as a result of the introduction of a new technology, we may be forced to transition our manufacturing capabilities to a new configuration more quickly than originally planned. This can result in increased capital and other expenditures. This can also cause decreases in demand for the older technology products and our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity to be under-utilized. As a result, we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets,. 26. which would increase our expenses. When new technologies are introduced, the capacity to manufacture the new products often cannot meet the demand and product shortages can arise. If our suppliers cannot support such demand, we may not be able to fill customer orders or participate in new markets as they emerge.. Our manufacturing efficiency can significantly affect our results of operations, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. We continuously modify our manufacturing processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance and decrease costs. During periods when we are implementing new process technologies, manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive and may experience higher than acceptable defect rates. We may fail to achieve acceptable yields or may experience product delivery delays as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, delays in the development of new process technologies, increased defect rates, changes in our process technologies, upgrades or expansion of existing facilities, impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process. Any of these occurrences could adversely impact our relationships with customers, cause harm to our reputation in the marketplace, cause customers to move future business to our competitors or cause us to make financial concessions to our customers. Improving our manufacturing efficiency in future periods is dependent on our ability to:. •  develop advanced process technologies and advanced products that utilize those technologies;. •  successfully transition to more advanced process technologies;. •  continue to reduce test times;. •  ramp product and process technology improvements rapidly and effectively to commercial volumes across our facilities;. •  achieve acceptable levels of manufacturing output and yields, which may decrease as we implement more advanced technologies; and. •  maintain our quality controls and rely upon the quality and process controls of our suppliers.. Disruption of our operations at our manufacturing facilities would substantially harm our business.. A disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could adversely impact our manufacturing operations and consequently our customer relations and our business. Such a disruption could result from, among other things, sustained process abnormalities, government intervention, waste disposal issues, power failures or other circumstances, or from ramp-up related challenges, such as obtaining sufficient raw materials, hiring of qualified factory personnel, installation and efficient operation of new equipment and management and coordination of our logistics networks within our global operations. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with business interruption; however, our insurance may not cover all or any part of a particular loss. Since a large percentage of our production is done in a small number of facilities, a disruption to operations, or a loss that is in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If our products are defective or are used in defective systems, we may be subject to warranty, product recalls or product liability claims.. If our products are defectively manufactured, contain defective components or are used in defective or malfunctioning systems, we could be subject to warranty and product liability claims and product recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices. While we have product liability insurance coverage, it may not be adequate to satisfy claims made against us. We also may be unable to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Warranty and product liability claims or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation, and on our ability to attract and retain customers. In addition, we may determine that it is in our best interest to accept product returns in circumstances where we are not contractually obligated to do so to maintain good relations with our customers. Accepting product returns may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.. 27. Our indemnification obligations to our customers and suppliers for product defects, intellectual property infringement and other matters could require us to pay substantial damages.. A number of our product sales and product purchase agreements provide that we will defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from various matters including, without limitation, product warranty claims or claims for injury or damage resulting from defects in, or usage of, our products or the products of our suppliers. In addition, we currently have in effect a number of agreements in which we agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our customers and suppliers from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement or alleged infringement by our products of third-party patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights. We periodically have to respond to claims and may have to litigate indemnification obligations in the future.. Indemnification obligations could require us to expend significant amounts of money to defend claims and/or to pay damages or settlement amounts. We maintain insurance to protect against certain claims associated with the use of our products; however, our insurance may not cover all or any part of a claim asserted against us. Our insurance does not cover intellectual property infringement in most instances. A claim brought against us that is in excess of, or excluded from, our insurance coverage could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may need to raise additional funds, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. We may need to raise additional funds, which we may seek to obtain through, among other things, public or private equity offerings and debt financings. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, without limitation, our levels of net sales, our levels of inventory, the timing and extent of expenditures to support research and development activities, the expansion of manufacturing and test capacity and the continued market acceptance of our products. Additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing shareholders may experience dilution and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our then existing shareholders. If we incur additional debt, it may increase our leverage relative to our earnings or to our equity capitalization, as well as impose financial and operating covenants that could restrict the operations of our business. In addition, our existing indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future, as discussed in greater detail below under \" - Risks Relating to our Debt - Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and harm our ability to operate our business.\". In fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, we spent $18.7 million, $13.8 million and $31.7 million, respectively, on capital expenditures, which we used, among other things, to expand manufacturing and test capacity as well as research and development. We plan to continue to make capital expenditures in the future. If our expected returns on these investments are not achieved, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If adequate capital is not available when needed, we may be required to modify our business model and operations to reduce spending. This could cause us to be unable to execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or customer requirements. It may also cause us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs, or to reduce or cease operations, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 28. We may make acquisitions of companies and/or technologies which involve numerous risks. If we are not successful in integrating the technologies, operations and personnel of acquired businesses or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. As part of our business and growth strategy, we may acquire or make significant investments in businesses, products or technologies in an effort to complement our existing product offering, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Any acquisitions or investments would expose us to the risks commonly encountered in acquisitions of businesses or technologies. Such risks include, among others:. •  problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, products or personnel;. •  unanticipated costs or expenses associated with an acquisition or investment, including write-offs of goodwill or other intangible assets;. •  negative effects on profitability resulting from an acquisition or investment;. •  adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. •  risks associated with entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience and markets with complex government regulations;. •  loss of key employees of the acquired business; and. •  litigation arising from an acquired company's operations.. Problems encountered in connection with an acquisition could divert the attention of management, utilize scarce corporate resources and otherwise harm our business. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue ordinary shares that would dilute our existing shareholders' percentage ownership, incur substantial additional debt, expend cash and reduce our cash reserves or assume additional liabilities. Furthermore, acquisitions may require material charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, deferred compensation charges, liabilities under earn-out provisions, the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill or other intangibles, any of which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. We may expend significant resources and management time pursuing an acquisition that we are unable to consummate. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we do undertake. Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they may have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies.. In connection with the sale of the Storage Business, we agreed to indemnify SanDisk against specified losses.. In August 2013, we completed the sale of substantially all of the business unit which was focused on solid state drives, which we referred to as the Storage Business, to SanDisk (now a part of Western Digital) for approximately $304 million in cash, subject to certain escrows and holdbacks. The sale agreement for the Storage Business, or the Sale Agreement, contained certain indemnification obligations that are typical for transactions of this nature, including, among others, for losses arising from breaches of our representations and warranties relating to the sale, as well as for taxes arising with respect to pre-closing tax periods. These indemnification obligations are subject to a number of limitations, including certain deductibles and caps and limited time periods for making indemnification claims. At the closing of the sale, $30.5 million of the purchase price was placed into a third party escrow to secure certain of our indemnification obligations. On August 21, 2014, SanDisk made a claim against us under the indemnification provisions of the Sale Agreement in connection with a lawsuit filed by Netlist, Inc., or Netlist, against SanDisk alleging that certain products of the Storage Business that we sold to SanDisk, infringe various Netlist patents, which SanDisk in turn alleges would, if true, constitute a breach of representations and warranties under the Sale Agreement. Under the Sale Agreement, our indemnification obligation in respect of. 29. intellectual property matters, including those claimed by SanDisk, is subject to a deductible of approximately $1.8 million and a cap of $60.9 million. The SanDisk claim included what purported to be an estimate of SanDisk's alleged indemnifiable losses that is greater than the cap in the Sale Agreement for intellectual property matters.. On December 4, 2014, we entered into an agreement with SanDisk to release the entire balance of the third party escrow, and on December 5, 2014, we received $30.5 million that had previously been held in escrow. Following the release of the escrow, our board declared a $28.3 million cash distribution out of our share premium account which was paid in January 2015 to shareholders of record on January 1, 2015. The release of the escrow amount by SanDisk does not relieve us of our indemnification obligations to SanDisk, and SanDisk has not amended or reduced the amount of its indemnification claim.. We believe that the allegations giving rise to the indemnification claim are without merit and we intend to dispute SanDisk's claim for indemnification. In addition, there may be other grounds for us to dispute the indemnification claim and/or the amounts of any indemnifiable losses of SanDisk. While we believe that the infringement claims are without merit, we can provide no assurance that SanDisk will be successful in defending the infringement claims or that we will otherwise be successful in disputing the indemnification claim and/or the amount of indemnifiable losses. In addition to the infringement claim described above, we continue to have an obligation to indemnify SanDisk for certain specified matters, including tax obligations for pre-closing tax periods, some of which indemnification obligations are capped at certain amounts and survive for periods of time set forth in the Sale Agreement. An indemnity claim brought against us by SanDisk, including the claim described above, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our future success is dependent on our ability to retain key personnel, including our executive officers, and to attract qualified personnel. If we lose the services of these individuals or are unable to attract new talent, our business may be adversely affected.. Our future operating results depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key senior management and technical personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We are particularly dependent on the continued service of Iain MacKenzie, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Jack Pacheco, our Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified management, manufacturing and quality assurance, engineering, design, finance, marketing, sales and support personnel. We are continually recruiting such personnel in various parts of the world. However, competition for such personnel can be strong and we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel now or in the future. In addition, particularly in the high-technology industry, the value of stock options, RSUs, grants or other share-based compensation is an important element in the retention of employees. Declines in the value of our ordinary shares after our initial public offering, or IPO, could adversely affect our ability to retain employees and we may have to take additional steps to make the equity component of our compensation packages more attractive to attract and retain employees. These steps could result in dilution to shareholders.. In Brazil in particular, there is limited availability of labor with the technical skills required for our operations. As a result, we rely heavily on our ability to train personnel or relocate individuals from outside of the country. Relocation from a foreign country is expensive. To keep pace with our anticipated growth in Brazil, we anticipate the need to increase the number of our technical personnel. Additionally, to meet the obligations associated with certain tax incentives, we are required to invest in research and development activities which could require an increase in engineering and other technical personnel. To the extent that competitors enter or expand in the local market, our labor force could be targeted, which could result in the loss of personnel and/or the increase in wages to retain personnel.. The loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to adequately perform in his or her current position, our inability to attract, train and retain skilled employees as needed or the inability of our key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 30. We rely, in part, on third-party sales representatives to assist in selling our products, and the failure of these representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales.. Sales of our products to some of our OEM customers are accomplished, in part, through the efforts of third-party sales representatives. We are unable to predict the extent to which these third-party sales representatives will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of these third-party sales representatives also market and sell competing products and may more aggressively pursue sales of our competitors' products. Our third-party sales representatives may terminate their relationships with us at any time on short or no notice. Our future performance may also depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional third-party sales representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously sold our products. If we cannot retain our current third-party sales representatives or recruit additional or replacement third-party sales representatives or if these sales representatives are not effective, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, know-how, trademarks, copyright and, to a lesser extent, patents. We do not own or apply for patents in respect of the majority of our products. The absence of patent protection for most of our products means that we cannot prevent our competitors from reverse-engineering and duplicating our products.. We believe that our continued success depends largely on the technical expertise we have developed in manufacturing and designing products, and we rely on confidential proprietary information, including trade secrets and know-how to develop and maintain our competitive position. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. We seek to protect our confidential proprietary information, in part, by confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, contractors and collaborators. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information, however, we cannot be certain that such agreements have been entered into with all relevant parties, and we cannot be certain that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. For example, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our confidential proprietary information by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems, but it is possible that these security measures could be breached. If any of our confidential proprietary information were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent such competitor from using that technology or information to compete with us, which could harm our competitive position.. It is possible that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not:. •  prevent our competitors from independently developing similar products, duplicating our products or from designing around the patents owned by us;. •  prevent third-party patents from having an adverse effect on our ability to do business;. •  prevent disputes with third parties regarding ownership of our intellectual property rights;. •  prevent the challenge, invalidation or circumvention of our existing patents;. •  result in issued patents or registered trademarks from any of our pending applications; or. •  result in patents that lead to commercially viable products or provide competitive advantages for our products.. 31. If any of our issued patents are found to be invalid or if any of our patent applications are rejected, our ability to exclude competitors from making, using or selling the same or similar products as us could be compromised. In addition, because we conduct a substantial portion of our operations and sell a large percentage of our products outside the United States, we have exposure to intellectual property risks from operating in foreign countries, many of which have laws that may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights.. Activities in the area of intellectual property rights, including litigation and various patent processes can cause us to incur substantial expenses. We are currently involved in contested proceedings, which may result in decisions against us.. The markets in which we compete are characterized by frequent claims alleging misappropriation of trade secrets or infringement of patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged infringement of such intellectual property rights on technologies that are important to our business. We can provide no assurance that third parties will not in the future pursue claims against us or our customers with respect to the alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. In addition, litigation or other legal and technical processes may be necessary to protect our intellectual property rights, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against third party claims of infringement and/or invalidity. Litigation and other legal and administrative processes, whether as plaintiff, defendant, or otherwise, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, whether or not such litigation or other processes are ultimately determined in our favor. In the event of an adverse result in, or a settlement of, a litigation matter, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts; cease the manufacture, use, import and sale of certain products or components; expend significant resources to develop or acquire rights to use non-infringing technology; and/or discontinue the use of certain processes or obtain licenses and pay one-time fees and/or on-going royalties to use the infringing or allegedly infringing technology. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase our expenses. Alternate technology development or license negotiations would likely result in significant expenses and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We cannot assure that we would be successful in such development or negotiations. Moreover, there could be public announcements of the results of interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these announcements or results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares.. We are currently involved in patent litigation with Netlist. In our proceeding with Netlist, we filed a complaint against Netlist, alleging infringement of certain claims of one of our patents. Netlist filed certain counterclaims and has sought compensatory damages for the harm it claims to have suffered, as well as an award of treble damages and attorneys' fees.. As we increase our sales, develop more technology and expand our product offerings, the possibility of being involved in more intellectual property contests grows. Increased intellectual property contests could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not have rights to manufacture and sell particular products that we currently offer, or we may be required to pay a royalty to sell certain products.. The memory and storage markets are constantly undergoing rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon technology to which they have proprietary rights and that we require a license to manufacture and/or sell certain of our products. If we are unable to supply certain products at competitive prices due to royalty payments we are required to make or at all because we were unable to secure a required license, our customers might cancel orders or seek other suppliers to replace us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 32. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax regulations or rates, or changes in the geographic dispersion of our net sales, or changes in other tax benefits, may adversely affect our income, value-added and other taxes, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities in the United States and abroad; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or regulations or tax rates; changes in the interpretation or application of tax laws; changes in tax regulations or rates; increases or decreases in the amount of net sales or earnings in countries with particularly high or low statutory tax rates; changes in exemptions from taxes in certain jurisdictions or in connection with certain transactions; or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, taxable income in any jurisdiction is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. Due to inconsistencies in application of the arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our income tax expense. While we enjoy and expect to continue to enjoy beneficial tax treatment in certain foreign jurisdictions, most notably Brazil and Malaysia, we are subject to meeting specific conditions in order to receive the beneficial treatment. Additionally, many of the beneficial treatments must be renewed periodically, and our enjoyment thereof is conditioned upon compliance with several legal requirements and is subject to change. See \" - Risks Relating to our International Operations - If the tax incentive or tax holiday arrangements from which we benefit in Brazil or Malaysia change or cease to be in effect or applicable in part or in whole, for any reason, or if our assumptions and interpretations regarding tax laws and incentive or holiday arrangements prove to be incorrect, the amount of corporate income, excise, import and contribution taxes we have to pay could increase significantly.\". We are subject to tax examination in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, including in Brazil where we have had several audits and are currently being audited with respect to certain taxes. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from current examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any examinations will be in the amounts of our estimates.. Any significant variance in the results of an examination as compared to our estimates, any failure to continue to receive any beneficial tax treatment in any of our foreign locations or any increase in our future effective tax rates due to any of the factors set forth above or otherwise could reduce net income and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If Brazilian administrative tax courts find that we have used an incorrect product code on our imports, then the amount of taxes, interest and penalties that we have to pay on past transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. On February 23, 2012, Brazilian federal tax authorities served our Brazilian operating subsidiary, SMART Brazil, with a tax assessment for approximately R$117.0 million (or $37.4 million), alleging that SMART Brazil had incorrectly used an import product classification code for its imports of unmounted ICs for the five calendar years of 2007 through and including 2011. Brazilian federal tax authorities subsequently served a second assessment for an administrative penalty of approximately R$6.0 million (or $1.9 million) for the alleged use of an improper import code. Each assessment is subject to increases for interest and other charges.. In March 2012, SMART Brazil filed defenses to the tax assessments. On May 2, 2013, the first level administrative tax court ruled in favor of the tax authorities and against SMART Brazil for the first tax assessment, but did not rule on the second assessment for the administrative penalty. SMART Brazil filed an appeal on May 31, 2013 at the second level tax court known as CARF. SMART Brazil's appeal resulted in a unanimous favorable decision rejecting the position of the tax authorities. Subsequently, the tax authorities filed a request for clarification of certain points in the decision published by CARF, and on September 17, 2014, we received a unanimous ruling rejecting the tax authorities request for clarification. On November 7, 2014, the tax authorities notified CARF that they would not be appealing the CARF decision. As a result, the R$117.0 million (or $37.4 million) tax assessment has been extinguished. We have not received a decision from the first level administrative court with respect to the second notice of assessment for the administrative penalty.. 33. Due to the issuance of these tax assessments, Brazilian federal tax authorities conducted an enrollment of assets of SMART Brazil. Brazilian legislation states that whenever the sum of the debts owed to the Brazilian Revenue Service exceeds 30% of the known equity of a company and R$2.0 million (or $0.6 million), the Brazilian Revenue Service may conduct an enrollment of assets of the company, which is a means of monitoring the company's equity. During this period, the taxpayer must notify the Brazilian Revenue Service of any disposal, encumbrance or transfer of the assets or rights enrolled within five days from the occurrence of the act; if the company does not provide such notice, then the Brazilian Revenue Service may file a tax injunction. The enrollment does not constitute a lien or encumbrance on the assets. The assets covered by the enrollment are typically assets classified as fixed assets or non-current assets and include assets that are subject to any form of registration before a public deed service or equivalent, such as real estate and vehicles. Other assets may be subject to enrollment in the event that the assets described above are not sufficient to satisfy the amount of the tax liability. The enrollment does not create any limitation or prohibition against remitting dividends or making cash payments of interest on equity. As the first assessment for R$117.0 million (or $37.4 million) has been extinguished, SMART Brazil has petitioned to have the enrollment cancelled. While the tax authorities have substantially reduced the amount of the enrollment to R$13.9 million (or $4.4 million) as of January 31, 2017, there can be no assurance that the enrollment will be cancelled unless all of the assessments are extinguished.. On December 12, 2013, SMART Brazil received another notice of assessment in the amount of R$3.6 million (or $1.1 million) with respect to the same import-related tax issues and penalties as discussed above. This new assessment does not seek import duties and related taxes on DRAM products and only seeks import duties and related taxes on Flash unmounted components with respect to the months of January 2012 to June 2012. This is because SMART Brazil's imports of DRAM unmounted components were subject to 0%, and after June 2012, SMART Brazil's imports of Flash unmounted components became subject to 0%, import duties and related taxes as a result of PADIS. Even with this 0%, if SMART Brazil is found to have used the incorrect product classification code, SMART Brazil will be subject to an administrative penalty equal to 1% of the value of the imports. SMART Brazil has filed defenses to this assessment.. We can provide no assurance that SMART Brazil ultimately will prevail on the remaining tax assessments or the administrative penalties, and no amounts have been accrued in the financial statements for any such assessments or penalties. In addition, in the event that SMART Brazil does not prevail, the amount of the assessments and the penalties and interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards are limited.. As of August 25, 2017, we had U.S. federal and California state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $99.8 million and $58.1 million, respectively. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will expire, if not utilized, in fiscal 2023 through fiscal 2037, and the California net operating loss carryforwards will expire in fiscal 2018 through fiscal 2037, both in varying amounts, if not utilized. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset its post-change taxable income may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" will occur if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by certain \"5-percent shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. Our net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations per Section 382 of the Code. We have experienced ownership changes in the past, and we may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of future transactions in our ordinary shares, some changes of which may be outside our control. As a result, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset post-change U.S. federal and state taxable income may be subject to additional limitations.. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. Under U.S. GAAP, we review our long-lived intangible and tangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in our share price and. 34. market capitalization or future cash flow projections. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined. Impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, foreign and international laws and regulatory regimes. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could subject us to, among other things, mandatory product recalls, penalties and investigation and legal expenses which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to regulation by various U.S. federal and state governmental agencies. Such regulation includes, without limitation, the radio frequency emission regulatory activities of the Federal Communications Commission, the antitrust regulatory activities of the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the Department of Justice, the consumer protection laws of the FTC, the import/export regulatory activities of the Department of Commerce, the product safety regulatory activities of the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the regulatory activities of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the environmental regulatory activities of the Environmental Protection Agency, the labor regulatory activities of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the export control regulatory activities of the Department of State, and tax and other regulations by a variety of regulatory authorities in each of the areas in which we conduct business. We are also subject to similar, and in some cases additional, regulation in other countries where we conduct business, including import and export laws and foreign currency control. In certain jurisdictions, such regulatory requirements may be more stringent and complex than in the United States. We are also subject to a variety of U.S. federal and state employment and labor laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, the Worker Adjustment and Restructuring Notification Act, which requires employers to give affected employees at least 60 days' notice of a plant closing or a mass layoff, and other regulations related to working conditions, wage-hour pay, overtime pay, employee benefits, antidiscrimination and termination of employment.. Like other companies operating or selling internationally, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other laws which generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. companies and their intermediaries for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. We are also subject to similar or even more restrictive anticorruption laws imposed by the governments of other countries where we do business, including the UK Bribery Act, the Malaysian Anticorruption Act and the Brazil Clean Company Act. We make sales and operate in countries known to experience corruption that are rated as high-risk nations. Our business activities in such countries create the risk of unauthorized conduct by one or more of our employees, consultants, customs brokers, freight forwarders, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA or similar local regulations. In addition, we may be held liable for actions taken by such parties even though such parties are not subject to the FCPA or similar laws. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA or similar laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our Brazilian operations are subject to periodic and regular investigations by labor officials and governmental bodies, including the Brazilian Ministry of Labor and the Brazilian Labor Public Prosecutor's Office, with respect to our compliance with labor rules and regulations. These investigations could result in fines and proceedings that may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, disbarment from government projects, fines, damages and civil and criminal penalties or injunctions that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, from time to time we have received, and may receive in the future, correspondence from former employees and parties with whom we have done business with, threatening to bring claims against us alleging that we have violated one or more regulations related to customs, labor and employment, foreign currency control or other laws or regulations. An adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding related to such matters could require us to pay damages, attorneys' fees and/or other costs.. 35. If any governmental sanctions were to be imposed, or if we were not to prevail in any civil action or criminal proceeding, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any litigation or action would likely result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources and a significant increase in professional fees.. We could incur substantial costs or liabilities as a result of violations of environmental laws.. Our operations and properties are subject to a variety of U.S., foreign government and international environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, environmental licensing and registries, protection of flora and fauna, air emissions, use of water resources, wastewater discharges, management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials and wastes, reverse logistics (take-back policy) and remediation of releases of hazardous materials. Our failure to comply with present and future requirements, or the management of known or identification of new or unknown contamination, could cause us to incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, indemnifications, compensations, fines, suspension of activities and other penalties, investments to upgrade our facilities or change our processes or curtailment of operations. For example, the presence of lead in quantities not believed to be significant have been found in the ground under one of the multi-tenant buildings we lease in Brazil. While we did not cause the contamination, we may be held responsible if remediation is required, although we may be entitled to seek indemnification from responsible parties under Brazilian law and from our lessor under our lease. The identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory agencies, enactment of more stringent laws and regulations or other unanticipated events may arise in the future and give rise to material environmental liabilities and related costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Worldwide political conditions and threats of terrorist attacks may adversely affect our operations and demand for our products.. Armed conflicts around the world could have an impact on our sales, our supply chain and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Political and economic instability in some regions of the world could also have a negative impact on our business. More generally, various events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease, or could result in increased economic or financial volatility, any of which could result in a decrease in demand for our products.. Additionally, the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks may in the future adversely affect demand for our products. In addition, such attacks may negatively affect our operations directly or indirectly and such attacks or other armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Such attacks may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, ultimately having a negative effect on our business.. Any such occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations in different parts of the world could be subject to natural disasters, health epidemics and other business disruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition.. Our operations in different parts of the world could be subject to natural disasters, including earthquakes, monsoons, cyclones and floods. For example, our United States headquarters in Newark, California is located near major earthquake fault lines. Our manufacturing facility in Penang, Malaysia is also prone to natural disasters, such as cyclones, monsoons and floods. In the event of a major earthquake, cyclone, monsoon or other natural or manmade disaster, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, any of which could materially adversely affect our business.. 36. In addition, our business could be adversely affected by the outbreak of influenza A (H1N1), avian influenza, H7N9, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), Zika, ebola or other pandemics. Any occurrence of these pandemic diseases or other adverse public health developments in Malaysia or elsewhere could severely disrupt our business or the business of our customers and suppliers, which could materially adversely affect our business.. Since a large percentage of our production is done in a small number of facilities, a disruption to operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Relating to our International Operations. Significant changes in the political or economic environments in Brazil or Malaysia could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have extensive operations in Malaysia and significant operations and sales in Brazil. The governments of these countries frequently intervene in their respective economies and occasionally make significant changes in policies and regulations. The Brazilian government's actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as the market price of our securities, may be adversely affected by changes in these and in other countries, to policies or regulations involving or affecting general economic factors, such as:. •  interest rates;. •  exchange rates and currency controls and restrictions on the movement of capital out of country, such as those which were briefly imposed in 1989 and early 1990 in Brazil;. •  currency fluctuations;. •  import and export controls;. •  inflation;. •  liquidity of the domestic capital and lending markets;. •  reduction or cancellation of tax incentives to which we are currently entitled;. •  other changes to tax and regulatory policies; and. •  other political, social and economic developments.. A major corruption scandal involving Brazil's largest energy company, Petrobras, began to unfold in 2014, and by 2015 contributed to a significant decrease in the value of the Brazilian real, which in turn led to a substantial downturn in the Brazilian economy and a substantial rise in unemployment, and ultimately resulted in the impeachment of the president of the country. We cannot predict what fiscal, monetary, social and other policies will be adopted by the new administration or whether the economic policies that were adopted by the prior administration will be maintained. Uncertainties and speculation about actions of the new administration may result in further adverse consequences to the Brazilian economy and to our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, market conditions in Brazil have been volatile during this time of significant change due to these uncertainties, which may influence investors' perception of risk in Brazil.. 37. If the tax incentive or tax holiday arrangements from which we benefit in Brazil or Malaysia change or cease to be in effect or applicable in part or in whole, for any reason, or if our assumptions and interpretations regarding tax laws and incentive or holiday arrangements prove to be incorrect, the amount of corporate income, excise, import and contribution taxes we have to pay could increase significantly.. We have structured our operations in a manner designed to maximize our benefit from various tax incentives and/or tax holidays extended to manufacturers in Brazil and Malaysia to encourage investment and employment. In Brazil, we participate in the following government investment incentive programs, among others:. •  Support Program for the Technological Development of the Semiconductor and Display Industries (PADIS), 2007, extended in 2016. PADIS is designed to promote the development of the local semiconductor industry. In December 2010 and January 2011, the required agencies of the Brazilian government approved our application for beneficial tax treatment under the PADIS program for DRAM ICs and we began operations under the PADIS rules in February 2011. Subsequently, we received approvals for PADIS benefits for microSD cards and USB Flash drives in June 2012, mobile, or low power DRAM in March 2013, eMMC and Flash Fine-pitch Ball Grid Array, or Flash FBGA, in February 2014, eMCP in June 2014, DDR4 DRAM in July 2016, and for any other mounted components in May 2015. The PADIS benefits include: (i) relief from Brazil's corporate income tax, resulting in a reduction in the Brazilian statutory income tax rate from 34% to 9% on taxable income from the semiconductor IC portion of our operations, (ii) relief from the PIS and COFINS Contributions, the IPI, and Brazil's import tax, on both the import and domestic acquisition of fixed assets, inputs, software and sale of final products eligible for PADIS, and (iii) relief from Brazil's tax on outbound royalties, or CIDE. To realize these benefits, our subsidiary, SMART Brazil, is required to invest a percentage of its gross annual semiconductor sales revenues (reduced by the following: the cost of raw materials covered within the scope of PADIS, applicable sales taxes, the value of products exported out of Brazil and the value of products shipped to the Manaus Free Trade Zone) in research and development activities conducted in Brazil each calendar year. The applicable percentage was 3% for 2015, increasing to 4% for 2016 through 2018, and increasing to 5% for 2019 and beyond. Furthermore, SMART Brazil is not permitted to distribute to shareholders (through dividends, capital reductions or otherwise) the amount of corporate income taxes not paid as a result of the PADIS benefits. Failure to comply with our obligations under the PADIS would result in our being charged the amount of the relieved taxes, plus interest equal to the Central Bank of Brazil's overnight rate, or the SELIC rate, plus a 75% penalty and could also result in the suspension of our participation in PADIS and ultimate termination of PADIS should SMART Brazil fail to repair the infraction within 90 days or should SMART Brazil have PADIS suspended twice in the period of two years. If SMART Brazil's participation in PADIS were terminated, it would be permitted to reapply for the program only after a two-year period.. •  Lei da Informática - Processo Produtivo Básico (PPB/IT Program), 1991. Brazil's PPB/IT Program, in which we also began to participate in February 2011, is intended to promote local content by allowing qualified PPB/IT Program companies to sell certain IT products with a reduced rate of IPI as compared to the rate that is required to be collected by non-qualified suppliers. The PPB/IT Program provides an incentive for certain customers to purchase from us because our sales will not be subject to the regular level of IPI. In order to receive the intended treatment as a PPB/IT Program supplier, our subsidiary SMART do Brazil is required to invest in research and development activities conducted in Brazil in an amount equal to 3% of its gross annual sales revenues reduced by the following: the cost of raw materials qualified as products eligible for the PPB/IT Program, including the ICs that are purchased from our other Brazilian subsidiary, SMART Brazil, and that are used to make memory modules; applicable sales taxes; the value of products exported out of Brazil; and the value of products shipped to the Manaus Free Trade Zone. Failure to comply with our obligations under the PPB/IT Program would result in our being charged the amount of the relieved taxes, plus interest equal to the SELIC rate, plus a 75% penalty and could also result in the suspension of our participation in the PPB/IT Program and ultimate termination should SMART do Brazil fail to cure the infraction within 180 days.. 38. Compliance with these programs is measured annually, on a calendar year basis. We believe that we have fulfilled these research and development investment requirements through 2016; however, for certain years the authorities in Brazil have not yet completed the relevant review. For calendar years 2012 and 2013, the authorities have asserted that certain of our research and development investments may not have qualified for the PPB/IT Program. We are disputing their assertion, and the amount in question is not material. We cannot guarantee, however, that we will be able to make the required investments in the future or that the Brazilian tax authorities will agree with our classification of certain expenses as constituting research and development, in which case we may lose the anticipated benefits of these programs and could be penalized for failing to make the research and development investments when required, or for failing to pay required statutory income taxes or to collect the required IPI upon our sales. In addition, there is a risk that modifications to tax laws may prohibit, interrupt, limit, terminate early or change the use of these existing tax incentives.. In 2013, the EU, later joined by Japan, requested the establishment of a panel within the WTO to determine whether certain measures enacted by the Brazilian government concerning tax incentives and local content requirements in the automotive and several other industries including the IT industry and including PADIS, the PPB/IT Program and Lei do Bem, are inconsistent with WTO rules. In December 2016, the WTO circulated its report to the parties. This report was released to the public on August 30, 2017. In its report, the panel concluded, among other things, that the tax exemptions, reductions and suspensions granted for the automotive, IT and other industries amount to subsidies that are inconsistent with the principles of the various WTO agreements and the panel recommended that Brazil withdraw these subsidies. Government officials in Brazil have expressed their intent, if necessary, to restructure the incentives to be consistent with the WTO principles and to continue to support local industry, however, there can be no assurance that the programs will ultimately be restructured and implemented, or if implemented, whether the restructured programs will provide the same level of support as is currently in place. Brazil has notified the WTO of its decision to appeal the panel's findings. While we cannot predict the impact of the WTO's report, this recommendation could result in significant adverse changes to the benefits and incentives available to us and our customers in Brazil under PADIS and the IT/PPB Program.. Any suspension, early termination or other adverse change in the local content requirements in Brazil, or our failure to comply with the requirements of the various regulations, could significantly reduce the demand for, and the profit margins on, our products in Brazil, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, we have obtained tax incentives from Malaysia, which provide that certain classes of income we earn in Malaysia are subject to tax holidays. Each tax incentive is separate and distinct from the others and may be granted, withheld, extended, modified, truncated, complied with or terminated independently without any effect on the other incentives. To retain these tax benefits in Malaysia, we must continue to meet certain operating conditions specific to each incentive relating to, among other things, investments in fixed assets, research and development expenditures, minimum operating expenditures, required ratio of staff with degrees in science and technology, local purchasing programs, minimum numbers of patents with local involvement and registration and segregated accounting for the covered products or businesses. If we cannot or elect not to comply with the operating conditions included in any particular tax incentive, we will lose the related tax benefits. In such event, we could be required to refund material tax benefits previously realized by us with respect to that incentive and, depending on the incentive at issue, could likely be required to modify our operational structure and tax strategy. Any such modified structure or strategy may not be as beneficial to us from an income tax expense or operational perspective as the benefits provided under the present tax incentive arrangements. The Malaysian tax incentives are presently scheduled to expire at various dates in calendar 2018. If we cannot obtain new tax incentives, we could incur significant increases in our tax expense.. Our interpretations and conclusions regarding the tax incentives are not binding on any taxing authority. If our assumptions about tax and other laws are incorrect, if these tax incentives are substantially modified or rescinded or if we fail to meet the conditions of any of the tax incentives, we could suffer material adverse tax and other financial consequences including owing significant amounts of taxes and penalties that would increase our expenses, reduce our profitability and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. 39. Our business is subject to the risks generally associated with international business operations.. Sales outside of the United States accounted for 82%, 80% and 81% of our net sales in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, a significant portion of our product design and manufacturing is performed at our facilities in Brazil and Malaysia. As a result, our business is and will continue to be subject to the risks generally associated with international business operations in Brazil, Malaysia and other foreign countries, including:. •  changes in tax and other laws and regulations, including recent proposals to impose a tax on goods imported into the United States;. •  changes in social, political and economic conditions;. •  transportation delays;. •  power and other utility shutdowns or shortages;. •  limitations on foreign investment;. •  restrictions on currency convertibility and volatility of foreign exchange markets;. •  import-export quotas;. •  increased trade regulations or trade wars;. •  corruption or adverse political situations in Brazil or other markets;. •  changes in local labor conditions;. •  difficulties resulting from different employment regulations;. •  difficulties in obtaining governmental approvals;. •  expropriation and nationalization of our assets in a particular jurisdiction; and. •  restrictions on repatriation of cash, dividends or profits.. Some of the foreign countries in which we do business or have operations have been subject to social and political instability in the past, and interruptions in operations could occur in the future. Our net sales, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of the foregoing factors.. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business.. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes on matters as diverse as anticorruption, import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, anti-competition, data privacy and labor relations. This includes in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our customers or suppliers also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our customers or suppliers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate or sell, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights.. Our operations in foreign countries are more difficult to manage, which may expose us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States, which in turn could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A significant portion of our operations is outside of the United States. Additionally, international sales account for a significant portion of our overall sales. In some of the countries in which we operate or sell our products, it is. 40. difficult to recruit, employ and retain qualified personnel to manage and oversee our local operations, sales and other activities. The effects of instabilities in the labor market, including strikes, work stoppages, protests and changes in employment regulations, increases in wages and the conditions of collective bargaining agreements could directly affect the development of our activities and those of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results. Further, given our executive officers' lack of physical proximity to our foreign country activities and the inherent limitations of cross-border information flow, our executive officers may at times face extra challenges in their ability to effectively oversee the day-to-day management of our international operations. The challenges facing management to effectively recruit, employ and retain qualified personnel and to otherwise effectively manage our international operations could result in compliance, control or other issues that could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we were to lose the tax-related benefits of being a Cayman Islands company, our business could be adversely affected.. We are a Cayman Islands company and operate through subsidiaries in a number of countries throughout the world. As a result, income generated in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries is not subject to taxation in the United States. We are subject to changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in the United States, the Cayman Islands and jurisdictions in which we or any of our subsidiaries operate or are resident. In the past, legislative proposals have been introduced in the United States that, if enacted into law, could result in us being considered a U.S. company for tax purposes. This could have the effect of subjecting a larger portion of our worldwide income to U.S. taxation. While no such laws have been enacted to date, there can be no assurance that they will not be enacted in the future.. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could cause currency exchange losses, result in our products becoming relatively more expensive to our overseas customers and increase our manufacturing costs, each of which could adversely affect our business and our profitability.. Our international sales and our operations in foreign countries expose us to certain risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates. Because some of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the price of our products so that they become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, possibly leading to a reduction in sales and profitability in that country. Some of the sales of our products, including sales in Brazil, are denominated in foreign currencies. Gains and losses on the conversion to U.S. dollars of such revenues and of other associated monetary assets and liabilities, as well as profits and losses incurred in certain countries, may contribute to fluctuations in the value of our assets and our results of operations. We also have costs and expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies, and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar could result in increases in such costs that could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, fluctuating values between the U.S. dollar and other currencies can result in currency gains which are used in the computation of foreign taxes and can increase foreign taxable income. We do not presently purchase financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange risk, but we may do so in the future.. We are a holding company. If enacted, exchange controls may limit our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our foreign subsidiaries.. We conduct all of our operations through subsidiaries and are dependent on dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations and pay intercompany dividends. If enacted, restrictions on intercompany dividends or other distributions in certain jurisdictions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to transfer funds from certain subsidiaries. Additionally, Brazilian law permits the Brazilian government to impose temporary restrictions on conversions of Brazilian currency into foreign currencies and on remittances to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Brazil whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil's balance of payments or there are reasons to expect a pending serious imbalance. Aside from the remittance restrictions imposed for approximately six months in 1989 and early 1990, the Brazilian government last imposed remittance restrictions more than 25 years ago. The Brazilian government may take similar measures in the future. Any imposition of restrictions on conversions and remittances could hinder or prevent us from converting Brazilian reais into U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies and remitting abroad dividends, distributions or the proceeds from operations in Brazil.. 41. Inflation and certain measures by the Brazilian government to curb inflation have historically adversely affected the Brazilian economy and Brazilian securities market, and high levels of inflation in the future would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In the past, Brazil has experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation and some of the measures taken by the Brazilian government in an attempt to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy generally. Inflation, policies adopted to curb inflationary pressures and uncertainties regarding possible future governmental intervention have contributed to economic uncertainty and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities market.. Since the introduction of the real in 1994, Brazil's inflation rate has been substantially lower than in previous periods. According to the Extended National Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo), Brazilian inflation rates were 6.3%, 10.7%, 6.4%, 5.9%, 5.8% and 6.5% in 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. However, the Brazilian government's measures to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting the availability of credit and reducing economic growth. The Central Bank of Brazil has frequently adjusted the interest rate in situations of economic uncertainty and to achieve objectives under the economic policy of the Brazilian government. Inflation, along with government measures to curb inflation and public speculation about possible future government measures, have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy and contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities market, which may have an adverse effect on us.. If Brazil experiences substantial inflation or deflation in the future, we and our ability to comply with our obligations may be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to adjust the prices we charge our customers to offset the impact of inflation on our expenses, leading to an increase in our expenses and a reduction in our net operating margin. This could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, such as the 2008-2009 developments in the global financial markets, and particularly in emerging market countries, may adversely affect the perceived value of companies with substantial operations in Brazil, causing the market price of our ordinary shares to decline.. The market value of securities of companies with substantial operations in Brazil is affected to varying degrees by political, economic and market conditions in other countries, including other Latin American and emerging market countries. Developments or economic conditions in other emerging market countries have at times significantly affected the availability of credit to the Brazilian economy and resulted in considerable outflows of funds from Brazil and decreases in the amount of foreign investments in Brazil. Although economic conditions in these countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors' reactions to developments in these other countries, such as the 2008-2009 developments in the global financial markets, may have an adverse effect on the market value of Brazilian companies or companies with significant operations in Brazil. Since a significant portion of our total assets is located in Brazil, a decrease of the perceived value of companies with substantial operations in Brazil could adversely impact the market price of our ordinary shares.. Risks Relating to our Debt. Our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and harm our ability to operate our business.. Certain of our subsidiaries have incurred indebtedness under a senior secured term loan and revolving credit facility, which we refer to, together with all related loan documents and as amended and restated in August 2017, as the Amended Credit Agreement. The obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are jointly and severally guaranteed on a senior basis by certain of our subsidiaries and secured by a pledge of the capital stock of, or equity interests in, most of our subsidiaries and by substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries.. Our Brazilian operating subsidiary, SMART Brazil, has incurred additional indebtedness under a credit facility with the Brazilian Development Bank, or BNDES, which we refer to, together with all related loan documents and as amended from time to time, as the BNDES 2013 Credit Agreement. Under the BNDES 2013 Credit Agreement, credit in the amount of R$50.6 million (or $16.2 million) was made available to SMART Brazil for investments in infrastructure, research and development in Brazil and acquisitions of equipment not otherwise. 42. available in the Brazilian domestic market. Our obligations under the BNDES 2013 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by Banco Itaú BBA S.A., or Itaú Bank, which guarantee is in turn secured by a guarantee from SMART Brazil and SMART do Brazil and a commitment by SMART Brazil to maintain minimum cash balances with Itaú Bank equal to 11.85% of the maximum aggregate balance of principal, interest and fees outstanding under the BNDES 2013 Credit Agreement, or R$6.0 million (or $1.9 million) of required cash balances.. In December 2014, SMART Brazil entered into a second credit facility with BNDES, which we refer to, together with all related loan documents and as amended from time to time, as the BNDES 2014 Credit Agreement. The BNDES 2013 Credit Agreement and the BNDES 2014 Credit Agreement are collectively referred to as the BNDES Agreements. Under the BNDES 2014 Credit Agreement, a total of R$52.8 million (or $16.9 million) was made available to SMART Brazil for research and development conducted in Brazil related to IC packaging and for acquisitions of equipment not otherwise available in the Brazilian domestic market. SMART Brazil's obligations under the BNDES 2014 Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by Itaú Bank, which guarantee is in turn secured by a guarantee from SMART Brazil and SMART do Brazil and a commitment by SMART Brazil to maintain minimum cash balances with Itaú Bank equal to 30.31% of the maximum aggregate balance of principal, interest and fees outstanding under the BNDES 2014 Credit Agreement, or approximately R$16.0 million (or $5.1 million) of required cash balances.. As of August 25, 2017, the outstanding principal balance under the Amended Credit Agreement, the BNDES 2013 Credit Agreement and the BNDES 2014 Credit Agreement, respectively, was $165.0 million, R$25.6 million (or $8.2 million) and R$39.6 million (or $12.6 million). We have a right to draw an additional $50.0 million under the revolving loan provisions of the Amended Credit Agreement.. Our indebtedness may have important consequences, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  increasing our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions;. •  requiring us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available to us for our working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry;. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness or more liquidity; and. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes.. All of our debt under the Amended Credit Agreement and approximately half of the debt under the BNDES 2013 Credit Agreement bears interest at variable rates. If the rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risks related to our indebtedness would be exacerbated.. Our Amended Credit Agreement contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our Amended Credit Agreement contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified transactions and prohibit us from voluntarily prepaying certain of our other indebtedness. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things:. •  incur additional indebtedness;. •  pay dividends on, or repurchase or make distributions in respect of, our capital stock or make other restricted payments;. •  make certain investments, including limitations on capital expenditures and acquisitions;. •  sell or transfer assets;. •  enter into or effect sale leaseback transactions;. 43. •  enter into swap agreements;. •  prepay, repurchase, redeem, otherwise defease or amend the terms of any subordinated indebtedness;. •  change fiscal periods;. •  create liens;. •  enter into contractual obligations that restrict our ability to grant liens on assets or capital stock;. •  change the character of our business;. •  consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and. •  enter into certain transactions with affiliates.. Under the Amended Credit Agreement, in certain circumstances we also are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios could be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet those ratios.. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the outstanding indebtedness under the Amended Credit Agreement, in which case such indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If any default occurs, we may not be able to pay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. Complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that we otherwise would not take or not take actions that we otherwise would take.. Our ability to generate cash to service our debt depends on many factors beyond our control.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of our business. This, to a certain extent, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us under the Amended Credit Agreement or the BNDES Agreements in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt or sell certain of our assets on or before the maturity of our debt. We may not be able to restructure or refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause us to default on our debt obligations and impair our liquidity. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants that could further restrict our business operations.. In addition, if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets or seek additional capital. These alternative measures may not be available to us, may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could result in substantial liquidity problems. Our Amended Credit Agreement restricts our ability to dispose of our assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Disruption in the financial markets may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit and cause other disruptions and additional costs at a time when we may need capital to refinance our debt or to fund growth.. Refinancing our existing debt or securing new debt or equity financing may be difficult, expensive, dilutive or impossible. As in the past, future instability in the financial markets may have an adverse effect on the U.S. and/or world economy which could adversely impact our business. If we are not able to obtain the capital required to refinance our existing debt or to fund future growth or if we are required to incur significant expenses and/or dilution to do so, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and may require us to undertake alternative plans, such as selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or downsizing our business.. 44. Risks Relating to Investments in Cayman Islands Companies. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, shareholders may have difficulty protecting their shareholder rights.. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (2016 Revision), or the Companies Law, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less exhaustive body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fulsome and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law.. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of U.S. courts for civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws against us in the Cayman Islands.. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands courts are unlikely:. •  to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or. •  to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature.. Although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize and enforce a foreign money judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits based on the principle that a judgment of a competent foreign court imposes upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given provided certain conditions are met. For a foreign judgment to be enforced in the Cayman Islands, such judgment must be final and conclusive and for a liquidated sum, and must not be in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty, inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matter, impeachable on the grounds of fraud or obtained in a manner, and/or be of a kind the enforcement of which is, contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands (awards of punitive or multiple damages may well be held to be contrary to public policy). A Cayman Islands Court may stay enforcement proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere.. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company.. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares. Control by our principal shareholders could adversely affect our other shareholders.. As of August 25, 2017, 66.9% our outstanding ordinary shares are owned by Silver Lake Partners III Cayman (AIV III), L.P., Silver Lake Sumeru Fund Cayman, L.P, and their affiliates, which are investment funds affiliated with Silver Lake Partners and Silver Lake Sumeru, collectively Silver Lake, and are each affiliates of certain of our directors. Pursuant to the terms of the Amended and Restated Sponsors Shareholder Agreement dated as of May 30, 2017, or the Sponsor Shareholder Agreement, entered into in connection with the IPO, Silver Lake has the right to nominate members of our board of directors as follows: so long as affiliates of Silver Lake own, in the aggregate, (i) at least 50% of our ordinary shares outstanding immediately after the IPO, Silver Lake will be entitled to nominate five directors, (ii) less than 50% but at least 35% of our ordinary shares outstanding immediately after the IPO, Silver Lake will be entitled to nominate four directors, (iii) less than 35% but at least 20% of our ordinary shares outstanding immediately after the IPO, Silver Lake will be entitled to nominate three directors, (iv) less than 20%. 45. but at least 10% of our ordinary shares outstanding immediately after the IPO, Silver Lake will be entitled to nominate two directors, (v) less than 10% but at least 5% of our ordinary shares outstanding immediately after the IPO, Silver Lake will be entitled to nominate one director, and (vi) less than 5% of our ordinary shares outstanding immediately after the IPO, Silver Lake will not be entitled to nominate any directors. The Sponsor Shareholder Agreement further provides that, for so long as Silver Lake collectively owns ordinary shares in an amount equal to or greater than 25% of our ordinary shares outstanding immediately following the IPO, in addition to the approval of our board of directors, the approval of Silver Lake will be required for certain corporate actions such as change in control transactions, acquisitions with a value in excess of $5 million and any material change in the nature of the business conducted by us or our subsidiaries. As a result, based on Silver Lake's ownership of our ordinary shares and the rights in the Sponsor Shareholder Agreement, Silver Lake has the ability to elect the members of our board of directors, and thereby control our management and affairs. Silver Lake will have a continuing ability to control our board of directors and will continue to have significant influence over our affairs for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control will limit the ability of other shareholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our other shareholders do not view as beneficial. For example, this concentration of control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. Furthermore, Silver Lake may have interests that are different from, or opposed to, the interests of the public shareholders.. The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations.. The market price of the securities of technology companies can be especially volatile. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares regardless of our actual operating performance. The market price of our ordinary shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the risk factors listed in this section and others beyond our control, including, among other things:. •  actual or anticipated variations in our operating results;. •  overall conditions in our industry;. •  events affecting Brazil or the market for our products there;. •  addition or loss of a major customer or of significant business at a major customer;. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products or our operations;. •  actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors;. •  announcements of technological innovations by us or other companies operating in our industry;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, restructuring initiatives or other events that affect us or companies in our industry;. •  additions or departures of key personnel;. •  competition from existing products or new products that may emerge;. •  the failure of financial analysts to cover our company;. •  changes in financial estimates by financial analysts, any failure by us to meet or exceed any of these estimates or changes in the recommendations of any financial analysts that elect to follow our company or our competitors;. •  changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry;. •  developments in existing litigation or disputes or the filing of new litigation or claims against us;. •  disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our technologies;. •  announcement of, or expectation of, additional financing efforts;. •  future sales of our ordinary shares;. 46. •  share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our ordinary shares;. •  the expiration of contractual lock-up agreements with us and our executive officers, directors and shareholders; and. •  general economic and market conditions.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of certain companies' securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. An active trading market for our ordinary shares may not be maintained.. Prior to our recently completed IPO, there was no public market for our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are listed on the NASDAQ. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain an active trading market for our ordinary shares on NASDAQ or any other exchange in the future. If there is no active market for our ordinary shares, the market price and liquidity of our ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. The lack of an active market may reduce the fair market value of our ordinary shares or impair your ability to sell the ordinary shares at the time you may wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. Investors in our ordinary shares may experience a significant decrease in the value of their shares regardless of our operating performance or prospects.. If financial analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our ordinary shares depends in part on the research and reports that financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares.. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as described in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, accounts receivable, inventory valuation, income taxes, impairment of long-lived assets and long-lived assets to be disposed, share-based compensation and fair value of ordinary shares. If our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, our results of operations may be adversely affected and may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares.. 47. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause our share price to fall.. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 ordinary shares, of which 21,666,081 ordinary shares were outstanding as of August 25, 2017. The lock-up agreement we entered into with the underwriters of our IPO,  whereby Silver Lake, our directors, officers and others who together own approximately 78.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares, have agreed not to offer, sell, or dispose of any ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any ordinary shares, will expire on November 19, 2017. The underwriters may, in their sole discretion, release all or some portion of the ordinary shares subject to lock-up agreements prior to expiration of the lock-up period.. Following the expiration of the lock-up period, certain of our existing shareholders and holders of options, RSUs and warrants, in the event they become exercisable, have the right to demand that we file a registration statement covering the offer and sale of their ordinary shares and shares issuable under such options, RSUs and warrants under the Securities Act and to require us to include their securities on a registration statement filed by us. If we file a registration statement for the purpose of selling additional ordinary shares to raise capital and are required to include ordinary shares held by these shareholders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, our ability to raise capital may be impaired. In addition, we intend to file a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register the shares available for issuance under our SGH Plan. Once we register these ordinary shares and after the expiration of the 180-day lock up period, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested, subject to any restrictions on such shares pursuant to the terms of award agreements or contractual arrangements the holders may have with us or Silver Lake.. We cannot predict the size of future sales or issuances of our ordinary shares or the effect, if any, that such future sales and issuances would have on the market price of our ordinary shares.. The requirements of being a public company will increase our costs and may disrupt the regular operations of our business.. As a public company, our legal, accounting, reporting and other administrative costs have and will continue to increase.. We also anticipate that we will incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and NASDAQ. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some management and corporate governance activities more time consuming and costly, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. This could have an adverse impact on our ability to recruit and bring on qualified directors.. The additional demands associated with being a public company may disrupt regular operations of our business by diverting the attention of some of our senior management team away from revenue producing activities to management and administrative oversight, adversely affecting our ability to attract and complete business opportunities and increasing the difficulty in both retaining professionals and managing and growing our businesses. Any of these effects could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. For as long as we are an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years.  Even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant. 48. requirements differently from us. In addition, in connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. Failure to comply with Section 404 could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanctions, impair our ability to raise revenue, cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and negatively affect the price of our ordinary shares.. As a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ corporate governance rules, we are permitted to, and we will, rely on exemptions from certain NASDAQ corporate governance standards, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors. Our reliance on such exemptions may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares.. The NASDAQ corporate governance rules require listed companies to have, among other things, a majority of independent board members and independent director oversight of executive compensation, nomination of directors and corporate governance matters. However, we intend to rely on the \"controlled company\" exemption under the NASDAQ corporate governance rules. A \"controlled company\" under the NASDAQ corporate governance rules is a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company. Silver Lake currently controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares, making us a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ corporate governance rules. As a controlled company, we have elected not to comply with certain of the NASDAQ corporate governance standards, including the requirement that a majority of directors on our board of directors are independent directors and the requirement that our compensation committee and our nominating and corporate governance committee consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our shareholders will not have the same protection afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance standards, and the ability of our independent directors to influence our business policies and affairs may be reduced.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our ordinary shares less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain accommodations that are not available to public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and providing two years of audited financial statements, rather than three years, and three years, rather than five years, of selected financial data in this Annual Report. We cannot predict if investors will find our ordinary shares less attractive because we take advantage of these accommodations. If some investors find our ordinary shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our ordinary shares and our share price may be more volatile.. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an \"emerging growth company\" can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. In other words, an \"emerging growth company\" can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. However, we choose to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. 49. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit shareholders' opportunity to sell their ordinary shares at a premium.. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. These provisions include, among other things:. •  a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms;. •  restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to call meetings or make shareholder proposals;. •  our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association may only be amended by a vote of shareholders representing at least 75% of the outstanding ordinary shares or by a unanimous written consent;. •  so long as Silver Lake collectively owns at least 40% of our outstanding ordinary shares, directors may be removed with or without cause, the size our board may be increased and vacancies on the board may be filled upon the affirmative vote of a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares; however, at any time when Silver Lake owns less than 40% of our outstanding ordinary shares, shareholders will not be permitted to increase the size of our board, fill vacancies on our board or remove directors without cause; and. •  the ability of our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue 30,000,000 preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares that could have the effect of impeding the success of an attempt to acquire us or otherwise effect a change in control.. These provisions could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions, even if such transaction would benefit our shareholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts.. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, for the foreseeable future, to repay indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not intend to pay any dividends to holders of our ordinary shares. In addition, our Amended Credit Agreement contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation in the price of our ordinary shares, if any, will be your only source of gain on an investment in our ordinary shares."
