[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Certain factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Any of the following risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects and cause the value of our common stock to decline, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. Competition in our industry is intense and our failure to compete successfully may adversely affect our sales, financial condition and operating results.. We operate in the highly competitive food retail and foodservice industries. We compete on a combination of factors, including price, product selection, product quality, convenience, customer service, store format and location, and digital commerce options.. Price is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry. We expect our competitors to continue to apply pricing pressures, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain profit margins and sales levels. We establish our consumer prices based on a number of factors, including surveys of prices of certain of our competitors. If our competitors change their cost structures such that we are unable to effectively compete on the basis of price, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Consumer choice is also driven by product selection and quality, and our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify market trends and offer products that appeal to our customers' preferences. Failure to identify such trends, offer such products or to accurately forecast changing customer preferences could lead to a decrease in the number of customer transactions at our stores and a decrease in the amount customers spend when they visit our stores.. We attempt to create a convenient and appealing shopping experience for our customers in terms of customer service, store format and location, and digital commerce options. If we are unable to provide a convenient and appealing shopping experience, our sales, profit margins and market share may decrease, resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Some of our competitors are aggressively expanding their number of stores in proximity to our stores, and their digital commerce offerings, within our primary market areas. As our competitors evolve or expand their physical and digital offerings, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected through a loss of sales, decrease in market share or greater operating costs.. 17. Table of Contents. Our principal competitors include conventional grocers such as Albertson's and Kroger, discounters and warehouse clubs such as Costco, mass merchandisers such as Walmart and Target, foodservice delivery companies such as Sysco, US Foods, and Performance Food Group, online retailers such as Amazon, as well as other specialty stores. Some of our competitors may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. Also, some of our competitors do not have unionized work forces, which may result in lower labor and benefit costs. These competitors could use these advantages to take certain measures, including reducing prices, that could adversely affect our competitive position, business, financial condition and operating results.. Further, over the last several decades, the retail supermarket and foodservice industries have undergone significant changes. Companies such as Walmart, Costco and Aldi have developed lower cost structures than conventional grocers to provide their customers with an \"everyday low price\" offering. In addition, wholesale outlets such as Restaurant Depot offer an additional low-cost option in the markets they serve. To the extent more of our competitors adopt an \"everyday low price\" strategy, we could be pressured to lower our prices, which would require us to achieve additional cost savings to offset these reductions. We may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in that environment.. Similarly, the retail supermarket industry is experiencing evolution in digital commerce and delivery options, with several of our competitors adding or expanding online shopping options for their customers. We may be required to make significant investments in digital commerce platforms, and execute on them, to maintain our competitive position and respond to consumer demand trends.. Our growth depends in part on new store openings and our failure to successfully open new stores or successfully manage the potential difficulties associated with store growth could adversely affect our business and stock price.. Our growth depends, in part, on our ability to open new stores and to operate those stores successfully. Successful execution of our growth strategy depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including our ability to effectively find suitable sites for new stores, negotiate and execute leases on acceptable terms, secure and manage the inventory necessary for the launch and operation of our new stores, hire, train and retain skilled store personnel, promote and market new stores and address competitive merchandising, distribution and other challenges encountered in connection with expansion into new geographic areas and markets. Delays or failures in opening new stores, or achieving lower than expected sales in new stores, could adversely affect our growth.. Although we believe that the U.S. market can support additional Extra! and Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice stores, we cannot assure you when or whether we will open any new stores. We may not have the level of cash flow or financing necessary to execute our additional store growth. If and when such store openings occur, we cannot assure you that these new stores will be successful or result in greater sales and profitability.. Additionally, our growth will place increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources. These increased demands could cause us to operate our existing business less effectively, which in turn could adversely affect the financial condition and operating results of our existing stores. Also, new store openings in markets where we have existing stores may result in reduced sales volumes at those existing stores. We may also be unable to successfully manage the potential difficulties associated with store growth, including capturing efficiencies of scale, improving our systems, continuing cost discipline and maintaining appropriate store labor levels and disciplined product and real estate selection, which may result in stagnation or decline in our operating margins. If we experience such a decline in financial condition and operating results as a result of such difficulties,. 18. Table of Contents. we may slow or discontinue store openings or we may close stores that we are unable to operate profitably.. Some of our new stores may be located in areas where we have little experience or where we lack brand recognition. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, market conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause these new stores to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. If we fail to successfully execute our growth strategy, including by opening new stores, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Our continued growth also depends, in part, on our ability to successfully expand certain of our legacy Smart & Final stores to our  Extra! format, and to relocate certain of our Smart & Final stores to new locations as  Extra! stores. If we fail to successfully identify the Smart & Final stores suitable for expansion or relocation, or fail to manage such projects in a cost-effective manner, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Our new stores may adversely affect our operating results in the short term and may not achieve sales and operating levels consistent with our more mature stores on a timely basis or at all.. We are actively pursuing new store growth and plan to continue doing so in the future. We cannot assure you that our new store openings will be successful or reach the sales and profitability levels of our existing stores. New store openings may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results in the short term due to the effect of opening costs and lower sales and contribution to overall profitability during the initial period following opening. New stores build their sales volume and their customer base over time and, as a result, generally have lower margins and higher operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, than our more mature stores. New stores may not achieve sustained sales and operating levels consistent with our more mature store base on a timely basis or at all, which may adversely affect our long- term financial condition and operating results.. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate new stores into our existing store base and those new stores may not be as profitable as our existing stores. Further, we have historically experienced, and expect to experience in the future, some sales volume transfer from our existing stores to our new stores as some of our existing customers switch to new, closer locations. If our new stores are less profitable than our existing stores, or if we experience sales volume transfer from our existing stores, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. We may be unable to maintain or increase comparable store sales, which could adversely affect our business and stock price.. We may not be able to maintain or increase the levels of comparable store sales that we have experienced in the past. Our comparable store sales growth could be lower than our historical average for many reasons, including:. <U+0095> general economic conditions;    <U+0095> the effect of new and acquired stores entering into the comparable store base;    <U+0095> the opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing markets;    <U+0095> increased competitive activity;    <U+0095> price changes in response to competitive factors;    <U+0095> supply shortages;    <U+0095> consumer preferences, buying trends and spending levels;. 19. Table of Contents. <U+0095> product price deflation;    <U+0095> cycling against any year of above-average sales results;    <U+0095> our ability to provide product offerings that generate new and repeat visits to our stores; and    <U+0095> the level of customer service that we provide in our stores.. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to be materially lower than in recent periods, which could harm our business and result in a decline in the price of our common stock.. Our plans to expand or remodel certain of our existing stores and build new stores in our current markets could require us to spend capital, which must be allocated among various projects. Failure to use our capital efficiently could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Since August 2008, we have converted 102 Smart & Final stores to our  Extra! format through a combination of store conversions, expansions and relocations. Our recent conversions and relocations have been completed for a net cash investment ranging from $2.7 million to $3.7 million per store. We intend to expand or relocate additional stores over the next several years. However, we cannot assure you that our future activity will require similar levels of investment, reach the sales and profitability levels of our Smart & Final or Extra! stores or be completed at all. If any of these initiatives prove to be unsuccessful, we may experience reduced profitability and could be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate planned new store openings, expansions or remodels.. Perishable products make up a significant portion of our sales, and ordering errors or product supply disruptions may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. We could suffer significant inventory losses in the event of the loss of a major supplier, disruption of our supply chain, extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. We have a significant focus on perishable products, sales of which accounted for approximately 37% of our net sales for each of our fiscal years 2017 and 2016, and rely on various suppliers to provide and deliver our perishable product inventory on a continuous basis. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters can lower crop yields and reduce crop size and quality, which in turn could reduce the available supply or increase the price of fresh produce.. While we have implemented certain systems to ensure our ordering is in line with demand, we cannot assure you that our ordering systems will always work efficiently, in particular in connection with the opening of new stores, which have limited or no ordering history. If we over-order, we may suffer inventory losses, which would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Our private label products expose us to various risks.. We expect to continue to grow our exclusive private label products within many product categories. We have invested in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts relating to these private label products. If we cannot anticipate, identify and react to changing consumer preferences relating to our private label products in a timely manner, or if our profit margins or sales levels from such products decline, then our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. Our private label products also subject us to certain specific risks in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this section, such as:. <U+0095> mandatory or voluntary product recalls;    <U+0095> infringements of our proprietary rights (including counterfeit or otherwise unauthorized goods);    <U+0095> claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties;. 20. Table of Contents. <U+0095> adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products;    <U+0095> claims related to false advertising; and    <U+0095> other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market private label products for retail.. An increase in sales of our private label products may also adversely affect sales of branded products, which may, in turn, adversely affect our relationship with our suppliers. Our failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Real or perceived quality or food safety concerns could adversely affect our business, operating results and reputation.. Brand value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in governmental investigations, litigation or adverse publicity, especially in social media outlets, all of which can adversely affect these perceptions and lead to adverse effects on our business, operating results and reputation. We believe our customers hold us to a high food safety standard. Real or perceived concerns regarding the safety of our food products or the safety and quality of our food supply chain, whether or not ultimately based on fact and whether or not involving products sold at our stores, could cause consumers to avoid shopping with us, and could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of consumers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.. Products we sell could cause unexpected side effects, illness, injury or death that could result in the discontinuance of such products or expose us to litigation, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation.. There is increasing governmental scrutiny and public awareness of food safety. Unexpected side effects, illness, injury or death caused by products we sell could result in the discontinuance of sales of these products or prevent us from achieving market acceptance of the affected products. Such side effects, illnesses, injuries and deaths could also expose us to product liability or negligence lawsuits. Any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Also, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. The real or perceived sale of contaminated or harmful products would cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. If we fail to maintain our reputation and the value of our brand, our sales may decline.. We believe our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and extend the value of our Smart & Final, Smart & Final Extra! and Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice brands. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brands and reputation will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality customer experience. Brand value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in governmental investigations, litigation or adverse publicity. Our brands could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity.. 21. Table of Contents. The current geographic concentration of our stores and net sales creates an exposure to local or regional downturns or catastrophic occurrences.. As of December 31, 2017, we operated 244 Smart & Final stores in California, representing 94% of our total Smart & Final stores and accounting for 95% of Smart & Final banner sales in fiscal year 2017. Also, as of December 31, 2017, we operated 47 Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice stores in the Pacific Northwest (Washington, Oregon and Idaho), representing 75% of our total Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice stores and accounting for 76% of  Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice banner sales in fiscal year 2017. In addition, we source a significant portion of our produce from California.. As a result, our business is currently more susceptible to regional conditions than the operations of more geographically diversified competitors and we are vulnerable to economic downturns in those regions. Any unforeseen events or circumstances that adversely affect the areas in which we have stores or from which we obtain products, particularly in California and the Pacific Northwest, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. These factors include, among other things, changes in demographics, population, employee bases and economic conditions, wage increases, severe weather conditions, power outages and other catastrophic occurrences. Such conditions may result in reduced customer traffic and spending in our stores, physical damage to our stores, loss of inventory, closure of one or more of our stores, inadequate work force in our markets, temporary disruption in the supply of products, delays in the delivery of goods to our stores and a reduction in the availability of products in our stores. Any of these factors may disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Disruption of supplier relationships could adversely affect our business.. We source our products from over 1,400 vendors and suppliers. The cancellation of our distribution arrangement with or the disruption, delay or inability of any of these vendors or suppliers to deliver products to our stores could cause operational disruptions or delays or increased or unexpected costs including, among others, costs associated with finding alternative vendors or suppliers and obtaining inventory that meets our and our customers' standards.. As an example, Unified Grocers is the primary supplier of dry grocery and perishable products to our Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice stores, accounting for approximately 81% of our product requirements (measured at cost) for our Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice stores for fiscal years 2017 and 2016. Since 1998, we have operated under a distribution arrangement with Unified Grocers. If our distribution arrangement with Unified Grocers was cancelled or Unified Grocers was unwilling or unable to supply our stores with dry grocery or perishable products, we could experience disruptions to our operations and incur unexpected expenses associated with finding one or more alternative suppliers or utilizing our own infrastructure to replace the products provided to and services performed for us by Unified Grocers.. Changes in commodity prices and availability may affect our financial condition and operating results.. Many products we sell include ingredients such as wheat, corn, oils, milk, sugar, cocoa and other commodities. Commodity prices worldwide are subject to significant price fluctuations. Any increase in commodity prices may cause our suppliers to seek price increases from us and price decreases may result in our competitors reducing retail prices on items containing such ingredients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to mitigate supplier efforts to increase our costs or competitive responses to decreasing prices, either in whole or in part. In the event we are unable to continue mitigating potential supplier price increases, we may consider raising our prices and our customers may be deterred by any such price increases. In addition, we may lower our retail prices in response to lower commodity costs or competitive conditions. Our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected either through increased costs to us or lower prices and loss of customers due to. 22. Table of Contents. competitive conditions, which may affect gross margins, or through reduced sales as a result of a decline in the number and average size of customer transactions.. While management believes that these commodities are not currently in short supply and all are readily available from our current independent suppliers, an interruption in the supply chains of or volatility in the markets for any of these commodities could have an adverse effect on their overall supply and impede our ability or that of our suppliers to obtain products containing these commodities. Such a decrease in their availability to us or our suppliers, whether as a result of increased prices or otherwise, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Any significant interruption in the operations of our distribution centers or common carriers could disrupt our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner.. We distribute our products through seven distribution centers in California. The operations of five of these distribution centers are outsourced to third parties. See \"Item 2 - Properties.\" We also maintain relationships with numerous common carriers. Any significant interruption in the operation of our distribution center infrastructure, such as disruptions due to fire, severe weather or other catastrophic events, power outages, labor disagreements or shipping problems, driver shortages, or any disruption or cancellation of our contractual relationships with the third party operators of our distribution centers, could adversely affect our ability to distribute products to our stores. Such interruptions could result in lost sales and a loss of customer loyalty to our brands. While we maintain business interruption and property insurance, if the operation of our distribution centers were interrupted for any reason causing delays in shipment of products to our stores, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover losses we experience, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We rely on common carriers, including rail and trucking, to transport products from our suppliers to our central distribution centers and from these centers to our stores. A disruption in the services of common carriers due to weather, employee strikes, increases in fuel costs or other unforeseen events, or any disruption or cancellation of our contractual relationships with our common carriers, could affect our ability to maintain sufficient quantities of inventory in our stores.. Our failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations affecting us and our industry could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations that affect our business, such as those affecting food manufacturing, food and drug distribution, retailing, labor and employment and environmental practices, including hazardous waste disposal, accounting standards and taxation requirements. We must also comply with numerous provisions regulating, among other things, health and sanitation standards, food labeling and safety, equal employment opportunity, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food, drugs and alcoholic beverages. Our ongoing efforts related to compliance with such laws, rules and regulations, including with respect to implementation of immigration legislation, recently enacted food safety and health care reform legislation, new mandates, fees and taxes and stricter regulatory oversight, create uncertainty about the probability and effect of future regulatory changes and can significantly affect our operations and compliance costs. We cannot predict future laws, rules and regulations or the effect they will have on our financial condition and operating results, but in any event, additional record keeping, increased costs of recruiting, training and retaining employees, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, and expanded or different labeling required by such laws, rules and regulations, could significantly increase our costs of doing business could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. As is common in our industry, we rely on our suppliers, including suppliers of our private label products, to ensure that the products they sell to us comply with all applicable regulatory and legislative. 23. Table of Contents. requirements. In general, we seek certifications of compliance, representations and warranties, indemnification and/or insurance from our suppliers. However, even with adequate insurance and indemnification, any claims of non-compliance could significantly damage our reputation and consumer confidence in our products. In order to comply with applicable statutes and regulations, our suppliers have from time to time recalled, reformulated, eliminated or relabeled certain of their products.. In addition, many of our customers rely on food stamps and other governmental assistance programs to supplement their grocery-shopping budgets. As a result, any change in the ability of our customers to obtain food stamps and other governmental assistance could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. General economic conditions that affect consumer spending could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. The food retail and foodservice industries are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. Recessionary economic cycles, increases in interest rates, higher prices for commodities, fuel and other energy, inflation, high levels of unemployment and consumer debt, depressed home values, high tax rates and other economic factors that affect consumer spending and confidence or buying habits may adversely affect the demand for products we sell in our stores. In recent years, the U.S. economy has experienced volatility due to uncertainties related to energy prices, credit availability, difficulties in the banking and financial services sectors, fluctuations in home values and retirement accounts, high unemployment and falling consumer confidence. As a result, consumers could shift their spending to lower-priced competition, such as warehouse membership clubs, dollar stores or extreme value formats. In addition, inflation or deflation could affect our business. Food deflation could reduce sales growth and profit margins, while food inflation, combined with reduced consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins. As a result of any of these factors, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. A widespread health epidemic could adversely affect our business.. Our business could be severely affected by a widespread regional, national or global health epidemic. A widespread health epidemic may cause customers to avoid public gathering places such as our stores or otherwise change their shopping behaviors. Additionally, a widespread health epidemic could adversely affect our business by disrupting production and delivery of products to our stores and by affecting our ability to appropriately staff our stores.. If we are unable to attract, train and retain, or maintain satisfactory relations with, our employees we may not be able to grow or successfully operate our business.. The food retail and foodservice industries are labor intensive. Our continued success is dependent in part upon our ability to attract, train and retain qualified employees who understand and appreciate our culture and can represent our brands effectively and establish credibility with our business partners and customers. We face intense competition for qualified employees, many of whom are subject to offers from competing employers. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling wage and labor-related costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force in the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, unionization of the available work force, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we fail to maintain competitive wages, the quality of our workforce could decline and cause our customer service to suffer. However, increasing our wages could cause our profit margins to decrease. If we are unable to hire and retain employees capable of meeting our business needs and expectations, our business and brand images may be impaired. Any failure to meet our staffing needs or any material increase in. 24. Table of Contents. turnover rates of our employees or employee wages may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 11,864 employees. 202 of our employees, all of whom work in certain Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice stores, are members of the Teamsters and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We may experience pressure from labor unions or become the target of campaigns similar to those faced by our competitors. The unionization of a more significant portion of our workforce, particularly at our Company-operated distribution centers and  Smart & Final stores, could increase the overall costs at the affected locations and adversely affect our flexibility to run our business competitively and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Labor relations issues arise from time to time, including issues in connection with union efforts to represent employees at our stores and distribution centers, and with the negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements. If we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with our employees or with the Teamsters, we may experience labor strikes, work stoppages or other labor disputes. Negotiation of collective bargaining agreements also could result in higher ongoing labor costs. Also, our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified employees in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease our ability to effectively serve our customers. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our operating results.. We have obligations under our defined benefit employee pension plans and may be required to make plan contributions in excess of our current estimates.. We sponsor one single-employer qualified defined benefit pension plan (the \"Single-Employer Plan\"), which, with limited exceptions, was frozen in 2008 with respect to new participants. In addition, we participate through our Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice operations in one multiemployer qualified defined benefit pension plan, the Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Plan (the \"Multiemployer Plan\"), on behalf of our union-affiliated employees, and we are required to make contributions to this plan under our collective bargaining agreement. Neither the Single-Employer Plan nor the Multiemployer Plan are fully funded based on standards provided by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the \"PBGC\"), in part due to increases in the costs of benefits provided or paid under the plans as well as lower returns on plan assets. Our funding requirements vary based upon plan asset performance, interest rates and actuarial assumptions. Poorer than assumed asset performance and continuing low interest rates may result in increased future funding contributions by us and, with respect to the Multiemployer Plan, other participating employers.. Going forward, our required contributions to the Multiemployer Plan could also increase as a result of many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining with the Teamsters, actions taken by the trustee that manages the plan, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plan and the payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit the plan. Our risk of future increased payments may be greater if other participating employers withdraw from the Multiemployer Plan and are not able to pay the total liability assessed as a result of such withdrawal or if the pension plan adopts surcharges and/or increased pension contributions as part of a rehabilitation plan.. Pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (\"ERISA\"), the PBGC has the right, subject to satisfaction of certain statutory requirements, to involuntarily terminate the pension plans described above (thus accelerating funding obligations) or enter into an alternative arrangement with us to prevent such termination. We expect to fund certain excess contributions to the Single-Employer Plan through plan year 2018 under the terms of an agreement with the PBGC that we entered into in connection with the Ares Acquisition. The amounts and timing of the remaining contributions we expect to make to the pension plans described above reflect a number of actuarial and. 25. Table of Contents. other estimates and assumptions with respect to our expected plan funding obligations. The actual amounts and timing of these contributions will depend upon a number of factors and the actual amounts and timing of our future plan funding contributions may differ materially from those presented in this Annual Report.. The minimum wage rate and cost of providing employee benefits continues to increase and is subject to factors outside of our control.. Certain of our employees are paid at rates related to the federal minimum wage. Many of our stores are located in states, including California, or in localities within states, where the minimum wage is greater than the federal minimum wage and receive compensation equal to that state's minimum wage. The California minimum wage increased to $11.00 per hour effective January 1, 2018. Moreover, municipalities may set minimum wages above the applicable state standards. Any further increases in the federal minimum wage or the enactment of additional state or local minimum wage increases could increase our labor costs.. We provide health benefits to substantially all of our full-time employees and to certain part-time employees depending on average hours worked. Though employees generally pay a portion of the cost of such benefits, our cost of providing these benefits has increased steadily over the last several years. We have experienced increases, and anticipate future increases, in the cost of health benefits, partly, but not entirely, as a result of the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act enacted in 2010 (the \"ACA\"), as well as other healthcare reform legislation which may be enacted by Congress and state legislatures, including modification to or the repeal of the ACA. Due to provisions requiring phasing-in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a significant, negative impact on our future business. If the ACA is repealed or modified or if new legislation is passed, such action could significantly increase costs of the healthcare benefits provided to our employees, the ultimate costs of which and the potentially adverse impact to the Company and its employees cannot be quantified at this time. If we are unable to control healthcare and pension costs, we may experience increased operating costs, which may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. The loss of any of our executive officers could adversely affect our business.. We are dependent upon each of our executive officers listed under \"Management - Executive Officers.\" Losing the services of any or a significant number of such individuals could adversely affect our business, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace them on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, any such departure could be viewed negatively by investors and analysts, which may cause our stock price to decline. We do not maintain key person insurance on any employee, though we are the beneficiary of life insurance policies on certain members of management for the primary purpose of funding our obligations under non-qualified benefit plans.. Energy costs are an increasingly significant component of our operating expenses and increasing energy costs, unless offset by more efficient usage or other operational responses, may affect our financial condition and operating results.. We use natural gas, water, sewer and electricity in our stores and gasoline and diesel in trucks that deliver products to our stores. We may also be required to pay certain adjustments or other amounts pursuant to our supply and delivery contracts in connection with increases in fuel prices. Increases in energy costs, whether driven by increased demand, decreased or disrupted supply or an anticipation of any such events will increase the costs of operating our stores. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising prices charged to our customers. Any such increased prices may also exacerbate the risk of customers choosing lower-cost alternatives. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in attempts to protect against these increases in energy costs through long-term energy contracts, improved energy procurement, improved efficiency and other operational improvements, the overall costs of operating our stores will increase, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. 26. Table of Contents. Disruptions to or security breaches involving our information technology systems could harm our ability to run our business.. In connection with payment card sales and other transactions, including bank cards, debit cards, credit cards and other merchant cards, we process and transmit confidential banking and payment card information. Additionally, as part of our normal business activities, we collect and store sensitive personal information related to our employees, and in some circumstances customers, vendors and other parties. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to criminal cyber-attacks or security incidents due to employee error, malfeasance or other vulnerabilities. Any such incident could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Third parties may have the technology and know-how to breach the security of this information, and our security measures and those of our banks, merchant card processing and other technology vendors may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to this information. The techniques used by criminals to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive data change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target; accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss or impairment, regulatory and law enforcement investigations, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation and relationships with our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Furthermore, our systems and operations, and those of our third party Internet and other systems service providers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters and other catastrophic events, power outages, server failures, telecommunications and Internet service failures, computer viruses and denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic breaches, sabotage, human errors and similar events. Any of these events could lead to system interruptions, processing, distribution, communication and order fulfillment delays and loss of critical data for us or our Internet and other systems service providers or suppliers, and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Because we are dependent on third-party service providers for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our systems and operations and because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, if at all, and any system disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We need to comply with credit and debit card security regulations.. As a merchant that processes credit and debit card payments from customers, we are required to comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards and other requirements imposed on us for the protection and security of our customers' credit and debit card information. If we are unable to remain compliant with these standards and requirements, our business and operations could be adversely affected because we could incur significant fines or penalties from payment card companies or be prevented in the future from accepting customer payments by means of a credit or debit card. We also may need to expend significant management and financial resources to become or remain compliant with these requirements, which could divert these resources from other initiatives and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Legal proceedings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our operations, which are characterized by a high volume of customer traffic and by transactions involving a wide variety of product selections, carry a higher exposure to consumer litigation risk when compared to the operations of companies operating in some other industries. Consequently, we may be a party to individual personal injury, product liability, intellectual property, employment-related and other legal actions in the ordinary course of our business, including litigation arising from food-related. 27. Table of Contents. illness. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. While we maintain insurance, insurance coverage may not be adequate or available and the cost to defend against future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that may decrease consumer confidence in our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. In addition, we believe there is a growing number of employment (including \"wage-and-hour\"), health, environmental and other lawsuits against companies in our industry, especially in California. State, federal and local laws and regulations regarding employment (including minimum wage requirements), health and the environment change frequently and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. Any changes in laws or regulations, or the imposition or enforcement of new laws or regulations, including legislation that impacts employment, health, the environment, labor or trade, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brands or goodwill and cause a decline in our net sales. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time- consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Claims under our insurance plans and policies may differ from our estimates, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for workers' compensation, general liability (including, in connection with legal proceedings described above under \"Risk Factors - Legal proceedings could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results\"), property insurance, director and officers' liability insurance, vehicle liability and employee health-care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by us are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Our results could be adversely affected by claims and other expenses related to such plans and policies if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends.. Changes in accounting standards may adversely affect reporting of our financial condition and operating results.. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting rules or regulations may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") is focusing on several broad-based convergence projects, including accounting standards for revenue, financial instruments and leases. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements to our accompanying audited consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In August 2010, the FASB issued an. 28. Table of Contents. exposure draft outlining proposed changes to current lease accounting under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (\"U.S. GAAP\") in FASB Accounting Standards Codification 840, \"Leases.\" In July 2011, the FASB made the decision to issue a revised exposure draft, which was issued in May 2013. On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued final guidance on lease accounting, which will be effective for us in 2019. The new guidance requires lessees to put most leases on their balance sheets but recognize expenses on their income statements in a manner that is largely similar to current accounting. The guidance also eliminates real estate-specific provisions for all entities. Currently, substantially all of our leased properties are accounted for as operating leases with limited related assets and liabilities recorded on our balance sheet. The new accounting standard, as currently issued, would treat each lease as creating an asset and a liability and require the capitalization of such leases on the balance sheet. While this change would not impact the cash flow related to our store leases, we would expect our assets and liabilities to increase relative to the current presentation, which may impact our ability to raise additional financing from banks or other sources in the future. The guidance as issued may also affect the future reporting of our results from operations as both income and expense on leases previously accounted for as operating leases may be front-end loaded as compared to the existing accounting requirements. However, even if the new guidance is adopted as issued, certain incurrence ratios and other provisions under the credit agreements governing our credit facilities permit us to account for leases in accordance with the existing accounting requirements. As a result, our ability to incur additional debt or otherwise comply with such covenants may not directly correlate to our financial condition or results from operations as each would be reported under U.S. GAAP as so amended.. Our high level of fixed lease obligations could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Our high level of fixed lease obligations will require us to use a significant portion of cash generated by our operations to satisfy these obligations and could adversely affect our ability to obtain future financing to support our growth or other operational investments. We will require substantial cash flows from operations to make our payments under our operating leases, which in some cases provide for periodic adjustments in our rent rates. If we are not able to make the required payments under the leases, the lenders to or owners of the relevant stores, distribution centers or administrative offices may, among other things, repossess those assets, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations. In addition, our failure to make payments under our operating leases could trigger defaults under other leases or under agreements governing our indebtedness, which could cause the counterparties under those agreements to accelerate the obligations due thereunder.. Our lease obligations may require us to continue paying rent for store locations that we no longer operate.. We are subject to risks associated with our current and future store, distribution center and administrative office real estate leases. We generally cannot cancel our leases, so if we decide to close or relocate a location, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including paying the base rent for the remaining lease term. In addition, as our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. The joint venture in Northwestern Mexico subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political, economic and other risks and conditions specific to that country, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We currently participate through one of our wholly owned subsidiaries in the operation of 15 Smart & Final stores in Northwestern Mexico through a joint venture. For fiscal years 2017 and 2016, our Mexican operations generated approximately $0.9 million and $1.5 million of our (loss) income before income taxes. Our future operating results in Mexico could be adversely affected by a. 29. Table of Contents. variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions and instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations and other matters in this region, now or in the future. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an effect on our future costs or on future cash flows from our Mexican operations and could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Moreover, the economy in Mexico has in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occur again, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Other factors that may affect, and additional risks inherent in, our Mexican operations include:. <U+0095> foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the U.S. and of Mexico, including such policies with respect to each other, which are subject to uncertainty in connection with the transition of a new presidential administration in the United States;    <U+0095> laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations;    <U+0095> risks associated with having facilities located in a country that has historically been less stable than the U.S.;     <U+0095> costs and difficulties of managing international operations; and    <U+0095> adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in Mexico.. The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.. In Mexico, our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and we are subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. Any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We also license certain of our trademarks to our Mexico joint venture for use in connection with operating the Smart & Final brand in Mexico. If the licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with these trademarks, our rights to and the value of this and similar trademarks could potentially be harmed. Also, negative publicity relating to the licensee could also be incorrectly associated with us, which could harm our business.. We have significant debt service obligations and may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and our ability to react to changes to our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $617.9 million (net of debt issuance costs) under our first lien term loan facility (the \"Term Loan Facility\") and outstanding borrowings of approximately $81.5 million (net of debt issuance costs) under our asset-based lending facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\" and, together with the Term Loan Facility, the \"Credit Facilities\"). See Note 4 Debt, in the accompanying notes to our audited consolidated financial statements. Our existing indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future could require us to divert funds identified for other purposes for debt service and impair our liquidity position. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need. 30. Table of Contents. to refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. We do not know whether we will be able to take any of such actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us or at all.. The fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations could be needed to make payments on our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following:. <U+0095> reducing our ability to execute our growth strategy, including new store development;    <U+0095> affecting our ability to continue to execute our operational strategies in existing stores;    <U+0095> increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or increased interest rates;     <U+0095> reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes;    <U+0095> limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the market in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt;    <U+0095> limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, new store growth, capital expenditures and other investments; and     <U+0095> failing to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable.. Our ability to obtain necessary funds through borrowing will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from operations. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under the Credit Facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. Our inability to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations in the future would require us to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity investment.. Moreover, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, the deductibility of interest expenses on our indebtedness could be limited under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts (as defined below) as discussed below under \"Limitations on the amount of interest expense that we may deduct could materially increase our tax liability and negatively affect an investment in our shares.\". Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our operational flexibility.. The agreements governing the Credit Facilities contain usual and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management and the operation of our business, including restrictions on the ability of certain of our domestic direct and indirect subsidiaries to:. <U+0095> incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;    <U+0095> incur or permit to exist certain liens;    <U+0095> enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions;    <U+0095> make certain investments, loans and advances;    <U+0095> effect certain mergers, consolidations, asset sales and acquisitions;    <U+0095> pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock, enter into transactions with affiliates, materially change their respective businesses; and. 31. Table of Contents. <U+0095> repay or modify certain other agreements with respect to other material indebtedness or modify their respective organizational documents.. In addition, the Credit Facilities place certain restrictions on SF CC Intermediate Holdings, Inc., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Smart & Final Stores, Inc. and a guarantor under the Credit Facilities (\"Intermediate Holdings\"), with respect to the incurrence or creation of additional liens on the equity interests of certain subsidiaries, the preservation of its corporate existence and the maintenance of its passive holding company status.. The Revolving Credit Facility includes a \"springing\" financial maintenance covenant, applicable when availability under the Revolving Credit Facility has fallen below a threshold level and for a specified period of time thereafter. At any time when the financial maintenance covenant is applicable, Smart & Final Stores LLC, the borrower under the Credit Facilities, is required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.0 to 1.0. Our ability to satisfy the financial maintenance covenant under the Revolving Credit Facility, if applicable, could be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with any of the covenants under either of the Credit Facilities could result in a default under the same and a cross-default from one Credit Facility to the other, which could cause our lenders to accelerate the timing of payments and exercise their lien on substantially all of our assets, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Our borrowings under the Credit Facilities bear interest at variable rates and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same and our net income would decrease. A hypothetical 0.50% increase in LIBOR rates applicable to borrowings as of December 31, 2017 under the Term Loan Facility would increase interest expense by approximately $2.4 million per year related to such debt, and a hypothetical 0.50% increase in LIBOR rates applicable to borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2017 would increase interest expense related to such debt by approximately $0.8 million per year, assuming the Revolving Credit Facility is fully borrowed.. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited.. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. To support our growth strategy, we must have sufficient capital to continue to make significant investments in our new and existing stores and advertising. We cannot assure you that cash generated by our operations will be sufficient to allow us to fund such expansion. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds through credit, the issuance of new equity or debt securities or a combination of both. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our capital requirements. If we obtain credit or issue new debt securities, the debt holders would have rights senior to holders of our common stock to make claims on our assets and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. If we issue additional equity securities, existing stockholders will experience dilution and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to obtain credit or issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of such transactions. Thus, stockholders bear the risk of our future indebtedness or securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and/or diluting stockholders' interest.. In addition, the credit and securities markets and the financial services industry in the past decade have experienced disruption characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various. 32. Table of Contents. financial institutions, increased volatility in securities prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability and intervention from the U.S. and other governments. The cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by these conditions. We cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs will be available from our existing financial institutions and the credit and securities markets if needed, and if available, to the extent required, and on acceptable terms.. The Term Loan Facility matures on November 15, 2022, and the Revolving Credit Facility matures on the earlier of (a) July 19, 2021 and (b) to the extent the Term Loan Facility (and any refinancing of the Term Loan Facility) has not been paid in full, the date that is 60 days prior to the earliest scheduled maturity date of the Term Loan Facility (or such refinancing of the Term Loan Facility). If we cannot renew or refinance the Credit Facilities upon their respective maturities or, more generally, obtain funding when needed, in each case on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue our current rate of growth and store expansion, which may have an adverse effect on our sales and operating results.. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. We have a significant amount of goodwill. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill of approximately $384.6 million, which represented approximately 21.3% of our total assets as of such date. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying amount. Fair value is determined based on the discounted cash flows and comparable market values of our two reporting units (our Smart & Final stores and our Cash & Carry Smart Foodservice stores). If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a non-cash impairment charge should be recognized for the amount by which that carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, which would adversely affect our operating results. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operating Results - Critical Accounting Estimates - Goodwill and Intangible Assets.\" In the fourth quarter 2017, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $180.0 million related to the Smart &Final stores reporting unit, see Note 3 Goodwill Impairment, in the accompanying notes to our audited consolidated financial statements.. Determining market values using a discounted cash flow method and market comparable method requires that we make significant estimates and assumptions, including long-term projections of market metrics such as earnings multiples, market conditions and appropriate market rates. Our judgments are based on historical experience, current market trends and other information. In estimating future cash flows for the discounted cash flow method, we rely on internally generated forecasts for operating profits and cash flows, including capital expenditures. Changes in estimates of future cash flows caused by items such as unforeseen events or changes in market conditions could adversely affect our reporting units' respective fair values and result in an impairment charge. Factors that could cause us to change our estimates of future cash flows include a prolonged economic crisis, successful efforts by our competitors to gain market share in our core markets, our inability to compete effectively with other retailers or our inability to maintain price competitiveness. An impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Changes in tax laws, trade policies and regulations or in our operations and newly enacted laws or regulations, such as Public Law No. 115-97 (the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\"), may impact our effective tax rate or may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 33. Table of Contents. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly changed the Internal Revenue Code, including a reduction in the corporate income tax rate, a new limitation on the deductibility of interest expense and certain executive compensation, and dramatic changes to the taxation of income earned from foreign sources and foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also authorizes the Treasury Department to issue regulations with respect to the new provisions. We cannot predict how the changes in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or regulations or other guidance issued under it, might affect us or our business.. Moreover, subsequent developments in tax policy or trade relations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. If there are any adverse changes in tax laws or trade policies that result in an increase in our costs, we may not be able to adjust the prices of our products, especially in the short-term, to recover such costs, and a rise in such costs could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 34. Table of Contents"
