[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the documents incorporated by reference, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks actually occurs, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only risks facing our company.. <U+0095>   The effects of a global economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business. Global economic growth remains uneven and could stall or reverse course. If this were to occur it could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending patterns which could result in decreased demand for the products we sell, a delay in purchases, increased price competition, or slower adoption of energy efficient water heaters and boilers, or high quality water treatment products which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. In addition, a deterioration in current economic conditions, including credit market conditions, could negatively impact our vendors and customers, which could result in an increase in bad debt expense, customer and vendor bankruptcies, interruption or delay in supply of materials, or increased material prices, which could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+0095>   We increasingly sell our products and operate outside the U.S., and to a lesser extent, rely on imports and exports, which may present additional risks to our business. Approximately 43 percent of our net sales in 2017 were attributable to products sold outside of the U.S., primarily in China and Canada, and to a lesser extent in Europe and India. We also have operations and business relationships outside the U.S. that comprise a portion of our manufacturing, supply, and distribution. Approximately 10,000 of our 16,100 employees as of December 31, 2017 were located in China. At December 31, 2017, approximately $815 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries, $587 million of which was located in China. International operations generally are subject to various risks, including: political, religious, and economic instability; local labor market conditions; the imposition of tariffs or other trade restrictions, or changes to trade agreements; the impact of foreign government regulations, actions or policies; the effects of income taxes; governmental expropriation; the imposition or increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; labor relations problems; the imposition of environmental or employment laws, or other restrictions or actions by foreign governments; and differences in business practices. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory, or trade climate, diplomatic relations, or government policies, particularly in relation to countries where we have a presence, including Canada, China, India and Mexico, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or our ability to repatriate funds to the U.S.. <U+0095>   A portion of our business could be affected by a slowdown in the transition of the Chinese economy to a consumer driven economy. Our sales growth in China has averaged approximately 17.5 percent per year in local currency over the past three years, and we anticipate sales growth of approximately 13 percent in local currency in 2018. We expanded our water heater capacity substantially over the last few years and we are in the process of expanding our manufacturing capacity for water treatment and air purification products in China to meet local demand. If there is a slowdown in the transition to a more consumer driven economy or the rate of urbanization was to stall, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+0095>   A material loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our business. Net sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 38 percent of our sales in 2017. We expect that our customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. Our concentration of sales to a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each of these customers important to our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our largest customers. Some of our customers may shift their purchases to our competitors in the future. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any material reduction or delay in sales to these customers, or our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 6. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   Our international operations are subject to risks related to foreign currencies. We have significant operations outside of the U.S., primarily in China and Canada and to a lesser extent Europe and India, and therefore, hold assets, including $587 million of cash in China, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates, or hyperinflation in some foreign countries. Furthermore, typically our products are priced in foreign countries in local currencies. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of our foreign markets has had and would continue to have a negative effect on our profitability. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiaries' functional currency. The majority of our foreign currency transaction risk results from sales of our products in Canada which we manufacture in the U.S. These risks may hurt our reported sales and profits in the future or negatively impact revenues and earnings translated from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars.. <U+0095>   A portion of our business could be adversely affected by a decline in North American new residential and commercial construction or a decline in replacement related volume. Residential and commercial construction activity in North America has shown modest growth and activity could decline again in the future. We believe that the majority of the markets we serve are for replacement of existing products and replacement related volume growth was strong in 2017. Changes in replacement volume and in the construction market could negatively affect us.. <U+0095>   Because we participate in markets that are highly competitive, our revenues and earnings could decline as we respond to competition. We sell all of our products in highly competitive markets. We compete in each of our targeted markets based on product design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, product performance, maintenance costs and price. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, research and development and distribution resources than we have, and some are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing or geographic footprints. Consumer purchasing behavior may shift to new distribution channels, including e-commerce, which is a rapidly developing area. Development of a successful e-commerce strategy involves significant time, investment and resources. We cannot assure that our products and services will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors or that we will be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+0095>   If we are unable to develop product innovations and improve our technology and expertise, we could lose customers or market share. Our success may depend on our ability to adapt to technological changes in the water heating, boiler, water treatment and air purifier industries. If we are unable to timely develop and introduce new products, or enhance existing products, in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements or demands, our competitiveness could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to develop and successfully market new products and to develop, acquire, and retain necessary intellectual property rights is essential to our continued success, but cannot reasonably be assured.. <U+0095>   Changes in regulations or standards could adversely affect our business. Our products are subject to a wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements related to, among other items, energy efficiency, environmental emissions, labeling and safety. While we believe our products are currently efficient, safe and environment-friendly, a significant change to regulatory requirements, whether federal, foreign, state or local, or to industry standards, could substantially increase manufacturing costs, impact the size and timing of demand for our products, or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. 7. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   Newly enacted U.S. government tax reform could have a negative impact on the results of future operations. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (U.S. Tax Reform) was enacted effective January 1, 2018 and contained substantial changes to the Internal Revenue Code, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. U.S. Tax Reform significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on undistributed foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries. With the enactment of U.S. Tax Reform, our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 included provisional charges for income tax expense of approximately $81.8 million resulting from the deemed repatriation tax on undistributed foreign earnings and the re-measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the recently enacted 21 percent U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. These provisional amounts are based on our initial analysis of U.S. Tax Reform. Given the significant complexity of U.S. Tax Reform, anticipated guidance from the Internal Revenue Service about implementing U.S. Tax Reform, and the potential for additional guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to U.S. Tax Reform, these provisional amounts may be adjusted in future periods during 2018, which could result in further impact to our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. <U+0095>   Our business may be adversely impacted by product defects. Product defects can occur through our own product development, design and manufacturing processes or through our reliance on third parties for component design and manufacturing activities. We may incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product liability and recall or retrofit costs. While we maintain a reserve for product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in current period expenses and a need to increase our reserves for warranty charges. In addition, product defects and recalls may diminish the reputation of our brand. Further, our inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line or the temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market. Any of these events may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+0095>   Our operations could be adversely impacted by material price volatility and supplier concentration. The market prices for certain raw materials we purchase, primarily steel, have been volatile. Significant increases in the cost of any of the key materials we purchase could increase our cost of doing business and ultimately could lead to lower operating earnings if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers. Historically, there has been a lag in our ability to recover increased material costs from customers, and that lag could negatively impact our profitability.    In addition, in some cases we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for some of the raw materials and components we require in the manufacture of our products. A significant disruption or termination of the supply from one of these suppliers could delay sales or increase costs which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+0095>   We are subject to U.S. and global laws and regulations covering our domestic and international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+0095>   Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits and claims. Our products expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities or that our insurance providers will be able to ultimately pay all insured losses. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 8. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   Retention of key personnel is important to our business. Attracting and retaining talented employees is important to the continued success and growth of our business. Failure to retain key personnel, particularly on the leadership team, could have a material effect on our business and our ability to execute our business strategies in a timely and effective manner.. <U+0095>   Sales growth of our boilers could stall resulting in lower than expected revenues and earnings. The compound annual growth rate of our boiler sales has been approximately ten percent per year since our acquisition of Lochinvar in 2011, largely due to the transition in the boiler industry in the U.S. from lower efficiency, non-condensing boilers to higher efficiency, higher priced, condensing boilers, as well as new product introductions. We expect the transition to condensing boilers to continue, but if the transition to higher efficiency, higher priced, condensing boilers stalls as a result of lower energy costs, a U.S. recession occurs, or our competitors' technologies surpass our technology, our growth rate could be lower than expected.. <U+0095>   An inability to adequately maintain our information systems and their security, as well as to protect data and other confidential information, could adversely affect our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business, we utilize information systems for day-to-day operations, to collect and store sensitive data and information, including our proprietary and regulated business information and personally identifiable information of our customers, suppliers, employees and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information about our employees. Our information systems, like those of other companies, are susceptible to outages due to system failures, failures on the part of third-party information system providers, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, or breaches of security. We continue to take steps to maintain and improve data security and address these risks and uncertainties by implementing and improving internal controls, security technologies, insurance programs, network and data center resiliency and recovery processes. However, any operations failure or breach of security from increasingly sophisticated cyber threats could lead to disruptions of our business activities, the loss or disclosure of both our and our customers' financial, product and other confidential information and could result in regulatory actions and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our reputation.. <U+0095>   Potential acquisitions could use a significant portion of our capital and we may not successfully integrate future acquisitions or operate them profitably or achieve strategic objectives. We will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, and we could use a significant portion of our available capital to fund future acquisitions. If we complete any future acquisitions, then we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses or operate them profitably or accomplish our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. If we complete any future acquisitions in new geographies, our unfamiliarity with local regulations and market customs may impact our ability to operate them profitably or achieve our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions with debt, which would cause us to incur additional interest expense and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. The impact of future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. <U+0095>   Our underfunded pension plans may require future pension contributions which could limit our flexibility in managing our company. The projected benefit obligations of our defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of the plan assets by approximately $48 million at December 31, 2017. U.S. employees hired after January 1, 2010 have not participated in our defined benefit plan, and benefit accruals for the majority of current salaried and hourly employees ended on December 31, 2014. We are forecasting that we will not be required to make a contribution to the plan in 2018, and we do not plan to make any voluntary contributions. However, we cannot provide any assurance that contributions will not be required in the future. Among the key assumptions inherent in our actuarially calculated pension plan obligation and pension plan expense are the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. If interest rates and actual rates of return on invested plan assets were to decrease significantly, our pension plan obligations could increase materially. The size of future required pension contributions could result in us dedicating a significant portion of our cash flows from operations to making the contributions which could negatively impact our flexibility in managing the company.. 9. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   We have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and an impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets could cause a decline in our net worth. Our total assets include significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase prices we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets we acquired. We assess whether there have been impairments in the value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or sooner if triggering events warrant. If future operating performance at our businesses does not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect non-cash charges to operating results for goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments. The recognition of an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. A significant reduction in our stockholders' equity due to an impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may affect our ability to maintain the debt-to-capital ratio required under our existing debt arrangements. We have identified the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies - Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets\" included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. <U+0095>   Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit have the ability to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval. We have two classes of common equity: our Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock. The holders of Common Stock currently are entitled, as a class, to elect only one-third of our board of directors. The holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled, as a class, to elect the remaining directors. Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit (Smith Family) have entered into a voting trust agreement with respect to shares of our Class A Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock they own. As of December 31, 2017, through the voting trust, these members of the Smith Family own approximately 62.3 percent of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, taken together as a single class, and approximately 96.3 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock, as a separate class. Due to the differences in the voting rights between shares of our Common Stock (one-tenth of one vote per share) and shares of our Class A Common Stock (one vote per share), the Smith Family voting trust is in a position to control to a large extent the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or approval of transactions involving a change of control. This ownership position may increase if other members of the Smith Family enter into the voting trust agreement, and the voting power relating to this ownership position may increase if shares of our Class A Common Stock held by stockholders who are not parties to the voting trust agreement are converted into shares of our Common Stock. The voting trust agreement provides that, in the event one of the parties to the voting trust agreement wants to withdraw from the trust or transfer any of its shares of our Class A Common Stock, such shares of our Class A Common Stock are automatically exchanged for shares of our Common Stock held by the trust to the extent available in the trust. In addition, the trust will have the right to purchase the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Common Stock proposed to be withdrawn or transferred from the trust. As a result, the Smith Family members that are parties to the voting trust agreement have the ability to maintain their collective voting rights in our company even if certain members of the Smith Family decide to transfer their shares.. 10. Table of Contents"
