[1] "Item 1A: Risk Factors. In evaluating the company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect the company's business, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the company's common stock.. Economic conditions and world events could affect our operating results.. We, our franchisees and our customers, may be adversely affected by changing economic conditions, including conditions that may particularly impact specific regions. These conditions may result in reduced consumer and investor confidence, instability in the credit and financial markets, volatile corporate profits, and reduced business and consumer spending. We, our franchisees and our customers, and the economy as a whole, also may be affected by future world or local events outside our control, such as acts of terrorism, developments in the war on terrorism, conflicts in international situations, weather events and natural disasters, as well as government-related developments or issues. These factors may affect our results of operations by reducing our sales, margins and/or net earnings as a result of a slowdown in customer orders or order cancellations, impact the availability of raw materials and/or the supply chain, and could potentially lead to future impairment of our intangible assets. In addition, political and social turmoil related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put pressure on economic conditions abroad. Unstable political, social and economic conditions may make it difficult for our franchisees, customers, suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom voted in a referendum to exit the European Union (\"Brexit\"), which resulted in significant currency exchange rate fluctuations and volatility. Negotiations are underway to determine the terms of Brexit. Given the lack of comparable precedent and the status of the negotiations, the implications of Brexit, or how such implications might affect Snap-on, continue to remain unclear at this time. Brexit could, among other impacts, disrupt trade and the movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the European Union or other countries as well as create legal and global economic uncertainty. These and other potential implications could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In 2017, Canada, Mexico and the United States commenced negotiations to potentially modify the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). It is difficult to predict what, if any, changes will be made to NAFTA as a result of these negotiations. If the U.S. were to withdraw from NAFTA or if significant changes are made that, among other impacts, disrupt trade and the movement of goods and services between these countries, it could have a material adverse impact on our business.. These and other matters significantly impacting the regulation of trade could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 12    SNAP-ON INCORPORATED. Table of Contents. Raw material and energy price fluctuations and shortages (including steel and various fuel sources) could adversely affect the ability to obtain needed manufacturing materials and could adversely affect our results of operations.. The principal raw material used in the manufacture of our products is steel, which we purchase in competitive, price-sensitive markets. To meet Snap-on's high quality standards, our steel needs range from specialized alloys, which are available only from a limited group of approved suppliers, to commodity types of alloys. These raw materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply, particularly in the event of mill shutdowns or production cut backs. As some steel alloys require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice. Additionally, unexpected price increases for raw materials could result in higher prices to our customers or an erosion of the margins on our products.. We believe our ability to sell our products is also dependent on the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven and the general aging of vehicles. These factors affect the frequency, type and amount of service and repair performed on vehicles by technicians, and therefore affect the demand for the number of technicians, the prosperity of technicians and, consequently, the demand technicians have for our tools, other products and services, and the value technicians place on those products and services. The use of other methods of transportation, including more frequent use of public transportation, could result in a decrease in the use of privately operated vehicles. A decrease in the use of privately operated vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand for our products.. We use various energy sources to transport, produce and distribute products, and some of our products have components that are petroleum based. Petroleum and energy prices have periodically increased significantly over short periods of time; future volatility and changes may be caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, world events and changes in governmental programs. Energy price increases raise both our operating costs and the costs of our materials, and we may not be able to increase our prices enough to offset these costs. Higher prices also may reduce the level of future customer orders and our profitability.. The performance of Snap-on's mobile tool distribution business depends on the success of its franchisees.. Approximately 41% of our consolidated net revenues in 2017 were generated by the Snap-on Tools Group, which consists of Snap-on's business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians through the company's worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. Snap-on's success is dependent on its relationships with franchisees, individually and collectively, as they are the primary sales and service link between the company and vehicle service and repair technicians, who are an important class of end users for Snap-on's products and services. If our franchisees are not successful, or if we do not maintain an effective relationship with our franchisees, the delivery of products, the collection of receivables and/or our relationship with end users could be adversely affected and thereby negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with franchisees, Snap-on or the franchisees may choose to terminate the relationship, which may result in (i) open routes, in which end-user customers are not provided reliable service; (ii) litigation resulting from termination; (iii) reduced collections or increased write-offs of franchisee receivables owed to Snap-on; and/or (iv) reduced collections or increased write-offs of finance and contract receivables.. Exposure to credit risks of customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect operating results and financial condition.. The size of our financial services portfolio has increased significantly in recent years. A decline in industry and/or economic conditions could have the potential to weaken the financial position of some of our customers. If circumstances surrounding our customers' ability to repay their credit obligations were to deteriorate and result in the write-down or write-off of such receivables, it would negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 2017 ANNUAL REPORT    13. Table of Contents. Our inability to provide acceptable financing alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees could adversely impact our operating results.. An integral component of our business and profitability is our ability to offer competitive financing alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees. The lack of our ability to offer such alternatives or obtain capital resources or other financing to support our receivables on terms that we believe are attractive, whether resulting from the state of the financial markets, our own operating performance, or other factors, would negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. Adverse fluctuations in interest rates and/or our ability to provide competitive financing programs could also have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability.. Changes to legislation and regulations may affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. Significant changes to legislative and regulatory activity and compliance burdens, including those associated with sales to our government, military and defense contractor customers, as well as the manner in which they are applied, could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole.. Financial services businesses of all kinds are subject to significant and complex regulations and enforcement. In addition to potentially increasing the costs of doing business due to compliance obligations, new laws and regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, as well as the enforcement thereof, may affect the relationships between creditors and debtors, inhibit the rights of creditors to collect amounts owed to them, expand liability for certain actions or inactions, or limit the types of financial products or services offered, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations could also result in civil, criminal, monetary and/or non-monetary penalties, damage to our reputation, and/or the incurrence of remediation costs.. Snap-on's results of operations could also be affected by changes in the company's effective tax rate as a result of changes in statutory tax rates, laws and regulations, as well as related guidance. The company is currently analyzing the impact of the December 2017 passage of \"H.R.1\", formerly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the United States (the \"Tax Act\"), which made significant changes to the U.S. Tax Code and affects, among other items, the company's tax rate, previously unremitted foreign earnings and valuations of deferred tax assets and liabilities. If new guidance is issued on the recently enacted tax revisions, depending on the circumstances, this (and other) tax legislation could adversely affect our results of operations.. These developments, and other potential future legislation and regulations, as well as the factors in the strict regulatory environment, including the growing international regulation of privacy rights, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen.. Failure to achieve expected investment returns on pension plan assets, as well as changes in interest rates or plan demographics, could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Snap-on sponsors various defined benefit pension plans (the \"pension plans\"). The assets of the pension plans are diversified in an attempt to mitigate the risk of a large loss. Required funding for the company's domestic defined benefit pension plans is determined in accordance with guidelines set forth in the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act (\"ERISA\"); foreign defined benefit pension plans are funded in accordance with local statutes or practice. Additional contributions to enhance the funded status of the pension plans can be made at the company's discretion. However, there can be no assurance that the value of the pension plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient to meet the future benefit obligations of such plans. In addition, during periods of adverse investment market conditions and declining interest rates, the company may be required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans that could reduce our financial flexibility. Changes in plan demographics, including an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the costs and funding requirements of the obligations related to the company's pension plans.. 14    SNAP-ON INCORPORATED. Table of Contents. Our pension plan obligations are affected by changes in market interest rates. Significant fluctuations in market interest rates have added, and may further add, volatility to our pension plan obligations. In periods of declining market interest rates, our pension plan obligations generally increase; in periods of increasing market interest rates, our pension plan obligations generally decrease. While our plan assets are broadly diversified, there are inherent market risks associated with investments; if adverse market conditions occur, our plan assets could incur significant or material losses. Since we may need to make additional contributions to address changes in obligations and/or a loss in plan assets, the combination of declining market interest rates, past or future plan asset investment losses, and/or changes in plan demographics could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The company's pension plan expense is comprised of the following factors: (i) service cost; (ii) interest on projected benefit obligations; (iii) expected return on plan assets; (iv) the amortization of prior service costs and credits; (v) effects of actuarial gains and losses; and (vi) settlement/curtailment costs, when applicable. The accounting for pensions involves the estimation of a number of factors that are highly uncertain. Certain factors, such as the interest on projected benefit obligations and the expected return on plan assets, are impacted by changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets. A significant decrease in market interest rates and a decrease in the fair value of plan assets would increase net pension expense and may adversely affect the company's future results of operations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the company's pension plans.. Adverse developments in the credit and financial markets could negatively impact the availability of credit that we and our customers need to operate our businesses.. We depend upon the availability of credit to operate our business, including the financing of receivables from end-user customers that are originated by our financial services businesses. Our end-user customers, franchisees and suppliers also require access to credit for their businesses. At times, world financial markets have been unstable and subject to uncertainty. Adverse developments in the credit and financial markets, or unfavorable changes in Snap-on's credit rating, could negatively impact the availability of future financing and the terms on which it might be available to Snap-on, its end-user customers, franchisees and suppliers. Inability to access credit or capital markets, or a deterioration in the terms on which financing might be available, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Increasing our financial leverage could affect our operations and profitability.. The maximum available credit under our multi-currency revolving credit facility is $700 million. The company's leverage ratio may affect both our availability of additional capital resources as well as our operations in several ways, including:. <U+0095>    The terms on which credit may be available to us could be less attractive, both in the economic terms of the credit and the covenants stipulated by the credit terms;. <U+0095>    The possible lack of availability of additional credit or access to the commercial paper market;. <U+0095>    The potential for higher levels of interest expense to service or maintain our outstanding debt;. <U+0095>    The possibility of additional borrowings in the future to repay our indebtedness when it comes due; and. <U+0095>    The possible diversion of capital resources from other uses.. While we believe we will have the ability to service our debt and obtain additional resources in the future if and when needed, that will depend upon our results of operations and financial position at the time, the then-current state of the credit and financial markets, and other factors that may be beyond our control. Therefore, we cannot give assurances that credit will be available on terms that we consider attractive, or at all, if and when necessary or beneficial to us.. 2017 ANNUAL REPORT    15. Table of Contents. Data security and information technology infrastructure and security are critical to supporting business objectives; failure of our systems to operate effectively could adversely affect our business and reputation.. We depend heavily on information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives and to protect sensitive information, and continually invest in improving such systems. Problems that impair or compromise this infrastructure, including natural disasters, power outages, major network failures, security breaches or malicious attacks, or during system upgrades and/or new system implementations, could impede our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, account for and collect receivables, protect sensitive data of the company, our customers, our suppliers and business partners, or otherwise carry on business in the normal course. Any such events, if significant, could cause us to lose customers and/or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to remediate, including as a result of legal or regulatory claims or proceedings, and could also damage our reputation. While we have taken steps to maintain adequate data security and address these risks and uncertainties by implementing security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency, and redundancy and recovery processes, as well as by securing insurance, these measures may be inadequate.. In association with initiatives to better integrate business units, rationalize operating footprint and improve responsiveness to franchisees and customers, Snap-on is continually replacing and enhancing its global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) management information systems. As we integrate, implement and deploy new information technology processes and enhance our common information infrastructure across our global operations, we could experience disruptions in our business that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure to maintain effective distribution of products and services could adversely impact revenue, gross margin and profitability.. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services. Successfully managing the interaction of our distribution efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks, costs and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability.. Risks associated with the disruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect profitability or competitive position.. We manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, facility consolidation or closure actions, lack of raw material or component availability, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disasters, weather events, use and storage of hazardous materials, acts of war, sabotage or terrorism, or other events), or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The inability to continue to introduce new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance could result in lower revenues and reduced profitability.. Sales from new products represent a significant portion of our net sales and are expected to continue to represent a significant component of our future net sales. We may not be able to compete effectively unless we continue to enhance existing products or introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner. Product improvements and new product introductions require significant financial and other resources, including significant planning, design, development, and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process levels. Our competitors' new products may beat our products to market, be more effective with more features, be less expensive than our products, and/or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs and research and development.. 16    SNAP-ON INCORPORATED. Table of Contents. The global tool, equipment, and diagnostics and repair information industries are competitive.. We face strong competition in all of our market segments. Price competition in our various industries is intense and pricing pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. In general, as a manufacturer and marketer of premium products and services, the expectations of Snap-on's customers and its franchisees are high and continue to increase. Any inability to maintain customer satisfaction could diminish Snap-on's premium image and reputation and could result in a lessening of our ability to command premium pricing. We expect that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase market share or profitability.. Product liability claims and litigation could affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The products that we design and/or manufacture, and/or the services we provide, can lead to product liability claims or other legal claims being filed against us. To the extent that plaintiffs are successful in showing that a defect in a product's design, manufacture or warnings led to personal injury or property damage, or that our provision of services resulted in similar injury or damage, we may be subject to claims for damages. Although we are insured for damages above a certain amount, we bear the costs and expenses associated with defending claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and are responsible for damages up to the insurance retention amount. In addition to claims concerning individual products, as a manufacturer, we can be subject to costs, potential negative publicity and lawsuits related to product recalls, which could adversely impact our results of operations and damage our reputation.. Legal disputes could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time we are subject to legal disputes that are being litigated and/or settled in the ordinary course of business. Disputes or future lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations. Additionally, negative developments with respect to legal disputes and the costs incurred in defending ourselves, even if successful, could have an adverse impact on the company and its reputation. Successful outcomes, at trial or on appeal, can never be assured. Adverse outcomes or settlements could also require us to pay damages, potentially in excess of amounts reserved, or incur liability for other remedies that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure to adequately protect intellectual property, or claims of infringement, could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Intellectual property rights are an important and integral component of our business and failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. In addition, we have been and in the future may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement against us by third parties; whether or not these claims have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of those claims. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products, prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and/or result in payments for damages. In the event of an infringement claim, we may also be required to spend significant resources to develop alternatives or obtain licenses which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, and may reduce our sales and disrupt our production. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 2017 ANNUAL REPORT    17. Table of Contents. Foreign operations are subject to political, economic, currency exchange and other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Approximately 32% of our revenues in 2017 were generated outside of the United States. Future growth rates and success of our business depends in large part on continued growth in our non-U.S. operations, including growth in emerging markets and critical industries. Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our non-U.S. operations. These risks and uncertainties include political, economic and social instability, such as acts of war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism, local labor conditions, changes in government policies and regulations, including imposition or increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by international subsidiaries, as well as the exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption laws in various countries, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, currency volatility, transportation delays or interruptions, sovereign debt uncertainties and difficulties in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights, as well as natural disasters. Should the economic environment in our non-U.S. markets deteriorate from current levels, our results of operations and financial position could be materially impacted, including as a result of the effects of potential impairment write-downs of goodwill and/or other intangible assets related to these businesses.. The reporting currency for Snap-on's consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of the company's assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In preparing Snap-on's Consolidated Financial Statements, those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at applicable exchange rates. Increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies affect the U.S. dollar value of those items, as reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Substantial fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar could have a significant impact on the company's financial condition and results of operations.. We are also affected by changes in inflation rates and interest rates. Additionally, cash generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions may be difficult to repatriate to the United States in a tax-efficient manner. Our foreign operations are also subject to other risks and challenges, such as the need to staff and manage diverse workforces, respond to the needs of multiple national and international marketplaces, and differing business climates and cultures in various countries.. We may not successfully integrate businesses we acquire, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The pursuit of growth through acquisitions, including participation in joint ventures, involves significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These risks include:. <U+0095>    Loss of the acquired businesses' customers;. <U+0095>    Inability to integrate successfully the acquired businesses' operations;. <U+0095>    Inability to coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the acquired businesses;. <U+0095>    Unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the acquired businesses;. <U+0095>    Large write-offs or write-downs, or the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets;. <U+0095>    Difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;. <U+0095>    Failure to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other anticipated benefits, or to maintain operating margins;. <U+0095>    Strain on our personnel, systems and resources, and diversion of attention from other priorities;. <U+0095>    Incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense; and. <U+0095>    The dilutive effect in the event of the issuance of additional equity securities.. The recognition of impairment charges on goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely impact our future financial condition and results of operations.. We have a substantial amount of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, almost all of which are booked in the Commercial & Industrial Group and in the Repair Systems & Information Group. We are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill and other intangibles annually or at any time when events occur that could impact the value of our business segments. Our determination of whether impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units' fair market value with its carrying value.. 18    SNAP-ON INCORPORATED. Table of Contents. Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as significant and long-term adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, unanticipated competition, the loss of key customers, and/or changes in technology or markets, could require a provision for impairment in a future period that could substantially impact our reported earnings and reduce our consolidated net worth and shareholders' equity. Should the economic environment in these markets deteriorate, our results of operations and financial position could be materially impacted, including as a result of the effects of potential impairment write-downs of goodwill and/or other intangible assets related to these businesses.. Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Certain of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the United States and abroad in connection with our operations. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices. We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates.. The inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions, as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue and/or profitability.. Snap-on's success depends, in part, on the efforts and abilities of its senior management team and other key employees. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. In addition, transitions of important responsibilities to new individuals inherently include the possibility of disruptions to our business and operations, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The steps taken to restructure operations, rationalize operating footprint, lower operating expenses and achieve greater efficiencies in the supply chain could disrupt business.. We have taken steps in the past, and expect to take additional steps in the future, intended to improve customer service and drive further efficiencies and reduce costs, some of which could be disruptive to our business. These actions, collectively across our operating groups, are focused on the following:. <U+0095>    Continuing to invest in initiatives focused on building a strong sales and operating presence in emerging growth markets;. <U+0095>    Continuing to enhance service and value to our franchisees and customers;. <U+0095>    Continuing to implement efficiency and productivity initiatives throughout the company to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs;. <U+0095>    Continuing on the company's existing path to improve and transform global manufacturing and the supply chain into a market-demand-based replenishment system with lower costs;. <U+0095>    Continuing to invest in developing and marketing new, innovative, higher-value-added products and advanced technologies;. <U+0095>    Extending our products and services into additional and/or adjacent markets or to new customers; and. <U+0095>    Continuing to provide financing for, and grow our portfolio of, receivables within our financial services businesses.. 2017 ANNUAL REPORT    19. Table of Contents. A failure to succeed in the implementation of any or all of these actions could result in an inability to achieve our financial goals and could be disruptive to the business.. In addition, any future reductions to headcount and other cost reduction measures may result in the loss of technical expertise and could adversely affect our research and development efforts as well as our ability to meet product development schedules. Efforts to reduce components of expense could result in the recording of charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs or other charges relating to the consolidation or closure of facilities. If we were to incur a substantial charge to further these efforts, our earnings per share would be adversely affected in such period. If we are unable to effectively manage our cost reduction and restructuring efforts, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively affected."
