[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES WE FACE. ADDITIONAL RISKS THAT WE ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OF OR THAT WE CURRENTLY BELIEVE ARE IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OR ALL OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS, AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. IN ASSESSING THESE RISKS, YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED NOTES.. We may need to raise additional capital.. At September 30, 2017, we had cash of $1.2 million, $1.1 million of which was in our foreign operations. There was a remaining amount of $2.22 million available under our line of credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank at September 30, 2017, with $1.65 million outstanding and a credit limit of $3.87 million in total. The Company has historically financed its operations primarily through cash from sales of equity securities, and to a limited extent, cash from operations and through bank credit facilities. The Company has a history of operating losses, although in fiscal 2017 it generated cash from operations of $0.7 million. While the Company expects to increase revenue in fiscal 2018 and reduce operating expense, we cannot ensure that revenue will grow as anticipated and, if revenue is determined to be growing at a rate less than anticipated and expenses are not sufficiently reduced, our line of credit may not be sufficient to support working capital needs, and our ability to develop, maintain, and sell our products could be negatively impacted. In addition, although the Company anticipates that we will be in compliance with all provisions of its debt facilities, our financial condition may, in the future, cause us to be in non-compliance with such provisions. If our line of credit is not sufficient to support working capital needs or if our financial condition causes us to be in non-compliance with certain provisions of our debt facilities, we may have to borrow additional money from other debt providers or raise additional equity capital.. In the event we need to borrow additional money or raise additional equity capital, we may not be able to do so on acceptable terms and conditions. If we are in non-compliance with the covenants of our existing debt facility, other lenders may be unwilling to lend us capital and we may not be able to raise equity from independent investors. In that event, we may seek to raise money from entities that are affiliated with the Company, as we have done in the past. However, most equity investors will require that their investment be in the form of preferred stock. An investment in preferred stock by insiders may cause us to be in non-compliance with certain of Nasdaq's listing rules, in particular Nasdaq Rule 5640 (the \"Voting Rights Rule\") and Nasdaq Rule 5635(c) (the \"Equity Compensation Rule\"), the latter of which requires stockholder approval of any issuance of preferred stock to a company. 12. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. insider which is convertible into common stock at below the market price of the common stock. Due to these rules, equity investments by persons or entities affiliated with the Company may not be available.. In the event we are able to borrow money, we may incur significant interest charges, which could harm our profitability. Holders of debt would also have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. In the event we are able to raise additional equity, the terms of such financing may dilute the ownership interests of current investors and cause our stock price to fall significantly. We may not be able to secure debt or equity financing upon acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be negatively impacted. The Company believes its cash position and available credit is adequate to accomplish its business plan through at least the next twelve months.. If the funds held by our foreign subsidiaries are needed for our operations in the United States, the repatriation of some of these funds to the United States could require payment of additional U.S. taxes.. We have a history of losses.. Our investments in growing revenues have generated losses in most years. Despite our plans to grow revenue and reduce expenses in fiscal 2018, we may not realize sufficient revenues to reach or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. For the year ended September 30, 2017, we had a gross margin of $26.1 million on revenue of $36.0 million with which to cover selling, marketing, product development and general and administrative costs. Our selling, marketing, product development and general and administrative costs have historically been a significant percentage of our revenue, due partly to the expense of developing leads, the relatively long period required to convert leads into sales associated with selling products that are not yet considered \"mainstream\" technology investments and the cost of developing and maintaining those products. Fluctuations in profitability or failure to maintain profitability have and will likely impact the price of our stock in the future.. Multiple unit deals are needed for continued success.. We need to sell multiple units to educational, corporate and government institutions in order to sell most efficiently and remain profitable. In fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, 92% and 90% of billings was generated by sales to existing customers, respectively. In particular, sales of multiple units to corporate customers have lagged behind results achieved in the higher education market; consequently, we have allocated more resources to the higher education market. While we have addressed a strategy to leverage existing customers, better address the needs of potential new customers, and close multiple unit transactions, a customer may choose not to make expected purchases of our products. The failure of our customers to make expected purchases will harm our business.. If a sufficient number of customers do not accept our products, our business may not succeed.. The use of video as a mainstream communication tool and the market for content management software is in an early stage. We cannot predict how the market for our products will develop, and part of our strategic challenge will be to convince enterprise customers of the productivity, improved communications, cost savings, suitability and other benefits of our products. In higher education the decision to include lecture capture technology in the classroom is often influenced by the professor teaching the class, who sometimes views lecture capture technology as a threat to their job. The market for content delivery solutions is very complex, includes many products and solutions that address various aspects of customer needs and as a result it is often difficult for customers and channel partners to understand how our products and services compare. Further, corporate customers may use video as a tool, but may choose to rely upon their own IT infrastructure and resources to manage their video content. Because many companies generally are predisposed to maintaining control of their IT systems and infrastructure, there may be resistance to using software as a service provided by a third party. Our future revenue and revenue growth rates will depend in large part on our success in delivering these products effectively, creating market acceptance for these products and meeting customer's needs for new or enhanced products. If we fail to do so, our products will not achieve widespread market acceptance, and we may not generate sufficient revenue to offset our product development and selling and marketing costs, which will hurt our business.. Manufacturing disruption or capacity constraints would harm our business.. We subcontract the manufacture of our recorders to one third-party contract manufacturer. Although we believe there are multiple sources of supply from other contract manufacturers as well as multiple suppliers of component parts required by our contract manufacturer, a disruption of supply of component parts or completed products, even if short term, would have a material negative impact on our revenues. Likewise we are susceptible to any material change in terms such as pricing, level of services performed. 13. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. or changes to payment terms by our contract manufacturer. Many component parts currently have long delivery lead times or cease production of certain components with limited notice in which to evaluate or obtain alternate supply, requiring conservative estimation of production requirements. Lengthening lead times, product design changes and other third party manufacturing disruptions have caused delays in delivery in the past. In order to compensate for supply delays, we have sourced components from off-shore locations, used cross component parts, paid significantly higher prices or premium fees to expedite delivery for short supply components. We have typically maintained greater amounts of inventory as insurance against delays but currently hold substantially lower quantities of inventory in order to improve liquidity. Many of these strategies have increased our costs or require substantial resources to maintain and may not be sufficient to ensure against a product shortage. We depend on our subcontract manufacturer to produce our products efficiently while maintaining high levels of quality despite frequent changes in configuration and scheduling imposed by us. Any manufacturing or component defects, delay in production or changes in product features will likely cause customer dissatisfaction and may harm our reputation. Moreover, any incapacitation of the manufacturing site due to destruction, natural disaster or similar events could result in a loss of product inventory. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may not be able to meet demand for our products, which could negatively affect revenues in the quarter of the disruption or longer depending upon the magnitude of the event, and could harm our reputation.. We may not be able to innovate to meet the needs of our target market.. Our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products, product enhancements or service offerings that address future needs of our target markets and to respond to these changing standards and practices on a timely basis. The success of new products, product enhancements or service offerings depend on several factors, including the timely completion, quality and market acceptance of the product, enhancement or service. Our fiscal 2018 business plan includes an expectation for revenue contribution from both new and existing customers associated with the introduction of lower priced hardware and software recorders in locations that can't support our more comprehensive solutions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving our revenue expectations from these new products or that we are able to retain existing customers in our more comprehensive solutions. Our revenue could be reduced if we do not capitalize on our current market leadership by timely development of innovative new products, product enhancements or service offerings that will increase the likelihood that our products and services will be accepted in preference to the products and services of our current and future competitors.. If our marketing and lead generation efforts are not successful, our business will be harmed.. We believe that continued marketing efforts will be critical to achieve widespread acceptance of our products. Our marketing campaigns may not be successful given the expense required. For example, failure to adequately generate and develop sales leads could cause our future revenue to decrease. In addition, our inability to generate and cultivate sales leads into large organizations, where there is the potential for significant use of our products, could have a material effect on our business. We may not be able to identify and secure the number of strategic sales leads necessary to help generate marketplace acceptance of our products. If our marketing or lead-generation efforts are not successful, our business and operating results will be harmed.. There is a great deal of competition in the market for our products, which could lower the demand for our products and have a negative impact on our operations.. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive, dynamic and subject to rapid technological change. The intensity of the competition and the pace of change are expected to increase in the future. Increased competition has and will likely continue to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and may result in loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered, many of which have greater financial resources, greater name recognition, more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we have. In addition, new competitors with greater financial resources may arise through partnerships, distribution agreements, mergers, acquisitions or other types of transactions at any time. In particular, large companies have begun to make investments in and/or partner with smaller companies to enter the lecture capture and video management markets.. Various vendors provide lecture capture, enterprise webcasting or video content management capabilities, but few offer an end-to-end solution that addresses all phases of the video content lifecycle (capture, delivery, transformation and management) in a single platform like Mediasite.. Lecture capture solutions designed specifically for higher education differ in their technology approach.. 14. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. • Appliance- or room-based lecture capture provides a fully integrated system with complete recording automation for live or on-demand content. The automated, pre-scheduled workflow results in the greatest faculty and staff adoption and largest volumes of recorded content in the shortest amount of time.. • Software-based lecture capture that resides on a podium or computer in the classroom also captures and publishes rich media content, but relies on campus- or user-supplied hardware.. • Desktop capture tools reside on individual users' laptops or computers allowing them to record user-generated content.. Few lecture capture vendors, offer a mix of all lecture capture approaches to best suit customers' needs. Most vendors, including Crestron, Panopto and Tegrity, support only one approach to lecture capture. Likewise, a very small number of vendors provide an integrated platform like Mediasite to archive and manage video and rich media recorded with their solution. Most rely on a third-party platform, typically the institution's learning or course management system, to publish, search and secure content.. Enterprise video management solutions (e.g. Kaltura, Qumu) serve as centralized media repositories that facilitate the delivery, publishing and management of on-demand video. Unlike Mediasite, most platforms do not include a video capture, webcasting or live streaming component, but instead ingest or import video-based content captured by other third-party devices or solutions. Also, most other platforms focus on ingesting video-only content rather than rich video which combines multiple synchronous video and/or slide streams into an interactive media experience.. Some current and potential customers develop their own home-grown lecture capture, webcasting or video content solutions which may also compete with Mediasite. However, we often find many of these organizations are now looking for a commercial solution that offers comprehensive management capabilities, requires fewer resources and internal maintenance and delivers a less cumbersome workflow.. The competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services, or marketing to maintain and extend our current technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing, licensing, and distribution strategies or technology solutions of competitors may reduce our revenue, margins or market share. Other changes we have to make in response to competition could cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, disrupt our operations, strain relationships with partners, release products and enhancements before they are thoroughly tested or result in customer dissatisfaction, any of which could harm our operating results and stock price.. Because most of our service contracts are renewable on an annual basis, a reduction in our service renewal rate could significantly reduce our revenues.. Our clients have no obligation to renew their content hosting agreements, customer support contracts or other annual service contracts after the expiration of the initial period, which is typically one year, and some clients have elected not to do so. A decline in renewal rates could cause our revenues to decline. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of renewals, so we cannot accurately predict future renewal rates. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including client dissatisfaction with our products and services, our slow response to customer technical inquiries, our failure to update our products to maintain their attractiveness in the market, deteriorating economic conditions or budgetary constraints or changes in budget priorities faced by our clients.. Because we generally recognize revenues ratably over the term of our service contracts, downturns or upturns in service transactions will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods.. We recognize most of our revenues from service contracts monthly over the terms of their agreements, which are typically 12 months, although terms have ranged from less than one month to 48 months. As a result, much of the service revenue we report in each quarter is attributable to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales, client renewals or market acceptance of our products in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter and will negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. This ratable revenue recognition also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new clients must be recognized over the applicable agreement term.. Our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations.. International product and service billings ranged from 38% to 43% of our total billings in each of the past two years and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our business in the future, particularly as a result of growth in the. 15. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. operations of businesses acquired in fiscal 2014 in the Netherlands and Japan. International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including:. • Difficulties in establishing and managing international subsidiaries, distribution channels and operations;. • Difficulties in selling, servicing and supporting overseas products, translating products into foreign languages and compliance with local hardware requirements;. • Difficulties in managing the demands of large international deployments, many of which distract key sales personnel from opportunities in other parts of the world;. • Challenges associated with management transition;. • Challenges related to language or cultural differences;. • The uncertainty of laws and enforcement in certain countries, such as China, relating to the protection of intellectual property or requirements for product certification, protection of personal data or other restrictions;. • Competitive pressure impacting other parts of the world;. • Multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures;. • Currency and exchange rate fluctuations;. • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries, including complexities in documenting letters of credit;. • Economic or political changes in international markets;. • Restrictions on access to the Internet; and. • Difficulty in complying with international employment related requirements. The length of our sales and deployment cycles are uncertain, which may cause our revenue and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year.. During our sales cycle, we spend considerable time and expense providing information to prospective customers about the use and benefits of our products without generating corresponding revenue. Our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term and based in part on our expectations of future revenue. Therefore, any delay in our sales cycle could cause significant variations in our operating results, particularly because a relatively small number of customer orders represent a large portion of our revenue.. Our largest potential sources of revenue are educational institutions, large corporations and government entities that often require long testing and approval processes before making a decision to purchase our products, particularly when evaluating our products for inclusion in new buildings under construction, high dollar transactions or competitive bids. In general, the process of selling our products to a potential customer may involve lengthy negotiations, collaborations with consultants, designers and architects, time consuming installation processes and changes in network infrastructure in excess of what we or our VARs are able to provide. In addition, educational institutions that started with small pilots are committing to more complex installations and expanding to include undergraduate classrooms, which, due to the increased size of these types of transactions, typically require a longer sales cycle. Also, our enterprise accounts are less motivated by seasonal sales and promotions, and therefore are frequently difficult to finalize. As a result of these factors, our sales and deployment cycles are unpredictable. Our sales and deployment cycles are also subject to delays as a result of customer-specific factors over which we have little or no control, including budgetary constraints, existing infrastructure technical issues and internal approval procedures, particularly with customers or potential customers that rely on government funding.. Our products are aimed toward a broadened user base within our key markets and these products are relatively early in their product life cycles. We cannot predict how the market for our products will develop, and part of our strategic challenge will be to convince targeted users of the productivity, improved communications and test scores, cost savings and other benefits. Accordingly, it is likely that delays in our sales cycles with these products will occur and this could cause significant variations in our operating results.. Sales of some of our products have experienced seasonal fluctuations which have affected sequential growth rates for these products, particularly in our first fiscal quarter. For example, there is generally a slowdown for sales of our products in the higher education and corporate markets in the first fiscal quarter of each year. Seasonal fluctuations could negatively affect our business, which could cause our operating results to fall short of anticipated results for such quarters. As such, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results and cash flows may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.. 16. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. Our operating results are hard to predict as a significant amount of our sales typically occur at the end of a quarter and the mix of product and service orders may vary significantly.. Revenue for any particular quarter is extremely difficult to predict with any degree of certainty. We typically ship products within a short time after we receive an order and therefore, we do not have an order backlog with which to estimate future revenue. In addition, orders from our channel partners are based on the level of demand from end-user customers. Any decline or uncertainty in end-user demand could negatively impact end-user orders, which could in turn significantly negatively affect orders from our channel partners in any given quarter. Accordingly, our expectations for both short and long-term future revenue is based almost exclusively on our own estimate of future demand based on the pipeline of sales opportunities we manage, rather than on firm channel partner orders. Our expense and inventory levels are based largely on these estimates. In addition, our events business is particularly unpredictable and subject to variation due to the short time-frame between when we learn of an opportunity and when the event occurs. Further, the majority of our product orders are received in the last month of a quarter; thus, the unpredictability of the receipt of these orders could negatively impact our future results. We historically have received all or nearly all our channel partner orders in the last month of a quarter and often in the last few days of the quarter. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in demand for our products or services in relation to our expectations, even if the result was a short term delay in orders, would have an adverse impact on our operating results.. We have experienced growing demand for our hosting and event services as well as a growing preference from our customers in purchasing our annually licensed software. As a result, we have seen an increase in service billings and recurring revenue as a percentage of total billings. We expect this trend to continue which we expect to improve predictability of revenue and gross margins but will delay the impact on revenue of any increase or decrease in billings during any particular quarter. We subcontract for some services required by our events customers, such as onsite management labor and closed captioning. We typically charge for such services at a lower margin than other services. The percentage of billings represented by services, provided either directly or indirectly, is also likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to seasonality of event services and other factors. Since content hosting and support services are typically billed in advance of providing the service, revenue is initially deferred, leading to reduced current period revenue with a corresponding negative impact to profits or losses in periods of significant increase in the percentage of our billings for deferred services.. We are subject to risks associated with our channel partners' product inventories and product sell-through.. We sell a significant amount of our products to strategic audio video (A/V) distributors such as Synnex Corporation and Starin Marketing, Inc. as well as other international distributors, such as Dalian Pushi Technology in China, and channel partners who maintain their own inventory of our products for sale to dealers and end-users. If these channel partners are unable to sell an adequate amount of their inventory of our products in a given quarter to dealers and end-users or if channel partners decide to decrease their inventories for any reason, such as a long-term continuation or increase, in global economic uncertainty, dissatisfaction with inventory turn rates or profitability and downturn in technology spending, the volume of our sales to these channel partners and our revenue would be negatively affected. In addition, if channel partners decide to purchase more inventory, due to product availability or other reasons, than is required to satisfy end-user demand or if end-user demand does not keep pace with the additional inventory purchases, channel inventory could grow in any particular quarter, which could adversely affect product revenue in the subsequent quarter. In addition, we also face the risk that some of our channel partners have inventory levels in excess of future anticipated sales. If such sales do not occur in the time frame anticipated by these channel partners for any reason, these channel partners may substantially decrease the amount of product they order from us in subsequent periods, which would harm our business.. If stock balancing returns or price adjustments exceed our reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected.. We provide three of our distributors with stock balancing return rights, which generally permit our distributors to return products, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of alternate products. We also provide price protection rights to certain distributors. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors if we lower our prices for those products within a specified time period. To cover our exposure to these product returns and price adjustments, we establish reserves based on our evaluation of historical product trends and current marketing plans. However, we cannot be assured that our reserves will be sufficient to cover our future product returns and price adjustments. If we inadequately forecast reserves, it may compromise our ability to recognize revenue to these distributors at the time of shipment. As a result, we would not be able to recognize revenue until these three distributors sell the inventory to the final end user, which would have a material adverse effect on revenues in the period covered by that change.. 17. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company.. Weakness in domestic markets and global uncertainties exist in many areas of focus for us including the United Kingdom, Japan and the Middle East. Many of our customers rely on local, state or Federal government funding, both domestically and international. Japan experienced a decline in its gross domestic product in 2013, 2014 and 2015. While it appears Japanese government subsidies are again supporting growth in higher education, any future delay or elimination of government programs will have a negative impact on our operations in Japan. Any continuing unfavorable economic conditions could continue to negatively affect, our business, operating results or financial condition, which could in turn affect our stock price. Weak economic conditions and the resulting impact on the availability of public funds along with the possibility of state and local budget cuts and reduced university enrollment could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and services. In addition, a prolonged economic downturn could cause insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company's products and inability or delay of our channel partners and other customers to pay accounts receivable owed to us.. Economic conditions may have a disproportionate effect on the sale of our products.. Many of our customers will look at the total A/V equipment and labor cost to outfit a typical conference room or lecture hall as one amount for budgetary purposes. Consequently, although our products represent only a portion of the total cost, the cost of the entire project of outfitting a room or conference hall may be considered excessive and may not survive budgetary constraints. Alternatively, our resellers may modify their quotes to end customers by eliminating our products or substituting less expensive products supplied by our competitors in order to win opportunities within budget constraints. Event service partners may similarly suggest that customers eliminate recording and webcasting as a means of reducing event cost. Consequently, declines in spending by government, educational or corporate institutions due to budgetary constraints may have a disproportionate impact on the Company and result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition.. We could lose revenues if there are changes in the spending policies or budget priorities for government funding of colleges, universities, schools and other education providers.. Most of our customers and potential customers are public colleges, universities, schools and other education providers who depend substantially on government funding. Accordingly, any general decrease, delay or change in federal, state or local funding for colleges, universities, schools and other education providers could cause our current and potential customers to reduce or delay their purchases of our products and services, or to decide not to renew service contracts, either of which could cause us to lose revenues. In addition, a specific reduction in governmental funding support for products such as ours would also cause us to lose revenues. Unfavorable economic conditions may result in further budget cuts and lead to lower overall spending, including information technology spending, by our current and potential clients, which may cause our revenues to decrease.. We depend in part on the success of our relationships with third-party resellers and integrators.. Our success depends on various third-party relationships, particularly in our non-higher education business, with certain international geographies and our events services operations. The relationships include third party resellers as well as system integrators that assist with implementations of our products and sourcing of our products and services. Identifying partners, negotiating and documenting relationships with them and maintaining their relationships require significant time and resources from us. In addition, our agreements with our resellers and integrators are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing products or services. We have limited control, if any, as to whether these strategic partners devote adequate resources to promoting, selling and implementing our products as compared to our competitor's products. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to maintain or grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results would suffer.. Our cash flow could fluctuate due to the potential difficulty of collecting our receivables.. A significant portion of our sales are fulfilled by VARs, regional distributors or master distributors. As an example, 26% of our billings in fiscal 2017 were to Synnex Corporation and Starin Marketing Inc., two master distributors who fulfill demand from other distributors, VARs or end-users. While our VARs typically maintain payment terms consistent with other end-users, our master distributors have longer payment terms and a delay in payment may occur as a result of a number of factors including changes in demand, general economic factors, financial performance, inventory levels or disputes over payments. Our distributor in China is still early in the process of building a team to address demand in China, is under-funded and, therefore, is significantly. 18. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. behind in their payments to us.  Any delay from Synnex, Starin, or other large distributors or VARs, could have a material impact on the collections of our receivables during a particular quarter.. We offer credit terms to some of our international customers; however, payments tend to go beyond terms in certain countries and advances allowable on accounts receivable from international customers under our revolving line of credit are calculated using a lower advance rate than domestic receivables, exclude certain countries and are limited to $1 million. Therefore, as Europe, Asia and other international regions grow, accounts receivable balances will likely increase as compared to previous years and our ability to finance the increase will be limited.. Supporting our existing and growing customer base and implementing large customer deployments could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to scale our operations and increase productivity, customer satisfaction and our business will be harmed.. Frequent enhancements to our software puts pressure on our customers to install, maintain and train their personnel on its use. Further, frequent releases of the software can lead to less product stability. As a result, our customer care and engineering resources have come under, and are expected in the future to come under significant pressure in providing the high-quality of technical support our customers expect during periods of high demand. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our applications and business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our products and services to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results and financial position.. As we target more of our sales efforts at larger initial transactions, we face increasingly complex deployments requiring substantial technical and management resources, including in some cases significant product customization and integration with other applications or hardware. Customers making large expenditures for our products and services typically have higher expectations of product and service operability and response time if issues arise. Some of these customers have asked us to host their content and have significant amounts of legacy content to transfer to our datacenter. Such increased activity and storage demand on our data centers put additional strain on our personnel and hosting infrastructure. Our hosting customers typically require a high level of access, data security and need to capture and store multiple high definition streams. Such requirements require costly enhancements to our infrastructure. High demand on technical and management resources to manage large transactions distract personnel from existing customers, development of new products and other important activities which could lead to potential customer dissatisfaction, product development delays or other issues associated with the distraction.. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed by us or a third party or with the type of services or solutions delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation and delay recognition of revenue, the profitability of that work might be impaired, and the customer's dissatisfaction with our services could damage our ability to obtain additional work from that customer. In addition, negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers.. The market price of our common stock may be subject to volatility. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Factors affecting the market price of our common stock include:. • Variations in our operating results, earnings per share, cash flows from operating activities, deferred revenue and other financial metrics and non-financial metrics, and how those results compare to investor expectations;. • Our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are higher or lower than expected results or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is higher or lower than expected, including as a result of difficulty forecasting seasonal variations in our financial condition and operating results;. • Changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock;. • Announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;. 19. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. • Announcements by us or by our competitors of mergers or other strategic acquisitions, or rumors of such transactions involving us or our competitors;. • Announcements of customer additions and customer cancellations or delays in customer purchases;. • Recruitment or departure of key personnel;. • Disruptions in our service due to computer hardware, software, network or data center problems;. • The economy as a whole, market conditions in our industry and the industries of our customers;. • The issuance of shares of common stock and preferred stock by us, whether in connection with an acquisition or a capital raising transaction;. • Low trading volumes of our shares and inconsistent trading activity;. • Issuance of debt and other convertible securities; and. • Any other factors discussed herein.. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The market price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies within, or outside, our industry even if these events do not directly affect us.. Accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, cause us to defer revenue recognition into future periods for all or portions of our products and services.. Revenue recognition for our products and services is complex and subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance, some of which are new, as well as varied interpretations and implementation practices for such rules. These rules require us to apply judgment in determining revenue recognition. In certain situations, we may have to defer the entire amount of revenue from a transaction, even when the product has already shipped. This may occur when the customer has delayed payment on the transaction, or in certain other circumstances, such as when we agree to extend payment terms on other invoices from such customer. In addition, we always defer revenue when services are included in a transaction, and not performed. Other factors that are considered in revenue recognition include those such as vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), best estimate of selling price and the inclusion of other services and contingencies to payment terms. We expect that we will continue to defer portions or, in certain circumstances with respect to a particular customer, all of our product or service billings because of these factors, and to the extent that management's judgment is incorrect it could result in an increase in the amount of revenue deferred in any one period. The amounts deferred may be significant and may vary from quarter to quarter depending on, among other factors, compliance with payment terms, the mix of products sold, combination of products and services sold together or contractual terms.. Additional changes in authoritative guidance, including the interpretation of \"Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)\", or changes in practice in applying such rules could also cause us to defer the recognition of revenue to future periods or recognize lower revenue.  See Note 1 - Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion.. Goodwill impairment could negatively impact our net income and stockholders' equity.. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level.  Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually and between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. The fair value of each reporting unit was initially measured as of July 1, 2017, in accordance with the routine annual test performed as of July 1, 2017. However, fair value of the reporting units was reevaluated at the end of Q4 2017 due to the decline in the Company's stock price during the quarter. As a result, the Company recorded $600 thousand of goodwill impairment based on the fair value of reporting units measured as of September 30, 2017, which reduced the carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet to $10.5 million.. There are numerous additional risks that may cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its carrying amount, which could lead to the measurement and recognition of goodwill impairment. In addition to a decline in market capitalization, these additional risks include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in legal factors or the business climate, adverse action or assessment by a regulator, the loss of key personnel, a more-likely-than-not expectation that all or a significant portion of a reporting unit may be disposed of, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, significant negative variances between actual and expected financial results, and lowered expectations of future financial results. Any further decline in the Company's market capitalization would increase the risk of further goodwill impairment.. 20. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins and earnings.. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries in the Netherlands is the Euro and in Japan is the Japanese Yen. They are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. The conversion rate of the Yen to the US Dollar rose from 101 at the start of fiscal 2017 and was approximately 112 at the end of fiscal 2017.  Similarly, at the beginning of fiscal 2017, the Euro was trading at .89 and  was approximately .85 as compared to the US Dollar at the end of fiscal 2017. The strength of the dollar impacted our ability to export profitably to Japan in fiscal 2017, and may continue to fluctuate. Any increase in the exchange rate of the US Dollar compared to the Euro or the Japanese Yen will impact our future operating results and financial position.. We may need to make acquisitions or form strategic alliances or partnerships in order to remain competitive in our market, and recent acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships, including the acquisition of Mediasite KK and Sonic Foundry International, could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value.. We completed the acquisitions of Mediasite KK in Japan and MediaMission (now Sonic Foundry International) in the Netherlands in fiscal 2014. As a result of these acquisitions, we are integrating products, services, dispersed operations, management systems and very different cultures. In the future, we may acquire or form strategic alliances or partnerships with other businesses in order to remain competitive or to acquire new technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including:. • The potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition;. • Difficulties in and the cost of integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel;. • Diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations;. • Risk of entering new markets in which we have little or no experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;. • Potential write-offs of acquired assets or investments, and potential financial and credit risks associated with acquired customers;. • Potential loss of key employees;. • Inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs;. • The inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business;. • The difficulty of transitioning the acquired technology onto our existing platforms and maintaining the security standards consistent with our other services for such technology;. • Potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;. • Unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration into existing technology;. • Negative impact to our results of operations because of the depreciation and amortization of amounts related to acquired intangible assets, fixed assets and deferred compensation, and the loss of acquired deferred revenue and unbilled deferred revenue;. • Delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition;. • The need to implement controls, procedures and policies at the acquired company;. • Challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences;. • In the case of foreign acquisitions, the challenges associated with integrating operations across different cultures and languages and currency, technological, employee and other regulatory risks and uncertainties in the economic, social and political conditions associated with specific countries; and. • The tax effects of any such acquisitions.. Our failure to successfully manage the acquisitions of Mediasite KK and Sonic Foundry International, or other future acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, our stockholders would be diluted if we finance the future acquisitions, strategic alliances or partnerships by incurring convertible debt or issuing equity securities.. If potential customers or competitors use open source software to develop products that are competitive with our products and services, we may face decreased demand and pressure to reduce the prices for our products.. The growing acceptance and prevalence of open source software may make it easier for competitors or potential competitors to develop software applications that compete with our products, or for customers and potential customers to internally develop software applications that they would otherwise have licensed from us. One of the aspects of open source software is that it can be modified or used to develop new software that competes with proprietary software applications, such as ours. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. As open source offerings become more prevalent, customers may defer or forego purchases of our products, which could reduce our sales and lengthen the sales cycle for our products or result in the loss of current customers to open source solutions. If we are unable to. 21. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. differentiate our products from competitive products based on open source software, demand for our products and services may decline, and we may face pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which would hurt our profitability. If our use of open-source is challenged and construes unfavorably, our operating results could be adversely impacted.. We use open source software in our application suite. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to re-engineer our technology or to discontinue offering all or a portion of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our customers may use our products to share confidential and sensitive information, and if our system security is breached, our reputation could be harmed and we may lose customers.. Our customers may use our products and services to share confidential and sensitive information, the security of which is critical to their business. Third parties may attempt to breach our security for customer hosted content or the networks of our customers. Malicious third-parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services. Customers may take inadequate security precautions with their sensitive information and may inadvertently make that information public. We may be liable to our customers or subject to fines for a breach in security, and any breach could harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers. In addition, customers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to further protect against security breaches or to resolve problems caused by any breach, including litigation-related expenses if we are sued.. Privacy concerns and laws, evolving regulation of cloud computing, cross-border data transfer restrictions and other domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and adversely affect our business.. Regulation related to the provision of services on the Internet is increasing, as federal, state and foreign governments continue to adopt new laws and regulations addressing data privacy and the collection, processing, storage and use of personal information, including health data. In some cases foreign data privacy laws and regulations, such as the European Union's Data Protection Directive, and the country-specific regulations that implement that directive, also govern the processing of personal information. While our European customers can confirm our participation in the EU Privacy Shield program as support that we comply with the European Union Directive on the protection of personal data, they may still have concerns about our processing of personal data and may decide not to host content with us. Further, laws are increasingly aimed at the use of personal information for marketing purposes, such as the European Union's e-Privacy Directive, and the country-specific regulations that implement that directive. Such laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and may be inconsistent among jurisdictions. These and other requirements could reduce demand for our solutions, restrict our ability to support our customers, or even offer our services and solutions in certain locations. We expect to acquire software and hardware in fiscal 2018 in order to enhance our ability to defend and to detect intrusions to our network infrastructure. These enhancements will be expensive and require significant staff time to deploy and develop, and there is no assurance that they will be effective.. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy and other industry groups have established or may establish new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. Many of our customers in the European Union face increasingly complex procurement requirements that have delayed some projects and caused us not to be successful in winning other opportunities. If we are unable to maintain these certifications or meet these standards, it could adversely affect our ability to provide our solutions to certain customers and could harm our business.. Our customers and potential customers do business in a variety of industries, including financial services, the public sector, healthcare and telecommunications. Regulators in certain industries have adopted and may in the future adopt regulations or interpretive positions regarding the use of cloud computing and other outsourced services. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, industry-specific laws, regulations and interpretive positions may limit customers' use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for our services.. The costs of compliance with and other burdens imposed by laws, regulations and standards may limit the use and adoption of our service and reduce overall demand for it, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance.. 22. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. Furthermore, concerns regarding data privacy may cause the users of our customers' data to resist providing the data necessary to allow our customers to use our service effectively. Even the perception that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions.. Operational failures in our network infrastructure could disrupt our remote hosting services, cause us to lose clients and sales to potential clients and result in increased expenses and reduced revenues.. Unanticipated problems affecting our network systems could cause interruptions or delays in the delivery of the hosting services we provide to some of our clients. We are not equipped to provide full disaster recovery to all of our hosted clients. If there are operational failures in our network infrastructure that cause interruptions, slower response times, loss of data or extended loss of service for our remotely hosted clients, we may be required to issue credits or pay penalties, current clients may terminate their contracts or elect not to renew them and we may lose sales to potential clients. We have recently acquired additional hardware and systems, expect to make more significant investments in hardware (primarily for storage) and outsourced most aspects of our network infrastructure to three providers. As a result, we are reliant on third parties for network availability so outages may be outside our control and we may need to acquire additional hardware in order to provide an appropriate level of redundancy required by our customers.. We license technology from third parties. If we are unable to maintain these licenses, our operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted.. We license technology from third parties. The loss of, our inability to maintain, or changes in material terms of these licenses could result in increased cost or delayed sales of our software and services, or may cause us to remove features from our products or services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. This technology may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we do not believe that we are substantially dependent on any individual licensed technology, some of the component technologies that we license from third parties could be difficult for us to replace. The impairment of these third-party relationships, especially if this impairment were to occur in unison, could result in delays in the delivery of our software and services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. This delay could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. The technology underlying our products and services is complex and may contain unknown defects that could harm our reputation, result in product liability or decrease market acceptance of our products.. The technology underlying our products is complex and includes software that is internally developed, software licensed from third parties and hardware purchased from third parties. These products have, and will in the future, contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We may not discover defects that affect our current or new applications or enhancements until after they are sold and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our exposure. Any defects in our products and services could:. • Damage our reputation;. • Cause our customers to initiate product liability suits against us;. • Increase our product development resources;. • Cause customers to cancel orders, ask for partial refunds or potential customers to purchase competitive products or services;. • Delay release or market acceptance of our products, or otherwise adversely impact our relationships with our customers; and. • Cause us to allocate valuable engineering resources to fix our existing products, which may cause us to allocate fewer resources toward developing new products, or toward adding features to our existing products.. If we are viewed only as a commodity supplier, our margins and valuations will shrink.. We need to provide value-added services in order to avoid being viewed as a commodity supplier. This entails building long-term customer relationships and developing features that will distinguish our products. Our technology is complex and is often confused with other products and technologies in the market place, including video conferencing, streaming and collaboration.. We have developed lower cost hardware, software products and cloud solutions to better address the more cost conscious customers. Such products have more limited features compared to our existing products. While we believe we can preserve the market for our full-featured products due to differentiation between the two and migration to full featured products, release of lower cost. 23. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. products could reduce gross margin and demand for products sold at higher prices. Potential large scale deployments of our products often include the lower cost products we sell, putting greater pressure on gross margin due to expectations for greater volume discounts.. If we fail to build long-term customer relationships, develop features that distinguish our products in the market place and address the market for lower function and cost solutions, our margins will shrink and our stock may become less valuable to investors.. Our success depends upon the proprietary aspects of our technology.. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology. We currently have four U.S. patents that have been issued to us. We may seek additional patents in the future. However, it is possible that:. • Any patents acquired by or issued to us may not be broad enough to protect us.. • Any issued patent could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents.. • Current and future competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our services or design around any of our patents.. • Effective patent protection, including effective legal-enforcement mechanisms against those who violate our patent-related assets, may not be available in every country in which we do or plan to do business.. • We may not have the resources to enforce our patents or may determine the potential benefits are not worth the cost and risk of ultimately being unsuccessful.. We also rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, which may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property.. We also rely on a combination of laws, such as copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our technology. We have registered three U.S. and four foreign country trademarks. These forms of intellectual property protection are critically important to our ability to establish and maintain our competitive position. However, it is possible that:. • Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights.. • Laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or to deter others from developing similar technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully or as readily as Unites States laws. Our recent growth in activities in China will likely increase this risk.. • There have been attacks on certain patent systems, increasing the likelihood of changes to established laws, including in the United States. We cannot predict the long-term effects of any potential changes, which could be detrimental to our licensing program.. • Effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, including effective legal-enforcement mechanisms against those who violate our trademark, copyright or trade secret assets, may be cost prohibitive or unavailable or limited in foreign countries.. • Contractual agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information.. • Other companies may claim common law trademark rights based upon state or foreign laws that precede the federal registration of our marks.. • Policing unauthorized use of our services and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use.. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which would significantly harm our business.. If other parties bring infringement or other claims against us, we may incur significant costs or lose customers.. Other companies may obtain patents or other proprietary rights that would limit our ability to conduct our business and could assert that our technologies infringe their proprietary rights. We have incurred substantial costs to defend against such claims in the past and could incur legal costs in the future, even if without merit, and intellectual property litigation could force us to cease using key technology, obtain a license or redesign our products. In the course of our business, we may sell certain systems to our customers, and in connection with such sale, we may agree to indemnify these customers from claims made against them by third parties for patent infringement related to these systems, which could harm our business.. 24. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. If we lose key personnel or fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, our ability to manage our business could be impaired.. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales and other critical personnel, particularly our Chief Executive Officer. Most of our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. Key personnel have left our company in the past, sometimes to accept employment with companies that sell similar products or services to existing or potential customers of ours. There will likely be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future and such departures could result in additional competition, loss of customers or confusion in the marketplace. As we seek to replace such departures, or expand our business, the hiring of qualified sales, technical and support personnel has been difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives and the results of our operations. In addition, we do not have life insurance policies on any of our key employees. If we lose the services of any of our key employees, the integration of replacement personnel could be time consuming, may cause disruptions to our operations and may be unsuccessful.. We face risks associated with government regulation of the internet and related legal uncertainties.. Currently, few existing laws or regulations specifically apply to the Internet, other than laws generally applicable to businesses. Many Internet-related laws and regulations, however, are pending and may be adopted in the United States, in individual states and local jurisdictions and in other countries. These laws may relate to many areas that impact our business, including encryption, network and information security, and the convergence of traditional communication services, such as telephone services, with Internet communications, taxes and wireless networks. These types of regulations could differ between countries and other political and geographic divisions both inside and outside the United States. Non-U.S. countries and political organizations may impose, or favor, more and different regulation than that which has been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of regulation. In addition, state and local governments within the United States may impose regulations in addition to, inconsistent with, or stricter than federal regulations. The adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity, interpretation, applicability and enforcement, may affect the available distribution channels for, and the costs associated with, our products and services. The adoption of such laws and regulations may harm our business.. Exercise of outstanding options and warrants will result in further dilution.. The issuance of shares of common stock upon the exercise of our outstanding options and warrants will result in dilution to the interests of our stockholders, and may reduce the trading price of our common stock.. At September 30, 2017, we had 135 thousand outstanding warrants and 1.8 million of outstanding stock options granted under our stock option plans, 1.4 million of which are immediately exercisable.. While nearly all outstanding warrants and options are currently priced above the market price of our common stock, dilution to the interests of our stockholders will likely occur if or when they are exercised. Additional options and warrants may be issued in the future at prices not less than 85% of the fair market value of the underlying security on the date of grant. Exercises of these options, or even the potential of their exercise may have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. The holders of our options are likely to exercise them at times when the market price of the common stock exceeds the exercise price of the securities. Accordingly, the issuance of shares of common stock upon exercise of the options will likely result in dilution of the equity represented by the then outstanding shares of common stock held by other stockholders. Holders of our options can be expected to exercise or convert them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms, which are more favorable to us than the exercise terms provided, by these options.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited.. The use of our net operating loss carryforwards may have limitations resulting from certain future ownership changes, time limitations or other factors under the Internal Revenue Code and other taxing authorities.. If our net operating loss carryforwards are limited, and we have taxable income which exceeds the available net operating loss carryforwards for that period, we would incur an income tax liability even though net operating loss carryforwards may be available in future years prior to their expiration. Any such income tax liability may adversely affect our future cash flow, financial position and financial results.. 25. Table of Contents. Sonic Foundry, Inc.. Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the Year Ended September 30, 2017. Our business is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure that will increase both our costs and the risk of noncompliance.. As a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices and continue to update the program in response to newly implemented regulatory requirements and guidance, we cannot assure that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations.. Although our non-affiliate market capitalization was less than $75 million at March 31, 2017 and we were therefore not required to have an auditor attestation on our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2017, SEC rules may in the future require us to have such an attestation if our non-affiliate market capitalization exceeds a certain threshold. We have found material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure that in the future our management or our auditors, will not find additional material weaknesses in connection with our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot assure that we could correct all such weaknesses to allow our management to attest that we have maintained effective internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to attest that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or attest that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines, or other sanctions or litigation. In addition, the disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our stock price.. Provisions of our charter documents and Maryland law could also discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders.. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. Furthermore, our articles of incorporation provide for a classified board of directors, which means that our stockholders may vote upon the retention of only one or two of our five directors each year. Moreover, Maryland corporate law restricts certain business combination transactions with \"interested stockholders\" and limits voting rights upon certain acquisitions of \"control shares.\" In addition, even when there are no interested stockholders involved in a transaction, Maryland law requires that a transaction involving a merger, consolidation, transfer of assets, or share exchange, must be approved by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the Company's stockholders.. Our executive officers, directors, and several stockholders and their affiliated entities together beneficially own, on an \"as converted basis\", over 32% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together or in a block, could have significant influence over most matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions, even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial."
