[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also materially impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial conditions or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. 14. Risks Related to the Company. If the current financial crisis and the slowdown of the global economy continues, more countries may resort to protectionist measures which would negatively affect our export sales.. As a result of global economic conditions and little or no growth in many countries, there is a risk of increased international trade protectionism. Many countries would set up trade barriers which would negatively affect our export sales, as well as increase litigation risk in the countries to which our products are exported.. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy depends upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced management and other key personnel and we cannot assure that we will be able to hire or retain such employees.. We must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. Our ability to effectively implement our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced management and other key personnel. As the economy in China expands, there is increasing competition for skilled workers in China. We cannot assure that we will be able to find, hire or retain such employees, or even if we are able to do so, that the cost of these employees will not adversely affect our net income.. Certain of our officers and directors have responsibilities to other businesses in addition to our Company and as a result, conflicts of interest between us and the other activities of those persons may occur from time to time.. Certain persons serving as our officers and directors have existing responsibilities and, in the future, may have additional responsibilities, to provide management and services to other entities in addition to us. In particular, Mr. Xiao Ping Zhang, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is an officer and a principal stockholder of the Ruili Group, which is engaged in the development, production and sale of various kinds of automotive parts as well as operating a hotel property and investing in the development of real property in China. The management of our Joint Venture is shared with the Ruili Group and therefore there may exist conflicts of interest between us and the Ruili Group in connection with its operation. Our Joint Venture Agreement provides that the board of directors of the Joint Venture is comprised of three persons, two of whom are appointed by us and the remaining one is appointed by the Ruili Group. However, at this time, three of the directors of the Joint Venture, Messrs. Xiao Ping Zhang, Xiao Feng Zhang and Ms. Shu Ping Chi, are also directors of us and the founders and executives of Ruili Group. There can be no assurance that in the event of a conflict between us and the Ruili Group, our interests in the Joint Venture will not be adversely affected or that our Company’s interests will always be fairly represented. The Ruili Group also provides certain services to the Company in the form of bank guaranties and licensing of certain intellectual property rights and technology. As a result, conflicts of interest between us and the Ruili Group may occur from time to time. Our officers and directors are accountable to us and our shareholders as fiduciaries, which requires that such officers and directors exercise the duty of loyalty and the duty of care in managing our affairs. However, the existing responsibilities limit the amount of time such officers and directors can spend on our affairs.. We are and will continue to be under downward pricing pressures on our products from our customers and competitors which may adversely affect our growth, profit margins and net income.. We face continuing downward pricing pressures from our customers and competitors, especially in the sales of replacement parts. To retain our existing customers and attract new ones, we must continue to keep our unit prices low. In view of our need to maintain low prices on our products, our growth, profit margins and net income will suffer if we cannot effectively continue to control our manufacturing and other costs.. Our contracts with our customers are generally short-term and do not require the purchase of a minimum amount, which may result in periods of time during which we have limited orders for our products.. Our customers generally do not provide us with firm, long-term volume purchase commitments. Although we enter into manufacturing contracts with certain of our customers who have continuing demand for a certain product, these contracts usually do not provide for firm, long-term commitments to purchase products from us. As a result of the absence of long-term contracts, we could have periods during which we have no or only limited orders for our products, but we continue to have to pay the costs to maintain our work force and our manufacturing facilities and to meet other fixed costs, without the benefit of current revenues.. 15. We consistently face short lead times for delivery of products to customers. Failure to meet delivery deadlines in our production agreements could result in the loss of customers and damage to our reputation and goodwill.. We enter into production agreements with our customers prior to commencing production, which reduces our risk of cancellations. However, these production agreements typically contain short lead time for delivery of products, leading to production schedules that can strain our resources and reduce our profit margins on the products produced. Although we have increased our manufacturing capacity, we may lack sufficient capacity at any given time to meet all of our customers’ demands if they exceed production capacity levels. We strive for rapid response to customer demands, which can lead to reduced purchasing efficiency and increased material costs. If we are unable to sufficiently meet our customers’ demands, we may lose our customers. Moreover, failure to meet customer demands may impair our reputation and goodwill.. Because of the short lead time in our production agreements, we may not be able to accurately or effectively plan our production or supply needs.. We make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, facility requirements, personnel needs, and other resource requirements, based on our production agreements with our customers. Short lead time of our customers’ commitments to their own customers and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to estimate accurately the future requirements of those customers for our products. Because many of our costs and operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demands can harm our sales, margins and operating results. We may also occasionally acquire raw materials without having customer orders based on a customer’s forecast or in anticipation of an order or to secure more favorable pricing, delivery or credit terms in view of the short lead time we often have under our customers’ orders. These purchases can expose us to losses from inventory carrying costs or inventory obsolescence.. Our operations depend highly on Mr. Xiao Ping Zhang, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Ms. Jin Rui Yu, our Chief Operating Officer, and a small number of other executives, and the loss of any such executive could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.. The success of our operations depends greatly on a small number of key managers, particularly, Mr. Xiao Ping Zhang and Ms. Jin Rui Yu. The loss of the service of Mr. Zhang, or any of the other senior executives could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Even if we are able to find other managers to replace any of these managers, the search for such managers and the integration of such managers into our business will inevitably occur only over an extended period of time. During that time the lack of senior leadership could adversely affect our sales and manufacturing activities, as well as our research and development efforts.. We may not be able to respond effectively to rapid growth in demands for our products, which could adversely affect our customer relations and our growth prospects.. If we continue to be successful in obtaining rapid market penetration of our products, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. Meeting such increased demands will require us to expand our manufacturing facilities, to increase our ability to purchase raw materials, to increase the size of our work force, to expand our quality control capabilities and to increase the scale upon which we produce products. Such demands would require more capital and working capital than we currently have available.. We may not be able to finance the development of new products, which could negatively impact our competitiveness.. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new products that compare favorably on the basis of cost and performance with the products of our competitors. Some of our competitors have design and manufacturing capabilities and technologies to produce products that compete well with our products, particularly in markets outside of China. We are currently conducting research and development activities on a number of new products, requiring a substantial outlay of capital. To remain competitive, we must continue to incur significant costs in product development, equipment, facilities and invest in research and development of new products. These costs may result in greater fixed costs and operating expenses. All of these factors create pressures on our working capital and ability to fund our current and future manufacturing activities and the expansion of our business.. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers which may make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and expose us to risks of substantial losses if we lose one or more major customers.. Although no customer individually accounted for more than 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 11.8% and 10.6% of our revenues in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if one or more major customers stop purchasing our products.. 16. Our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights effectively which may be difficult particularly in China.. The success of our business depends on the legal protection of the intellectual property rights we hold. As of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, we own 617 patents and additional 745 under applications. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contracts, including nondisclosure agreements. If these contractual measures fail to protect our proprietary rights, any advantage that those proprietary rights provide to us would be negated. Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property and/or know-how, particularly in China and other countries in which the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Accordingly, other parties, including competitors, may improperly duplicate our products using our proprietary technologies. Pursuing legal remedies against persons infringing our patents or otherwise improperly using our proprietary information is a costly and time consuming process that would divert management’s attention and other resources from the conduct of our normal business, and could cause delays and other problems with the marketing and sales of our products, as well as delays in deliveries.. It may be difficult to find or integrate acquisition targets which could have an adverse effect on our expansion plans.. An important component of our growth strategy is to invest in or acquire companies such as other automotive parts manufacturers and distribution companies. We may be unable to identify suitable investment or acquisition candidates, or to make these investments or acquisitions on a commercially reasonable basis, if at all. If we complete an investment or acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction.. Integrating an acquired company is a complex, distracting, time consuming and potentially expensive process. The successful integration of an acquisition target would require us to:. ·integrate and retain key management, sales, research and development, and other personnel;. ·incorporate the acquired products or capabilities into ours from engineering, sales and marketing perspectives;. ·coordinate research and development efforts;. ·integrate and support pre-existing supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and       ·     Consolidate duplicate facilities and functions and combine administrative, accounting and order processing and supporting functions.. The geographic distance between the companies, the complexity of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures being combined may increase the difficulties of combining an acquired company. Acquired businesses are likely to have different standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies, making it more difficult to implement and harmonize company-wide financial, accounting, billing, information and other systems. Management’s focus on integrating operations may distract attention from our day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts.. With the automobile parts markets being highly competitive and many of our competitors having greater resources than we do, we may not be able to compete successfully.. The automobile parts industry is highly competitive. Factors considered by our customers and potential customers include:. ·Quality;. ·Price/cost competitiveness;. ·Product performance;. ·Reliability and timeliness of delivery;. ·New product and technology development capability;. ·Degree of global and local presence;. ·Effectiveness of customer service; and. ·Overall management capability.. Depending on the particular product market (Chinese OEM Market or Chinese Aftermarket) and geographic market, the number of our competitors varies significantly. Many of our competitors have substantially greater revenues and financial resources than we do, as well as stronger brand names, higher consumer recognition, better business relationships with vehicle manufacturers, and broader geographic presence than we have, especially where we intend to enter a new geographic market. We may not be able to compete effectively and increased competition may substantially harm our market position.. 17. Internationally, we face different market dynamics and competition. We may not be as successful as our competitors in generating revenues in international markets due to the lack of recognition of our brands, products or other factors. Developing product recognition overseas is expensive and time-consuming and our international expansion efforts may be more costly and less profitable than we expect.. If we are not able to expand our business in our target markets, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share.. A disruption at our sole manufacturing site would significantly interrupt our production capabilities, which could have drastic consequences to us, including threatening our financial viability.. We currently manufacture all of our products at our sole commercial manufacturing facility, which is located near Ruian City, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, China. Accordingly, we face risks inherent in operating a single manufacturing facility, since any disruption, such as a fire, or natural disaster, could significantly interrupt our manufacturing capability. We currently do not have alternative production plans in place or disaster-recovery facilities available. In case of a disruption, we will have to lease, acquire or build alternative manufacturing facilities. This would require substantial capital on our part, which we may not be able to obtain on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, we would likely experience months or years of production delays as we build or look for replacement facilities and seek necessary regulatory approvals. If this occurs, we will be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. Also, operating any new facilities may be more expensive than operating our current facility. For these reasons, a significant disruptive event at our manufacturing facility could have drastic consequences on us, including threatening our financial viability.. The cyclical nature of commercial vehicle production and sales could result in a reduction in automotive sales, which could adversely affect our financial liquidity.. Our sales to OEMs depend on automotive commercial vehicle production and sales by our customers, which are highly cyclical and affected by general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences. They also can be affected by government policies, labor relations issues, regulatory requirements, and other factors. In addition, in the last two years, the price of commercial vehicles in China has generally declined. As a result, the volume of commercial vehicle productions in China has fluctuated from year to year, which has caused fluctuations in the demand for our products.. Increasing costs for manufactured components and raw materials may adversely affect our profitability.. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, including castings, electronic components, finished sub-components, molded plastic parts, fabricated metal, aluminum and steel, and resins. Because it may be difficult to pass price increases for these items on to our customers, a significant increase in the prices of our components and materials could materially increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profit margins and profitability.. Longer product life of parts may reduce aftermarket demand for some of our products.. In 2017, approximately 35.4% of our sales were sales to the aftermarket. The average useful life of original equipment parts has been steadily increasing in recent years due to improved quality and innovations in products and technologies. Longer product lives allow vehicle owners to replace parts of their vehicles less often. Additional increases in the average useful life of automotive parts are likely to adversely affect the demand for our aftermarket products.. We may be subject to product liability, warranty and recall claims, which may increase the costs of doing business and adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims if our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. We have not obtained product liability insurance and therefore may be exposed to potential liability without any insurance. We cannot assure you that we would not incur significant costs to defend any claims or that we will not experience any product liability losses in the future. In addition, if any of our designed products are or are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of such products. We cannot assure you that the future costs associated with providing product warranties and/or bearing the cost of repair or replacement of our products will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. 18. We are subject to environmental and safety regulations, which may increase our compliance costs.. We are subject to the requirements of environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations in China and other countries where we sell our products. To the extent that we expect to expand our operations into other geographic areas, we will become subject to such laws and regulations of those countries as well. We cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be at all times in full compliance with all of these requirements, or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. The capital requirements and other expenditures that may be necessary to comply with environmental and safety requirements could increase and become a material expense of doing business.. Non-performance by our suppliers may adversely affect our operations by delaying delivery or causing delivery failures, which may negatively affect customer demands, sales and profitability.. We purchase various types of equipment, raw materials and manufactured component parts from our suppliers. We would be materially and adversely affected by the failure of our suppliers to perform as expected. We could experience delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products if our suppliers failed to perform, and we also face these risks in the event any of our suppliers becomes insolvent or bankrupt.. Our commercial viability depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties.. In the event that our technologies infringe or violate the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing or commercialization of our products that utilize such technologies. We may not be aware that our products or operations infringe upon patents or other rights held by others. In addition, given the complexities and uncertainties of patent laws, there may be patents that we currently do not believe we fringe but in the future we may ultimately be held to infringe, particularly if the claims of such patents are determined to be broader than we believe them to be. As a result, avoiding patent infringement may be difficult.. If a third party claims that we infringe its patents, any of the following may occur:. ·We may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent;. ·A court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and. ·We may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time.. In addition, employees, consultants, contractors and others may use trade secrets of others in their work for us or disclose our trade secrets to others. Any of such conducts could lead to disputes over the ownership of inventions derived from that information or expose us to potential damages or other penalties. If any of these events occurs, our business will likely suffer and the market price of our common stock will likely decline.. Our international expansion plans subject us to risks inherent in doing business internationally.. Our long-term business strategy relies on the expansion of our international sales outside China by targeting markets, such as Europe and the United States. Risks affecting our international expansion include challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, international import and export legislation, trading and investment policies, foreign currency fluctuations, the burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries, foreign tax consequences, higher costs associated with doing business internationally, restrictions on the export or import of technology, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, trade and tariff restrictions, and variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. 19. Risks Related to Doing Business in China or Owning Shares in China-Based Business. We operate from facilities that are located in China. Our principal operating subsidiary, Ruili Group Ruian Auto Parts Co., Ltd., is a Sino-Foreign joint venture organized under the laws of China.. Changes in China’s political and economic policies and conditions could cause a substantial decline in the demand for our products and services.. Historically, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenues from China. We anticipate that China will continue to be our primary production location and an important sales base in the near future. Currently, almost all of our production assets are located in China. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms to transform its economy from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy since 1979, a large part of the PRC economy is still being operated under varying degrees of control by the PRC government. By imposing industrial policies and other economic measures, such as restrictions on lending to certain sectors of the economy, control of foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the PRC economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental and are subject to risks and even set-backs. Other political, economic and social factors may also lead to further adjustments of the PRC reform measures. This refining and adjustment process may have a negative effect on our operations and our future business development. For example, the PRC government has in the past implemented a number of measures intended to slow down certain segments of the PRC economy that the PRC government believed to be overheating, including placing additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans by raising bank reserve-against-deposit ratios. Historically, this restrictive policy on loans had the effect of decreasing infrastructure projects resulting in a decrease in demand for heavy trucks, thus adversely impacting our product sales to our OEM customers. Because of the negative impact of the Chinese government policies on the truck manufacturers, we also were required to extend our normal credit terms to certain of these manufacturers. Our operating results may be materially and adversely affected by changes in the PRC economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion.. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in China may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currencies.. The official currency of the PRC, Renminbi (RMB), is not a freely convertible currency and the restrictions on currency exchanges in China may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Over the years, the PRC government has significantly reduced its control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade-and service-related foreign exchange transactions, foreign debt service and payment of dividends. In accordance with the existing foreign exchange regulations in China, our PRC joint venture may pay dividends in foreign currencies, without pre-approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. The PRC government may, however, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions and prohibit us from converting our RMB-denominated earnings into foreign currencies. If this occurs, our PRC joint venture may not be able to pay us dividends in foreign currency without prior approval from SAFE. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account remain subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. This could affect our ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing and our ability to make overseas acquisitions or investments.. Fluctuation in the value of RMB could adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our shares in foreign currency terms.. The value of RMB is subject to changes in PRC government policies and depends to a large extent on China’s domestic and international economic, financial and political developments, as well as the currency’s supply and demand in the local market. For over a decade from 1994, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, was based on exchange rates set and published daily by the People’s Bank of China, the PRC central bank, based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and exchange rates on the world financial markets. The official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars remained stable until RMB was revalued in July 2005 and allowed to fluctuate by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, RMB will be permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of foreign currencies. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantially more liberalized currency policy, which could result in a more volatile fluctuation in the value of RMB against the U.S. dollar, which may materially and negatively impact our costs of doing business and revenues from export sales.. 20. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to our shareholders.. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common-law system, the civil law system is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investments. Our PRC joint venture is a Sino-Foreign joint venture and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in particular. China has made significant progress in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and abrogation of local regulations by national laws may have a negative impact on our business and prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and because of the limited volume of published cases, the interpretation and enforcement of those laws, regulations and legal requirements involve significant uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, including our shareholders. For example, it is not clear if a PRC court would enforce in China a foreign court decision made in any case brought by our shareholders against us in shareholders’ derivative actions.. Moreover, the enforceability of contracts in China, especially with governmental entities, including state-owned enterprises, is relatively uncertain. If counterparties repudiated our contracts or defaulted on their obligations, we might not have adequate remedies. Such uncertainties or inability to enforce our contracts could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings.. Our primary source of funds for dividends and other distributions from our operating subsidiary in China is subject to various legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties as well as the practice of such subsidiary in declaring dividends, and our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders may be negatively affected by those restrictions, uncertainties and dividend practices.. We conduct our core business operations through the Joint Venture. As a result, our profits available for distribution to our shareholders are dependent on the profits available for distribution from the Joint Venture. Under current PRC law, the Joint Venture is regarded as a foreign-invested enterprise in China. Although dividends paid by foreign invested enterprises are not subject to any PRC corporate withholding tax, PRC law permits payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Determination of net income under PRC accounting standards and regulations may differ from determination under U.S. GAAP in significant aspects, such as the use of different principles for recognition of revenues and expenses. Under PRC law, the Joint Venture is required to set aside 10% of its net income each year to fund a designated statutory reserve fund until such funds reach 50% of registered share capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result, our primary internal source of funds for dividend payments is subject to these and other legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties, which in turn may limit or impair our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders although we do not presently anticipate paying any dividends. Moreover, any transfer of funds from us to the Joint Venture, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration with or approval by PRC governmental authorities. These limitations on the flow of funds between us and the Joint Venture could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. To date, the Joint Venture has not distributed any profits and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future.. China’s economic reform policies, including the risk of nationalization, could result in a total investment loss in our common stock.. Since 1979, the Chinese government has reformed its economic systems. Because many reforms are unprecedented or experimental, they are subject to risks and even set-backs. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or the disparities in per capita wealth between regions within China, could lead to further adjustment of the reform measures. This refining and adjustment process may negatively affect our operations.. Although the Chinese government controls many productive assets in China, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activities. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, there are no assurances that:. ·We will be able to capitalize on economic reforms;. ·The Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies;. ·The economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful;. ·Economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; and. ·Business operations in China will not become subject to the risk of nationalization.. 21. There can be no assurance that the reforms to China’s economic system will continue or that we will not be adversely affected by changes in China’s political, economic, and social conditions and by changes in policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws and regulations, measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, changes affecting currency conversion and remittance abroad, and changes in tariffs and other import controls. A material change in China’s economic reform policies, including the risk of nationalization, could result in a total loss of investment in our common stock.. Because our principal operating company is organized under the laws of China, and substantially all of our assets are located in China, our shareholders may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China against us or our management.. The Joint Venture is incorporated under the laws of China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state laws. Moreover, China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of court judgments with the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan or many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments issued by courts in the United States or any of the other jurisdictions mentioned above in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in China against us, our directors, managers, or executive officers. In connection with any such original action, a Chinese court may award civil liability, including monetary damages. However, there is no assurance that such judgment can be effectively or timely enforced in China.. It is likely that China will adopt stricter environmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products or restricting the disposal of any waste by us, which would likely increase our operating costs.. National, provincial and local laws of China impose various environmental regulations relating to the manufacturing of automotive parts and/or of certain materials used in the manufacturing process of automotive parts. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. In addition, China is experiencing substantial problems with environmental pollution. Accordingly, it is likely that its national, provincial and local governmental agencies will adopt stricter pollution controls. Any such regulations relating to the manufacturing, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products or restricting the disposal of any waste by us would likely increase our operating costs.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, which could result in a complete loss of your investment.. The market price for our common stock may be volatile, in response to factors, such as:. ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;. ·announcements of new products by us or our competitors;. ·changes in financial forecasts by securities analysts;. ·changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies involved in the production of automotive parts;. ·announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. ·additions or departures of key personnel;. ·intellectual property or other litigation; and. ·changes in conditions in the automotive market, including change in macroeconomic conditions or other development in the market, especially in China.. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. 22. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash to fund working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders may experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in us.. We may seek to further expand our operations and therefore we may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash to fund working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders may experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in us.. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders and as a result, these stockholders collectively are able to control the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters.. A large portion of our common stock is held by a small number of stockholders. Mr. Xiao Ping Zhang, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, his wife Ms. Shu Ping Chi, and his brother Mr. Xiao Feng Zhang, all of whom are the directors of our board, holding approximately 47.1%, 5.9% and 5.9% respectively, of the Company’s outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. As a result, these stockholders collectively are able to control the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and other corporate transactions including business combinations.. Because of the relatively small public float of our common stock, any sale of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the market perception that such a sale could occur, may significantly affect our stock price and could impair our ability to raise future capital.. Because of the relatively small public float of our common stock, any sale of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sale could occur, may significantly affect our stock price and could impair our ability to raise future capital through an offering of equity securities. This could have an adverse effect on our business by restricting our access to working capital to fund growth and operations.. If we cannot continue to satisfy the Nasdaq Global Market’s listing maintenance requirements and other Nasdaq rules, our common stock could be delisted, which could negatively affect the price of our common stock and your ability to sell them.. In order to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq Global Market, we will be required to comply with Nasdaq rules which include rules regarding minimum shareholders’ equity, minimum share price, and certain corporate governance requirements. We may not be able to continue to satisfy the listing maintenance requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market and other applicable Nasdaq rules. If we are unable to satisfy the NASDAQ criteria for maintaining listing, our common stock could be subject to delisting. If our common stock is delisted, trading, if any, of our common stock would thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market, such as the so-called “OTC Pink” or the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). As a consequence of any such delisting, our share price could be negatively affected and our stockholders would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices of, our common stock.. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. Our current board of directors does not anticipate that we will pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain future earnings for reinvestment in our business and/or to fund future acquisitions. Determination of net income under PRC accounting standards and regulations may differ from determination under U.S. GAAP in significant aspects, such as the use of different principles for recognition of revenues and expenses. Under PRC law, the Joint Venture is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund designated statutory reserve funds.. We may be required to indemnify our officers and directors, which could result in substantial expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup.. Our Bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, for damages, attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on behalf of us. Such indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup.. 23. There can be no assurance that we will have the personnel, financial resources or expertise to continue to meet requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. The US Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002, better known as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, was one of the most sweeping laws to affect U.S. publicly-traded companies in 70 years. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act created a set of complex and burdensome regulations. Compliance with such regulations imposes substantial burdens in terms of financial expense and commitment of personnel. There can be no assurance that we will have the personnel, financial resources or expertise to continue to meet requirements of these regulations."
