[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are the material risks that may affect us. Any of the risks discussed herein can materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance.. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties. If the economy falls into a recessionary period or fails to maintain positive growth, our operating performance and financial results may be harmed by declines in occupancy, average daily room rates and/or other operating revenues.. The performance of the lodging industry and the general economy historically have been closely linked. In an economic downturn, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce costs by limiting travel and/or reducing costs on their trips. Our hotels, which are all full-service hotels, may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. A decrease in demand for hotel stays and hotel services will negatively affect our operating revenues, which will lower our cash flow and may affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders and to maintain compliance with our loan obligations. We had net loss attributable to the common shareholders of approximately $3.3 million for the 2017 fiscal year. An economic downturn may increase our losses or reduce our income in the future. A weakening of the economy may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations and we cannot predict the likelihood, severity or duration of any such downturn. Moreover, reduced revenues as a result of a weakening economy may also reduce our working capital and impact our long-term business strategy.. We own a limited number of hotels and significant adverse changes at one hotel could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and may limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, our portfolio consisted of eleven wholly-owned hotels with a total of 2,838 rooms and the hotel commercial condominium unit of the Hyde Resort & Residences condominium hotel. Significant adverse changes in the operations of any one hotel could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and, accordingly, on our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. We are subject to risks of increased hotel operating expenses and decreased hotel revenues.. Our leases with our TRS Lessees provide for the payment of rent based in part on gross revenues from our hotels. Our TRS Lessees are subject to hotel operating risks including decreased hotel revenues and increased hotel operating expenses, including but not limited to the following:. •  wage and benefit costs;. •  repair and maintenance expenses;. •  energy costs;. •  property taxes;. •  insurance costs; and. •  other operating expenses.. Any increases in these operating expenses can have a significant adverse impact on our TRS Lessees' ability to pay rent and other operating expenses and, consequently, our earnings and cash flow.. In keeping with our investment strategy, we may acquire, renovate and/or re-brand hotels in new or existing geographic markets as part of our repositioning strategy. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand for newly repositioned hotels could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to comply with covenants in the indenture to the 7.25% Notes and to make distributions to the Company's stockholders.. We have in the past, and may in the future, develop or acquire hotels in geographic areas in which our management may have little or no operating experience. Additionally, those properties may also be renovated and re-branded as part of a repositioning strategy. Potential customers may not be familiar with our newly renovated hotel or be aware of the brand change. As a result, we may have to incur costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of those new hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other geographic areas. These hotels may attract fewer customers than expected and we may choose to increase spending on advertising and marketing to promote the hotel and increase customer demand. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand at new hotel properties, therefore, could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to comply with covenants in the indenture and to make distributions to the Company's stockholders.  On March 1, 2018, we acquired the Hyatt Centric. 13. Arlington located in Arlington, Virginia.  If this hotel attracts fewer customers than anticipated, it could adversely affect our financial performance.. We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel and as a result, our returns are dependent on the management of our hotels by our hotel management companies.. Since federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing hotels, we do not operate or manage our hotels. Instead, we lease all of our hotels to our TRS Lessees, and our TRS Lessees retain managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements.. Under the terms of our management agreements with our hotel managers and the REIT qualification rules, our ability to participate in operating decisions regarding the hotels is limited. We will depend on our hotel managers to operate our hotels as provided in the management agreements. We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel. Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, RevPAR, and average daily rates (\"ADR\"), we may not be able to force a hotel management company to change its method of operating our hotels. Additionally, in the event that we need to replace a hotel management company in the future, we may be required by the terms of the applicable management agreement to pay substantial termination fees and may experience significant disruptions at the affected hotels.. Our ability to make distributions to the Company's stockholders is subject to fluctuations in our financial performance, operating results and capital improvement requirements.. As a REIT, the Company is required to distribute, as \"qualifying distributions,\" at least 90.0% of its REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding its net capital gains, and reduced by certain non-cash items), each year to the Company's stockholders. However, several factors may make us unable to declare or pay distributions to the Company's stockholders, including poor operating results and financial performance or unanticipated capital improvements to our hotels, including capital improvements that may be required by our franchisors.. We lease all of our hotels to our TRS Lessees. Our TRS Lessees are subject to hotel operating risks, including risks of sustaining operating losses after payment of hotel operating expenses, including management fees. Among the factors which could cause our TRS Lessees to fail to make required rent payments are reduced net operating profits or operating losses, increased debt service requirements and capital expenditures at our hotels, including capital expenditures required by the franchisors of our hotels. Among the factors that could reduce the net operating profits of our TRS Lessees are decreases in hotel revenues and increases in hotel operating expenses. Hotel revenue can decrease for a number of reasons, including increased competition from a new supply of hotel rooms and decreased demand for hotel rooms. These factors can reduce both occupancy and room rates at our hotels.. The amount of any dividend distributions to holders of the Company's common stock is in the sole discretion of the Company's board of directors, which will consider, among other factors, our financial performance, debt service obligations, debt covenants and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash to fund distributions.. Geographic concentration of our hotels makes our business vulnerable to economic downturns in the mid-Atlantic and southern United States.. Our hotels are located in the mid-Atlantic and southern United States. As a result, economic conditions in the mid-Atlantic and southern United States significantly affect our revenues and the value of our hotels to a greater extent than if we had a more geographically diversified portfolio. Business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other similar factors that may adversely affect the economic climate in these areas could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Any resulting oversupply or reduced demand for hotels in the mid-Atlantic and southern United States and in our markets in particular would therefore have a disproportionate negative impact on our revenues and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. A substantial number of our hotels operate under brands owned by Hilton Worldwide (Hilton); therefore, we are subject to risks associated with concentrating our portfolio in one brand.  We also own hotels operated under brands owned by InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG), Marriott International, Inc. (Marriott) and Hyatt Hotels Corporation (Hyatt).. In our portfolio, the majority of the hotels that we owned as of December 31, 2017 utilize brands owned by Hilton. As a result, our success is dependent in part on the continued success of Hilton and their respective brands. If market recognition or the positive perception of Hilton is reduced or compromised, the goodwill associated with the Hilton branded hotels in our portfolio may be adversely affected, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability. 14. to make distributions to our stockholders.  As of March 1, 2018, we owned one property each under the IHG, Marriott, and Hyatt brands.  Our success is also dependent in part on the continued success, market recognition, and positive perception of these brands.. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect us and our hedges may fail to protect us from the losses that the hedges were designed to offset.. Subject to maintaining the Company's qualification as a REIT, we may elect to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap agreements. These agreements involve the risks that these arrangements may fail to protect or adversely affect us because, among other things:. •  interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;. •  available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;. •  the financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk;. •  the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability;. •  the credit quality of the hedging counterparty owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and. •  the hedging counterparty owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay.. As a result of any of the foregoing, our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may fail to protect us from the losses that the hedges were designed to offset and could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our investment opportunities and growth prospects may be affected by competition for acquisitions.. We compete for investment opportunities with other entities, some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. This competition may generally limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us, which may limit our ability to grow. This competition may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms, or at all.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, the Company's stockholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could harm our business and the value of the Company's shares.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting. Our internal controls and financial reporting are subject to attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for issuers that are \"large accelerated filers\" or \"accelerated filers\" under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. While we have undertaken substantial work to maintain effective internal controls, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining adequate internal controls over our financial reporting and financial processes in the future. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market value of the Company's shares. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner.. We and our hotel managers rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We and our hotel managers rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, reservations, billing and operating data. We and our hotel managers purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We and our hotel managers rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential operator and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. Although we and our hotel managers have taken steps we believe are necessary to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that the safety and security measures taken will not be able to prevent the systems' improper. 15. functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper functionality, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Lodging Industry. Our ability to comply with the terms of the indenture for the 7.25% Notes, our ability to make distributions to the Company's stockholders and the value of our hotels in general, may be adversely affected by factors in the lodging industry.. Operating Risks. Our hotel properties are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. •  competition from other hotel properties in our markets;. •  over-building of hotels in our markets, which adversely affects occupancy and revenues at our hotels;. •  dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism;. •  increases in energy costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists;. •  increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors, including increases in labor costs, that may not be offset by increased room rates;. •  changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing;. •  changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances;. •  adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions;. •  adverse effects of a downturn in the lodging industry; and. •  risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate, as we discuss in detail below.. These factors could reduce the net income of our TRS Lessees, which in turn could adversely affect the value of our hotels and our ability to comply with the terms of the indenture and to make distributions to the Company's stockholders.. Seasonality of the Hotel Business. The lodging industry is seasonal in nature, which can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. Our quarterly earnings may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors. As a result, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings in certain quarters in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues and to make distributions to the Company's stockholders.. Investment Concentration in Particular Segments of a Single Industry. Our entire business is lodging-related. Therefore, a downturn in the lodging industry, in general, and the full-service, upscale and upper-upscale segments in which we operate, in particular, will have a material adverse effect on the value of our hotels, our financial condition and the extent to which cash may be available for distribution to the Company's stockholders.. 16. Capital Expenditures. Our hotel properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The franchisors of our hotels also require us to make periodic capital improvements as a condition of keeping the franchise licenses. In addition, several of our mortgage lenders require that we set aside amounts for capital improvements to the secured properties on a monthly basis. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we spent approximately $23.2 million and approximately $14.9 million, respectively, on capital improvements to our hotels. Capital improvements and renovation projects may give rise to the following risks:. •  possible environmental problems;. •  construction cost overruns and delays;. •  a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms; and. •  uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun.. The costs of all these capital improvements as well as future capital improvements could adversely affect our financial condition and amounts available for distribution to the Company's stockholders.. Operating our hotels under franchise agreements could increase our operating costs and lower our net income.. Most of our hotels operate under franchise agreements which subject us to risks in the event of negative publicity related to one of our franchisors.. The maintenance of the franchise licenses for our hotels is subject to our franchisors' operating standards and other terms and conditions. Our franchisors periodically inspect our hotels to ensure that we, our TRS Lessees, and the management companies follow their standards. Failure by us, our TRS Lessees or a management company to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled. If a franchise license terminates due to our failure to make required improvements or to otherwise comply with its terms, we may also be liable to the franchisor for a termination payment, which varies by franchisor and by hotel. As a condition of continuing a franchise license, a franchisor may require us to make capital expenditures, even if we do not believe the capital improvements are necessary or desirable or will result in an acceptable return on our investment. Nonetheless, we may risk losing a franchise license if we do not make franchisor-required capital expenditures.. If a franchisor terminates the franchise license, we may try either to obtain a suitable replacement franchise license or to operate the hotel without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could significantly decrease the revenues at the hotel and reduce the underlying value of the hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. A loss of a franchise license for one or more hotels could materially and adversely affect our revenues. This loss of revenues could, therefore, also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to comply with the terms of the indenture for the 7.25% Notes and reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders.. Restrictive covenants in certain of our franchise agreements contain provisions that may operate to limit our ability to sell or refinance our hotels, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Franchise agreements typically contain covenants that may affect our ability to sell or refinance a hotel, including requirements to obtain the consent of the franchisor in the event of such a sale or refinancing transaction. In the event that a franchisor's consent is not forthcoming, the terms of a sale or refinancing may be less favorable to us than would otherwise be the case. Some of our franchise agreements provide the franchisor with a right of first offer in the event of certain sales or transfers of a hotel and provide that the franchisor has the right to approve any change in the hotel management company engaged to manage the hotel. Generally, we may be limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the franchisor and the transferee agrees to assume the related franchise agreements. If the franchisor does not consent to the sale or financing of our hotels, we may be unable to consummate transactions that are in our best interests or the terms of those transactions may be less favorable to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the execution of our strategies.. 17. Hotel re-development is subject to timing, budgeting and other risks that would increase our operating costs and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders.. We intend to acquire hotel properties from time to time as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration general economic conditions, and seek to re-develop or reposition these hotels. Redevelopment of hotel properties involves a number of risks, including risks associated with:. •  construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs;. •  receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;. •  development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion;. •  acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project;. •  financing; and. •  governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project.. We cannot assure you that any re-development project will be completed on time or within budget. Our inability to complete a project on time or within budget would increase our operating costs and reduce our net income.. The hotel business is capital intensive and our inability to obtain financing could limit our growth.. Our hotel properties will require periodic capital expenditures and renovation to remain competitive. Acquisitions or development of additional hotel properties will require significant capital expenditures. In addition, several of our mortgage lenders require that we set aside annual amounts for capital improvements to the secured property. We may not be able to fund capital improvements or acquisitions solely from cash provided from our operating activities because we must distribute at least 90.0% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, each year to maintain our REIT tax status. As a result, our ability to fund significant capital expenditures, acquisitions or hotel development through retained earnings is very limited. Consequently, we rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund any significant investments or capital improvements. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or development of hotels will be limited if we cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing which will depend on market conditions. Neither our charter nor our bylaws limit the amount of debt that we can incur. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing or that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms.. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to make distributions to the Company's stockholders.. We maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our hotel properties, including liability, fire and extended coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by hotel owners. There are no assurances that current coverage will continue to be available at reasonable rates. Various types of catastrophic losses, like hurricanes, earthquakes and floods, such as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in August and September 2017, respectively, Hurricane Matthew in October 2016 and Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, losses from foreign terrorist activities, such as those on September 11, 2001, losses from power outages or losses from domestic terrorist activities, such as the Oklahoma City bombing on April 19, 1995, may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. Currently, our insurers provide terrorism coverage in conjunction with the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program sponsored by the federal government through which insurers are able to receive compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism.. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed property.. 18. Noncompliance with governmental regulations could adversely affect our operating results.. Environmental Matters. Our hotels may be subject to environmental liabilities. An owner of real property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of:. •  our knowledge of the contamination;. •  the timing of the contamination;. •  the cause of the contamination; or. •  the party responsible for the contamination of the property.. There may be unknown environmental problems associated with our properties. If environmental contamination exists on our properties, we could become subject to strict, joint and several liability for the contamination by virtue of our ownership interest.. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to comply with our covenants and to pay distributions to stockholders.. Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Changes in Governmental Rules and Regulations. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA's requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damages. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to comply with the terms of the indenture for the 7.25% Notes and to make distributions to the Company's stockholders could be adversely affected.. Our hotels may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities which could cause us to incur substantial costs.. The hotel properties that we acquire may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include:. •  liabilities for environmental conditions;. •  losses in excess of our insured coverage;. •  accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business;. •  tax, legal and regulatory liabilities;. •  claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the Company's predecessors prior to our formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the Company's formation or acquisition transactions; and. •  claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties.. In general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements related to the sales of the hotel properties may not survive the closing of the transactions. While we will likely seek to require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification may be limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with these hotels may exceed our expectations, and we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to the Company's stockholders.. 19. Future terrorist activities may adversely affect, and create uncertainty in, our business.. Terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could have an adverse effect on our business, although the degree of impact will depend on a number of factors, including the U.S. and global economies and global financial markets. Previous terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorism alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries in the past. Such attacks, or the threat of such attacks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition, as a whole.. We face risks related to pandemic diseases, which could materially and adversely affect travel and result in reduced demand for our hotels.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effect of a pandemic disease on the travel industry. For example, the outbreaks of SARS and avian flu in 2003 had a severe impact on the travel industry, the outbreaks of H1N1 flu in 2009 threatened to have a similar impact, and the perceived threat of a Zika virus outbreak in 2016 had an impact on the south Florida market. A prolonged recurrence of SARS, avian flu, H1N1 flu, Ebola virus, Zika virus or another pandemic disease also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for our hotels and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.. General Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more hotel properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited.. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including:. •  adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions;. •  changes in interest rates and in the cost and terms of debt financing;. •  absence of liquidity in credit markets which limits the availability and amount of debt financing;. •  changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances;. •  the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures;. •  changes in operating expenses; and. •  civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters such as Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in August and September of 2017, Hurricane Matthew in October 2016 and Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist acts, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001.. We may decide to sell our hotels in the future. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotel property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a hotel property.. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a hotel property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to comply with the terms of the indenture and to pay distributions to stockholders.. Future acquisitions may not yield the returns expected, may result in disruptions to our business, may strain management resources and may result in stockholder dilution.. Our business strategy may not ultimately be successful and may not provide positive returns on our investments. Acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management's attention away from day-to-day operations. The issuance of equity securities in connection with any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to the Company's stockholders.. 20. Our hotels may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property, which would reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our guests, employees or the management company and others if property damage or health concerns arise and could harm our reputation.. Increases in property taxes would increase our operating costs, reduce our income and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to the Company's stockholders.. Each of our hotel properties is subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase, our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to the Company's stockholders could be materially and adversely affected and the market price of the Company's shares could decline.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Our ability to effect a merger or other business combination transaction may be restricted by our Operating Partnership agreement.. In the event of a change of control of the Company, the limited partners of our Operating Partnership will have the right, for a period of 30 days following the change of control event, to cause the Operating Partnership to redeem all of the units held by the limited partners for a cash amount equal to the cash redemption amount otherwise payable upon redemption pursuant to the partnership agreement. This cash redemption right may make it more unlikely or difficult for a third party to propose or consummate a change of control transaction, even if such transaction were in the best interests of the Company's stockholders.. Provisions of the Company's charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company.. Aggregate Share and Common Share Ownership Limits. The Company's charter provides that no person may directly or indirectly own more than 9.9% of the value of the Company's outstanding shares of capital stock or more than 9.9% of the number of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock. These ownership limitations may prevent an acquisition of control of the Company by a third party without the Company's board of directors' approval, even if the Company's stockholders believe the change of control is in their interest. The Company's board of directors has discretion to waive that ownership limit if, including other considerations, the board receives evidence that ownership in excess of the limit will not jeopardize the Company's REIT status.. Authority to Issue Stock. The Company's amended and restated charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 49,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 11,000,000 shares of preferred stock, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Issuances of additional shares of stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of the Company's stock, even if stockholders believe that a change of control is in their interest. The Company will be able to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock without stockholder approval, unless stockholder approval is required by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Company's securities may be listed or traded.. Provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company.. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of the Company's common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including:. •  \"business combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10.0% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested. 21. stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and. •  \"control share\" provisions that provide that \"control shares\" of the Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the Company's stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. The Company has opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of the Company's board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in the Company's bylaws. However, the Company's board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and the Company may, by amendment to its bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. The Company's board of directors has the exclusive power to amend the Company's bylaws.. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits the Company's board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in the Company's charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) the Company does not currently have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for the Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of the Company's common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price.. Provisions in the Company's executive officers' employment agreements may make a change of control of the Company more costly or difficult.. The Company's employment agreements with Andrew M. Sims, its chief executive officer, David R. Folsom, its president and chief operating officer, and Anthony E. Domalski, its secretary and chief financial officer, contain provisions providing for substantial payments to these officers in the event of a change of control of the Company. Specifically, if the Company terminates these executive's employment without cause or the executive resigns with good reason, which includes a failure to nominate Andrew M. Sims to the Company's board of directors or his involuntary removal from the Company's board of directors, unless for cause or by vote of the stockholders, or if there is a change of control, each of these executives is entitled to the following:. •  any accrued but unpaid salary and bonuses;. •  vesting of any previously issued stock options and restricted stock;. •  payment of the executive's life, health and disability insurance coverage for a period of five years following termination;. •  any unreimbursed expenses; and. •  a severance payment equal to three times for Andrew M. Sims', David R. Folsom's and Anthony E. Domalski's respective combined salary and actual bonus compensation for the preceding fiscal year.. In addition, these executives will receive additional payments to compensate them for the additional taxes, if any, imposed on them under Section 4999 of the Code by reason of receipt of excess parachute payments. We will not be able to deduct any of the above amounts paid to the executives for tax purposes.. These provisions may make a change of control of the Company, even if it is in the best interests of the Company's stockholders, more costly and difficult and may reduce the amounts the Company's stockholders would receive in a change of control transaction.. Our ownership limitations may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of the Company's common stock or preferred stock.. In order to maintain the Company's REIT qualification, it cannot be closely held (i.e., more than 50.0% in value of our outstanding stock cannot be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any taxable year).  To preserve the Company's REIT qualification, the Company's charter contains a 9.9% aggregate share ownership limit and a 9.9% common share ownership limit. Generally, any shares of the Company's stock owned by affiliated persons will be added together for purposes of the aggregate share ownership limit, and any shares of common stock owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the common share ownership limit.. If anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate the aggregate share ownership limit or the common share ownership limit, or prevent the Company from continuing to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, those shares instead will be. 22. transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the aggregate share ownership limit or the common share ownership limit. If this transfer to a trust fails to prevent such a violation or fails to preserve the Company's continued qualification as a REIT, then the Company will consider the initial intended transfer to be null and void from the outset. The intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of the aggregate share ownership limit, the common share ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer in the Company's charter bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of the Company's stock falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale.. The Company's articles supplementary establishing and fixing the rights and preferences of each of our 8.0% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (the \"Series B Preferred Stock\") and 7.875% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (the \"Series C Preferred Stock\") provide that no person may directly or indirectly own more than 9.9% of the aggregate number of outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock, respectively, excluding any outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock not treated as outstanding for federal income tax purposes.  The Company's board of directors has discretion to waive that ownership limit if, including other considerations, the board receives evidence that ownership in excess of the limit will not jeopardize the Company's REIT status.. Holders of our outstanding preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of our common shares.. Our board of directors has the authority to designate and issue preferred shares with liquidation, dividend and other rights that are senior to those of our common shares.  As of December 31, 2017, 1,610,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding, and 1,300,000 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding.  The aggregate liquidation preference with respect to the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock is approximately $40.3 million, and annual dividends on our outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock are approximately $3.2 million.  The aggregate liquidation preference with respect to the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock is approximately $32.5 million, and annual dividends on our outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock are approximately $2.6 million.  Holders of both our Series B and Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common shares.  Upon our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any payment is made to holders of our common shares, holders of these preferred shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25.00 per share plus any accrued and unpaid distributions.  This will reduce the remaining amount of our assets, if any, available to distribute to holders of our common shares.  In addition, holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock voting together as a separate class have the right to elect two additional directors to our board of directors whenever dividends on the preferred shares are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends (whether or not consecutive).  Because our decision to issue securities will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future preferred offerings.  Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities issuances reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their interest.. The change of control conversion and redemption features of the Series B and Series C Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for a party to take over our Company or discourage a party from taking over our Company.. Upon a change of control (as defined in our charter), holders of both our Series B and Series C Preferred Stock will have the right (unless, as provided in our charter, we have provided or provide notice of our election to exercise our special optional redemption right before the relevant date) to convert some or all of their shares of preferred stock into shares of our common stock (or equivalent value of alternative consideration). Upon such a conversion, holders will be limited to a maximum number of shares equal to the share cap, subject to adjustments. If the common stock price is less than $3.015, subject to adjustment, holders will receive a maximum of 8.29187 shares of our common stock per share of Series B Preferred Stock, which may result in a holder receiving value that is less than the liquidation preference of the Series B Preferred Stock.  If the common stock price is less than $2.94, subject to adjustment, holders will receive a maximum of 8.50340 shares of our common stock per share of Series C Preferred Stock, which may result in a holder receiving value that is less than the liquidation preference of the Series C Preferred Stock. In addition, those features of our Series B and Series C Preferred Stock may have the effect of inhibiting or discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock and shares of our Series B and Series C Preferred Stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price or that stockholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests.. 23. Our organizational documents have no limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. As a result, we may become highly leveraged in the future, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Our business strategy contemplates the use of both secured and unsecured debt to finance long-term growth. In addition, our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt that we may incur, and the Company's board of directors may change our financing policy at any time. As a result, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, in the future. Incurring debt could subject us to many risks, including the risks that:. •  our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest;. •  our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing cash available for funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes; and. •  the terms of any refinancing may not be in the same amount or on terms as favorable as the terms of the existing debt being refinanced.. The board of directors' revocation of the Company's REIT status without stockholder approval may decrease the Company's stockholders' total return.. The Company's charter provides that the Company's board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate the Company's REIT election, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, if the Company's board of directors determines that it is no longer in the Company's best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If the Company ceases to be a REIT, it would become subject to federal income tax on its taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of its taxable income to the Company's stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to the Company's stockholders.. The ability of the Company's board of directors to change the Company's major corporate policies may not be in your best interest.. The Company's board of directors determines the Company's major corporate policies, including its acquisition, financing, growth, operations and distribution policies. The Company's board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without the vote or consent of the Company's stockholders.. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed.. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our chairman and chief executive officer, Andrew M. Sims; our president and chief operating officer, David R. Folsom; and our chief financial officer, Anthony E. Domalski, to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. The loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Risks Related to Our Debt. We have substantial financial leverage.. As of December 31, 2017, the principal balance of our secured debt was approximately $299.1 million, not accounting for reductions of unamortized premiums or deferred financing costs as shown on our balance sheet.  Historically, we have incurred debt for acquisitions and to fund our renovation, redevelopment and rebranding programs. Limitations upon our access to additional debt could adversely affect our ability to fund these programs or acquire hotels in the future.. Our financial leverage could negatively affect our business and financial results, including the following:. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, paying dividends or other purposes;. •  limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, renovation, redevelopment and rebranding plans, acquisitions, debt service requirements and other purposes;. •  adversely affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations, including those related to the 7.25% Notes;. •  limit our ability to refinance existing debt;. •  require us to agree to additional restrictions and limitations on our business operations and capital structure to obtain financing;. 24. •  force us to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on unfavorable terms;. •  increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, and to interest rate fluctuations;. •  force us to issue additional equity, possibly on terms unfavorable to existing shareholders;. •  limit our flexibility to make, or react to, changes in our business and our industry; and. •  place us at a competitive disadvantage, compared to our competitors that have less debt.. We must comply with financial covenants in our mortgage loan agreements and in the indenture for the 7.25% Notes.. Our mortgage loan agreements and indenture for the 7.25% Notes contain various financial covenants. Failure to comply with these financial covenants could result from, among other things, changes in the local competitive environment, general economic conditions and disruption caused by renovation activity or major weather disturbances.. If we violate the financial covenants contained in our mortgage loan agreements, we may attempt to negotiate waivers of the violations or amend the terms of the applicable mortgage loan agreement with the lender; however, we can make no assurance that we would be successful in any such negotiation or that, if successful in obtaining waivers or amendments, such waivers or amendments would be on attractive terms. Some mortgage loan agreements provide alternate cure provisions which may allow us to otherwise comply with the financial covenants by obtaining an appraisal of the hotel, prepaying a portion of the outstanding indebtedness or by providing cash collateral until such time as the financial covenants are met by the collateralized property without consideration of the cash collateral. Alternate cure provisions which include prepaying a portion of the outstanding indebtedness or providing cash collateral may have a material impact on our liquidity.. If we violate the financial covenants in the indenture for the 7.25% Notes, we may attempt to cure that violation by engaging in one or more transactions pursuant to the cure provision in that indenture.. If we are unable to negotiate a waiver or amendment or satisfy alternate cure provisions, if any, or unable to meet any alternate cure requirements and a default were to occur, we would possibly have to refinance the debt through debt financing, private or public offerings of debt securities, additional equity financing, or by disposing of an asset. We are uncertain whether we will be able to refinance these obligations or if refinancing terms will be favorable.. We have mortgage debt obligations maturing in 2018 and 2019, and if we are not successful in extending the terms of this indebtedness or in refinancing this debt on acceptable economic terms or at all, our overall financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We will be required to seek additional capital in the near future to refinance or replace existing long-term mortgage debt that is maturing. The ability to refinance or replace mortgage debt is subject to market conditions, and could become limited in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future financings on acceptable terms, if at all. In August 2018, the mortgage on our DoubleTree by Hilton Raleigh Brownstone University matures and in April and June of 2019, respectively, the mortgages on DoubleTree by Hilton Philadelphia Airport and Crowne Plaza Tampa Westshore mature. We also have additional significant obligations maturing in subsequent years. The total aggregate amount of our debt obligations scheduled to mature in 2018 and 2019, inclusive of monthly amortization of all our indebtedness, is approximately $74.1 million, which represents approximately 24.8% of our total debt obligation outstanding as of December 31, 2017.. We will need to, and plan to, renew, replace or extend our long-term indebtedness prior to the respective maturity date. If we are unable to extend these loans, we may be required to repay the outstanding principal amount at maturity or a portion of such indebtedness upon refinance. If we do not have sufficient funds to repay any portion of the indebtedness, it may be necessary to raise capital through debt financing, private or public offerings of debt securities or equity financings. We are uncertain whether we will be able to refinance these obligations or if refinancing terms will be favorable. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancing, increases in interest expense would lower our cash flow, and, consequently, cash available to meet our financial obligations. If we are unable to obtain alternative or additional financing arrangements in the future, or if we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategies or we may be forced to dispose of hotel properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses and potentially reducing cash flow from operating activities if the sale proceeds in excess of the amount required to satisfy the indebtedness could not be reinvested in equally profitable real property investments. Moreover, the terms of any additional financing may restrict our financial flexibility, including the debt we may incur in the future, or may restrict our ability to manage our business as we had intended. To the extent we cannot repay our outstanding debt, we risk losing some or all of our hotel properties to foreclosure and we could be required to invoke insolvency proceedings including, but not limited to, commencing a voluntary case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our hotels would be treated as a sale of the hotel for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our. 25. tax basis in the hotel, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds, which could hinder Sotherly's ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). In addition, we may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt on behalf of the entities that own our hotels. When we give a guarantee on behalf of an entity that owns one of our hotels, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity.. Our borrowing costs are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates.. Higher interest rates could increase our debt service requirements and interest expense. Currently, our floating rate debt is limited to the mortgages on the DoubleTree by Hilton Philadelphia Airport, the Crowne Plaza Tampa Westshore, The Whitehall and the Hyatt Centric Arlington. Each of these mortgages bears interest at rates tied to the 1-month or 3-month London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") and provide for minimum rates of interest. To the extent that increases in the LIBOR rate of interest cause the interest on the mortgages to exceed the minimum rates of interest, we are exposed to rising interest rates.. Should we obtain new debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness, we may increase the amount of floating rate debt that currently exists. In addition, adverse economic conditions could also cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable.. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest of Our Officers and Directors. Conflicts of interest could result in our executive officers and certain of our directors acting in a manner other than in the Company's stockholders' best interest.. Conflicts of interest relating to Chesapeake Hospitality, the entity that manages all but one of our hotels, and the terms of its management agreements with Chesapeake Hospitality may lead to management decisions that are not in the stockholders' best interest.. Conflicts of interest relating to Chesapeake Hospitality may lead to management decisions that are not in the stockholders' best interest. Andrew M. Sims, our chairman and chief executive officer, and Kim E. Sims, a former member of our board of directors, together own a substantial interest in Chesapeake Hospitality which manages all but one of our hotels.. Our management agreements with Chesapeake Hospitality establish the terms of Chesapeake Hospitality's management of our hotels covered by those agreements. The Master Agreement provides that in the event the agreement is terminated in connection with the sale of a hotel, and Chesapeake Hospitality accepts an offer to manage another hotel which is reasonable comparable to the hotel that was sold, we will not be liable for any termination fee. If we do not offer Chesapeake Hospitality such opportunity or Chesapeake Hospitality declines such opportunity, then a termination fee equivalent to the lesser of the management fees paid for the prior twelve-month period or the management fees for the period prior to the sale that is equal to the number of months remaining under the term of the agreement will be due. If we terminate the agreement at the end of any renewable five-year term, Chesapeake Hospitality is due a termination fee equivalent to one month's management fees, as determined under the agreement.. As a significant owner of Chesapeake Hospitality, which would receive any management and management termination fees payable by us under the management agreement, Andrew M. Sims may influence our decisions to sell a hotel or acquire or develop a hotel when it is not in the best interests of the Company's stockholders to do so. In addition, Andrew M. Sims will have conflicts of interest with respect to decisions to enforce provisions of the management agreement, including any termination thereof.. There can be no assurance that provisions in our bylaws will always be successful in mitigating conflicts of interest.. Under our bylaws, a committee consisting of only independent directors must approve any transaction between us and Chesapeake Hospitality or its affiliates or any interested director. However, there can be no assurance that these policies always will be successful in mitigating such conflicts, and decisions could be made that might not fully reflect the interests of all of the Company's stockholders.. Certain of our officers and directors control trusts that hold units in our Operating Partnership and may seek to avoid adverse tax consequences, which could result from transactions that would otherwise benefit the Company's stockholders.. Holders of units in our Operating Partnership, including trusts controlled in whole or part by members of our management team, may suffer adverse tax consequences upon our sale or refinancing of certain properties. Therefore, holders of units, including a trust controlled by Andrew M. Sims and two former members of our board of directors, and a charitable trust controlled by Edward S. Stein, may have different objectives than holders of the Company's stock regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of a property's sale, or the timing and amount of a property's refinancing. As of December 31, 2017, these trusts owned approximately 1.0% of the outstanding units in our Operating Partnership. Although the individuals controlling the trusts do not have any beneficial interest in the trusts, they may influence us not to sell or refinance certain properties, even if such sale or refinancing might be financially. 26. advantageous to the Company's stockholders, or may influence us to enter into tax-deferred exchanges with the proceeds of such sales when such a reinvestment might not otherwise be in our best interest.. Our agreements with Chesapeake Hospitality and its affiliates, including the contribution agreements and the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership, were not negotiated on an arms' length basis and may be less favorable to us than we could have obtained from third parties.. In connection with the Company's initial public offering, we entered into various agreements with Chesapeake Hospitality and its affiliates, including contribution agreements, a master management agreement, a strategic alliance agreement, subleases, the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership and employment agreements  -  of which only the contribution agreements and the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership have not expired. In addition, we entered into various separate management agreements with Chesapeake Hospitality which have all been superseded by the Master Agreement and new individual hotel agreements executed in December 2014. The terms of all of these agreements were determined by our management team, who had conflicts of interest as described above and ownership interests in Chesapeake Hospitality and its affiliates. The terms of all of these agreements may be less favorable to us than we could have obtained from third parties.. Federal Income Tax Risks Related to the Company's Status as a REIT. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex.. The Company intends to operate in a manner that will maintain its qualification as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, however, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. The Company has not requested or obtained a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, that it qualifies as a REIT. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the Company will be successful in operating in a manner that will permit it to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of the Company's qualification as a REIT. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. The Company and its stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. We are not aware, however, of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect the Company's ability to qualify as a REIT.. Failure to make distributions could subject the Company to tax.. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, each year the Company must pay out to its stockholders in distributions, as \"qualifying distributions,\" at least 90.0% of its REIT taxable income, computed without regard to the deductions for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains and reduced by certain non-cash items. To the extent that the Company satisfies this distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100.0% of its taxable income (including its net capital gain), it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income. In addition, the Company will be subject to a 4.0% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that it pays out to its stockholders as a \"qualifying distribution\" for a calendar year is less than the sum of: (A) 85.0% of our ordinary income for such calendar year, plus (B) 95.0% of our capital gain net income for such calendar year. The Company's only recurring source of funds to make these distributions comes from rent received from its TRS Lessees whose only recurring source of funds with which to make these payments and distributions is the net cash flow (after payment of operating and other costs and expenses and management fees) from hotel operations, and any dividend and other distributions that we may receive from MHI Holding. Accordingly, the Company may be required to borrow money or sell assets to make distributions sufficient to enable it to pay out enough of its taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4.0% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year.. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject the Company to federal income tax.. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be required to pay federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. The resulting tax liability might cause the Company to borrow funds, liquidate some of its investments or take other steps that could negatively affect its operating results in order to pay any such tax. Unless it is entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the Company would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost its qualification. If the Company lost its REIT status, its net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, the Company would no longer be required to make distributions to its stockholders, and it would not be able to deduct any stockholder distributions in computing its taxable income. This would substantially reduce the Company's earnings, cash available to pay distributions, and the value of common stock.. 27. Failure to qualify as a REIT may cause the Company to reduce or eliminate distributions to its stockholders, and the Company may face increased difficulty in raising capital or obtaining financing.. If the Company fails to remain qualified as a REIT, it may have to reduce or eliminate any distributions to its stockholders in order to satisfy its income tax liabilities. Any distributions that the Company does make to its stockholders would be treated as taxable dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. This may result in negative investor and market perception regarding the market value of the Company's stock, and the value of its stock may be reduced. In addition, the Company and the Operating Partnership may face increased difficulty in raising capital or obtaining financing if the Company fails to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT because of the resulting tax liability and potential reduction of its market valuation.. If MHI Holding exceeds certain value thresholds, this could cause the Company to fail to qualify as a REIT.. For taxable years of the Company ending on or before December 31, 2017, at the end of each quarter of each taxable year of the Company, no more than 25.0% of the value of the Company's total assets may consist of securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (\"TRSs\").  For taxable years of the Company ending after December 31, 2017, at the end of each quarter of each taxable year of the Company, no more than 20.0% of the value of the Company's total assets may consist of securities of one or more TRSs.  MHI Holding is a TRS and the Company may form other TRSs in the future.  The Company plans to monitor the value of its shares of MHI Holding and of any other TRS the Company may form.   However, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not attempt to attribute additional value to the shares of MHI Holding or to the shares of any other TRS that the Company may form.  If the Company is treated as owning securities of one or more TRSs with an aggregate value that is in excess of the thresholds outlined above, the Company could lose its status as a REIT or become subject to penalties.. Even if the Company remains qualified as a REIT, it may face other tax liabilities that reduce its cash flow.. Even if the Company remains qualified for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets. For example:. •  it will be required to pay tax on undistributed REIT taxable income (including net capital gain);. •  if it has net income from the disposition of foreclosure property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, it must pay tax on that income at the highest corporate rate;. •  if it (or the Operating Partnership or any subsidiary of the Operating Partnership other than MHI Holding) sells a property in a \"prohibited transaction,\" its gain, or its share of such gain, from the sale would be subject to a 100.0% penalty tax. A \"prohibited transaction\" would be a sale of property, other than a foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business;. •  MHI Holding is a fully taxable corporation and is required to pay federal and state taxes on its taxable income; and. •  it may experience increases in its state and/or local income tax burdens as states and localities continue to look to modify their tax laws in order to raise revenues, including by (among other things) changing from a net taxable income-based regime to a gross receipts-based regime, suspending and/or limiting the use of net operating losses, increasing tax rates and fees, imposing surcharges and subjecting partnerships to an entity-level tax, and limiting or disallowing certain U.S. federal deductions such as the dividends-paid deduction.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause the Company to forgo attractive opportunities that could otherwise generate strong risk-adjusted returns and instead pursue less attractive opportunities, or none at all.. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the amounts it distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its stock.. In general, when applying these tests, the Company is treated as owning its proportionate share of the Operating Partnership's assets (which share is determined in accordance with the Company's capital interest in the Operating Partnership) and as being entitled to the Operating Partnership's income attributable to such share. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of generating strong risk-adjusted returns on invested capital for our stockholders.. 28. Complying with REIT requirements may force the Company to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could result in an overall loss on its investments.. To maintain qualification as a REIT, the Company must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75.0% of the value of its assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of the Company's assets (other than securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries) generally cannot include more than 10.0% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10.0% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5.0% of the value of the Company's assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25.0% (20.0% for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of the Company's total assets can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries.. When applying these asset tests, the Company is treated as owning its proportionate share of the Operating Partnership's assets (which is determined in accordance with the Company's capital interest in the Operating Partnership). If the Company fails to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, it must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing its REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. If the Company fails to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, and the failure exceeds a de-minimis threshold, the Company may be able to preserve its REIT status if the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. In this case, we will be required to dispose of the assets causing the failure within six months after the last day of the quarter in which the failure occurred, and we will be required to pay an additional tax of the greater of $50,000 or the product of the highest applicable tax rate multiplied by the net income generated on those assets.. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. If the Operating Partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the Company could cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences.. We believe that the Operating Partnership will continue to qualify to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including the Company, will be required to pay tax on its allocable share of the Operating Partnership's income. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not challenge the Operating Partnership's status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, the Company could fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause the Operating Partnership to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including the Company.. The Company's failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences to its stockholders.. The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code, commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 2004. The Company believes it has operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code and believes that its current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Code to enable the Company to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, it is possible that the Company has been organized or has operated in a manner that would not allow it to qualify as a REIT, or that its future operations could cause it to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires the Company to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within its control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, the Company must satisfy a 75.0% gross income test pursuant to Code Section 856(c)(3) and a 95.0% gross income test pursuant to Code Section 856(c)(2) each taxable year. In addition, the Company must pay dividends, as \"qualifying distributions,\" to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90.0% of its REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding capital gains, and reduced by certain non-cash items) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. While historically the Company has satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making cash distributions to its stockholders, the Company may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its stock. The provisions of the Code and applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a REIT are more complicated in the Company's case because its holds its assets through the Operating Partnership.. 29. If MHI Holding does not qualify as a taxable REIT subsidiary, or if the Company's hotel manager does not qualify as an \"eligible independent contractor,\" the Company would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to its shareholders.. Rent paid by a lessee that is a \"related party tenant\" of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. The Company currently leases substantially all of its hotels to the TRS Lessees, which are disregarded entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are wholly-owned by MHI Holding, a taxable REIT subsidiary, and expects to continue to do so. So long as MHI Holding qualifies as a taxable REIT subsidiary, it will not be treated as a \"related party tenant\" with respect to the Company's properties that are managed by an independent hotel management company that qualifies as an \"eligible independent contractor.\" The Company believes that MHI Holding will continue to qualify to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary for federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this status or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in such challenge, it is possible that the Company would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of its income would fail to be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests. If the Company failed to meet any of the asset or gross income tests, it would likely lose its REIT qualification for federal income tax purposes.. Additionally, if the Company's hotel manager does not qualify as an \"eligible independent contractor,\" the Company would fail to qualify as a REIT. Each hotel manager that enters into a management contract with the TRS Lessees must qualify as an \"eligible independent contractor\" under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid by the TRS Lessees to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor, a hotel manager must not own, directly or through its shareholders, more than 35.0% of the Company's outstanding shares, taking into account certain ownership attribution rules. The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of these 35.0% thresholds are complex. Although the Company intends to monitor ownership of its shares by its hotel manager and its owners, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded.. Foreign investors may be subject to U.S. tax on the disposition of the Company's stock if the Company does not qualify as a \"domestically controlled\" REIT.. A foreign person disposing of a \"U.S. real property interest,\" which includes stock of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (\"FIRPTA\") on the gain recognized on the disposition, unless such foreign person is a \"qualified foreign pension fund\" or one of the certain publicly traded non-U.S. \"qualified collective investment vehicles\". Additionally, the transferee will be required to withhold 15.0% on the amount realized on the disposition if the foreign transferor is subject to U.S. federal income tax under FIRPTA. This 15.0% is creditable against the U.S. federal income tax liability of the foreign transferor in connection with such transferor's disposition of the Company's stock. FIRPTA does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is \"domestically controlled\" (i.e., less than 50.0% of the REIT's capital stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT's existence). We cannot be sure that the Company will qualify as a \"domestically controlled\" REIT. If the Company does not so qualify, gain realized by foreign investors on a sale of the Company's stock would be subject to U.S. income and withholding tax under FIRPTA, unless the Company's stock were traded on an established securities market and a foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 10.0% of the value of the Company's outstanding stock.. MHI Holding increases our overall tax liability.. Our TRS Lessees are single-member limited liability companies that are wholly-owned, directly or indirectly, by MHI Holding, a taxable REIT subsidiary that is wholly-owned by the Operating Partnership. Each of our TRS Lessees is disregarded as an entity separate from MHI Holding for U.S. federal income tax purposes, such that the assets, liabilities, income, gains, losses, credits and deductions of our TRS Lessees are treated as the assets, liabilities, income, gains, losses, credits and deductions of MHI Holding for U.S. federal income tax purposes. MHI Holding is subject to federal and state income tax on its taxable income, which will consist of the revenues from the hotels leased by the Company's TRS Lessees, net of the operating expenses for such hotels and rent payments. Accordingly, although the Company's ownership of MHI Holding and the TRS Lessees will allow it to participate in the operating income from its hotels in addition to receiving rent, that operating income will be fully subject to income tax. The after-tax net income of MHI Holding, if any, will be available for distribution to the Company.. The Company will incur a 100.0% excise tax on its transactions with MHI Holding and the TRS Lessees that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis. For example, to the extent that the rent paid by the TRS Lessees exceeds an arm's-length rental amount, such amount potentially will be subject to this excise tax. The Company intends that all transactions among itself, MHI Holding and the TRS Lessees will be conducted on an arm's-length basis and, therefore, that the rent paid by the TRS Lessees will not be subject to this excise tax.. 30. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited or restricted or may not exist at all, and if we do not sustain our profitability, we may be required to put up a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.. At December 31, 2017, our financial statements reflected deferred tax assets totaling approximately $5.5 million, of which approximately $4.9 million relates to significant federal and state net operating losses (\"NOLs\") generated by our TRS Lessee over the past three years.  We are generally able to carry NOLs forward to reduce taxable income in future years.  Our ability to use our NOLs to reduce future tax payments is dependent upon our ability to sustain profitability during the time period over which these NOLs may be used under applicable tax law.  Moreover, changes to NOL rules made for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 under recently enacted tax legislation (discussed further below under the caption \"Risk Factors - U.S. tax reform and related regulatory action could adversely affect you\"), will also limit the use of existing NOLs to 80% of a corporation's taxable income for a taxable year.  This, along with the reduced corporate income tax rate, may decrease the value of the TRS Lessee's NOLs.  NOLs generated in 2018 and beyond cannot be carried back and may only be used in subsequent taxable years. A valuation allowance is required for deferred tax assets if, based on all available evidence, it is \"more-likely-than-not\" (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized due to the inability to generate sufficient taxable income in certain financial statement periods.  The net amount of deferred tax assets that are recorded on the financial statements must reflect the tax benefits that are expected to be realized using these criteria.  We perform this analysis by evaluating a number of factors, including a demonstrated track record of past profitability, reasonable forecasts of future taxable income, and anticipated changes in the lease rental payments from the TRS Lessee to subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership.  At December 31, 2017, we determined based on all available positive and negative evidence that it is more-likely-than-not that future taxable income will be available during the carryforward periods to absorb all of the consolidated federal and state net operating loss carryforward.  We made this determination considering reasonable tax strategies available to us capable of ensuring the realization of our deferred tax assets, anticipated changes in the lease rental payments and one-time losses that generated some of our net operating losses.  However, there is no assurance that the TRS Lessee will be able to achieve profitability. The TRS Lessee's ability to generate sustained profitability in the amounts necessary to realize our deferred tax assets against future taxable income depends upon general economic and market conditions, interest rates, and the TRS Lessee's ability to meet our strategic plans.  If the TRS Lessee is unable to generate adequate sustained profitability, we may be required to record a valuation allowance against some or all of our deferred tax assets, which would negatively impact our financial results.. Taxation of dividend income could make the Company's stock less attractive to investors and reduce the market price of its stock.. The federal income tax laws governing REITs, or the administrative interpretations of those laws, may be amended at any time. Any new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect the Company or could adversely affect its stockholders. Currently, \"qualified dividends,\" which include dividends from domestic C corporations that are paid to non-corporate stockholders, are subject to a reduced maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 20.0%, plus a 3.8% Medicare tax discussed below. Because REITs generally do not pay corporate-level taxes as a result of the dividends-paid deduction to which they are entitled, dividends from REITs generally are not treated as qualified dividends and thus do not qualify for a reduced tax rate. Non-corporate investors could view an investment in non-REIT corporations as more attractive than an investment in REITs because the dividends they would receive from non-REIT corporations would be subject to lower tax rates.. Investors may be subject to a 3.8% Medicare tax in connection with an investment in the Company's stock.. The U.S. tax laws impose a 3.8% \"Medicare tax\" on the \"net investment income\" (i.e., interest, dividends, capital gains, annuities, and rents that are not derived in the ordinary course of a trade or business) of individuals with income exceeding $200,000 ($250,000 if married filing jointly or $125,000 if married filing separately), and of estates and trusts. Dividends on the Company's stock as well as gains from the disposition of the Company's stock or may be subject to the Medicare tax. Prospective investors should consult with their independent advisors as to the applicability of the Medicare tax to an investment in the Company's stock in light of such investors' particular circumstances.. 31. Investors may be subject to U.S. withholding tax under the \"Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.\". On March 18, 2010, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, or the HIRE Act, was enacted in the United States. The HIRE Act includes provisions known as the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or FATCA, that generally impose a 30.0% U.S. withholding tax on \"withholdable payments,\" which consist of (i) U.S.-source dividends, interest, rents and other \"fixed or determinable annual or periodical income\" paid after June 30, 2014 and (ii) certain U.S.-source gross proceeds paid after December 31, 2018 to (a) \"foreign financial institutions\" unless (x) they enter into an agreement with the IRS to collect and disclose to the IRS information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. owners or (y) they comply with the terms of any FATCA intergovernmental agreement executed between the authorities in their jurisdiction and the U.S., and (b) \"non-financial foreign entities\" (i.e., foreign entities that are not foreign financial institutions) unless they certify certain information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. owners. Final regulations under FATCA were issued by the IRS on January 17, 2013, and have been subsequently supplemented by additional regulations and guidance. FATCA does not replace the existing U.S. withholding tax regime. However, the FATCA regulations contain coordination provisions to avoid double withholding on U.S.-source income.. A foreign investor that receives dividends on the Company's stock or gross proceeds from a disposition of shares of the Company's stock may be subject to FATCA withholding tax with respect to such dividends or gross proceeds.. Foreign investors will be subject to U.S. withholding tax on the receipt of ordinary dividends on the Company's stock.. The portion of dividends received by a foreign investor payable out of the Company's current and accumulated earnings and profits which are not attributable to capital gains and which are not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business of the foreign investor will generally be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a statutory rate of 30.0%. This 30.0% withholding tax may be reduced by an applicable income tax treaty. The FATCA and nonresident withholding regulations are complex. Even if the 30.0% withholding is reduced or eliminated by treaty for payments made to a foreign investor, FATCA withholding of 30.0% could apply depending upon the foreign investor's FATCA status. Foreign investors should consult with their independent advisors as to the U.S. withholding tax consequences to such investors with respect to their investment in the Company's stock in light of their particular circumstances, as well as determining the appropriate documentation required to reduce or eliminate U.S. withholding tax.. Foreign investors will be subject to U.S. income tax on the receipt of capital gain dividends on the Company's stock.. Under FIRPTA, distributions that we make to a foreign investor that are attributable to gains from our dispositions of U.S. real property interests (\"capital gain dividends\") will be treated as income that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business, and therefore subject to U.S. federal income tax, in the hands of the foreign investor, unless such foreign person is a \"qualified foreign pension fund\" or one of certain publicly traded non-U.S. \"qualified collective investment vehicles\". A foreign investor who is subject to tax under FIRPTA will be subject to U.S. federal income tax (at the rates applicable to U.S. investors) on any capital gain dividends, and will also be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns to report such capital gain dividends. Furthermore, capital gain dividends are subject to an additional 30.0% \"branch profits tax\" (which may be reduced by an applicable income tax treaty) in the hands of a foreign investor who is subject to tax under FIRPTA if such foreign investor is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. U.S. tax reform and related regulatory action could adversely affect you.. Because our operations are governed to a significant extent by the federal tax laws, new legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors in Company stock.  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"), which the President signed on December 22, 2017, made significant changes to the U.S. federal tax system.  Specifically, and as relevant to the Company and its subsidiaries, the TCJA reduced the maximum corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, allows for full expensing of certain property, revised the net operating loss provisions, set limitations on certain types of interest deductions, and expanded limitations on deductions for executive compensation.  The TCJA did not modify the existing REIT rules, and we still are not required to pay federal taxes provided we comply with the existing requirements to qualify as a REIT.. The following provisions of the TCJA may have an impact on the Company and investors in Company stock:. •  Interest deductibility.  The TCJA imposes a limitation on the deduction for certain business interest, subject to exceptions for electing real property trades or businesses provided the real property trade or business adopts the alternative depreciation system with respect to its property.  While we believe the Company and its subsidiaries, and the Operating Partnership are each engaged in a real property trade or business, the matter is not free from doubt.  As a result, if any of the Company, its subsidiaries, or the Operating Partnership cannot deduct all of their interest expense, or are ineligible to elect exemption from the rules, this will potentially increase the Company's taxable income and potentially increase the amount of taxable dividends we distribute to investors of Company stock.. •  Reduced rate for pass-through entities.  The TCJA provides non-corporate taxpayers with a potential 20% deduction against taxable income with respect to certain income earned through pass-through entities.  REIT. 32. ordinary dividends, such as dividends the Company distributes to investors of its stock, automatically qualify for the deduction, however it is unclear whether Company dividends earned indirectly through a regulated investment company (within the meaning of Code section 851) will qualify.. •  Expanded limitations on deductions for executive compensation.  The TCJA expanded the scope of section 162(m), which limits deductions for annual compensation paid to certain employees of publicly trade corporations, including REITs.  If a deduction is denied under this provision, this will increase our taxable income and potentially increase the amount of taxable dividends we distribute to investors of our stock.. Investors in our stock are strongly encouraged to consult with a tax advisor with respect to the potential impact the TCJA may have with respect to investing in our Company's stock."
