[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, including MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  -  FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL in Item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries with the SEC from time to time, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Such factors could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries.. UTILITY REGULATORY, LEGISLATIVE, AND LITIGATION RISKS. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial state and federal governmental regulation. Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to Southern Company and its subsidiaries.. Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses. Jointly-owned facilities may be subject to regulation by governmental agencies of more than one state and those state's governmental agencies may have different policies with respect to such jointly-owned facilities. The traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities seek to recover their costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital) through their retail rates, which must be approved by the applicable state PSC or other applicable state regulatory agency. A state PSC or other applicable state regulatory agency, in a future rate proceeding, may alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is allowed or modify the current authorized rate of return. Rate refunds may also be required. Additionally, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional electric operating companies and by Southern Power and the rates charged to natural gas transportation customers by Southern Company Gas' pipeline investments must be approved by the FERC. These wholesale rates could be affected by changes to Southern Power's and the traditional electric operating companies' ability to conduct business pursuant to FERC market-based rate authority. The FERC rules related to retaining the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates in the wholesale markets are important for the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power if they are to remain competitive in the wholesale markets in which they operate.. The impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries is uncertain. Changes in regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of Southern Company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs or otherwise negatively affect their results of operations.. The Southern Company system's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance with current and future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could negatively impact the net income, cash flows, and financial condition of the registrants.. The Southern Company system's operations are subject to extensive regulation by state and federal environmental agencies through a variety of laws and regulations governing air, water, land, and the protection of other natural resources. Compliance with these existing environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, a major portion of which is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking provisions or through market-based contracts. There is no assurance, however, that all such costs will be recovered. The registrants expect that these expenditures will continue to be significant in the future.. The EPA has adopted and is implementing regulations governing air and water quality, including the emission of nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, fine particulate matter, ozone, mercury, and other air pollutants under the Clean Air Act and regulations governing cooling water intake structures and effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under the Clean Water Act. The EPA also is reconsidering regulations governing the disposal of CCR, including coal ash and gypsum, in landfills and surface impoundments at power generation plants.. Additionally, environmental laws and regulations covering the handling and disposal of waste and release of hazardous substances could require the Southern Company system to incur substantial costs to clean up affected sites, including certain current and former operating sites, and locations affected by historical operations or subject to contractual obligations.. Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws and regulations related to air, water, land, and the protection of other natural resources may be adopted or become applicable to the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and/or Southern Company Gas.. I-20. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as standards for air, water, land, and protection of other natural resources, has occurred throughout the U.S. This litigation has included claims for damages alleged to have been caused by CO2 and other emissions, CCR, releases of regulated substances, and alleged exposure to regulated substances, and/or requests for injunctive relief in connection with such matters.. The Southern Company system's ultimate environmental compliance strategy, including potential electric generating unit retirement and replacement decisions, and future environmental capital expenditures will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed control technology, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. Compliance costs may result from the installation of additional environmental controls, closure and monitoring of CCR facilities, unit retirements, and adding or changing fuel sources for certain existing units, as well as related upgrades to the transmission system. Environmental compliance spending over the next several years may differ materially from the amounts estimated. Such expenditures could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered on a timely basis through regulated rates for the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities or through long-term wholesale agreements for the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power. Further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates could contribute to reduced demand for energy, which could negatively affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Additionally, many commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which for some may have the potential to ultimately affect their demand for electricity or natural gas.. Compliance with any new or revised environmental laws or regulations could affect many areas of the traditional electric operating companies', Southern Power's, and the natural gas distribution utilities' operations. The ultimate impact will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed control technology, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges. Additionally, many commercial and industrial customers may also be affected by existing and future environmental requirements, which may affect their demand for electricity and natural gas.. The Southern Company system may be exposed to regulatory and financial risks related to the impact of greenhouse gas (GHG) legislation and regulation.. In 2015, the EPA published final rules limiting CO2 emissions from new, modified, and reconstructed fossil fuel-fired electric generating units and guidelines for states to develop plans to meet EPA-mandated CO2 emission performance standards for existing units (known as the Clean Power Plan or CPP). In February 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a stay of the CPP, which will remain in effect through the resolution of the litigation in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia challenging the legality of the CPP and any review by the U.S. Supreme Court. On March 28, 2017, the U.S. President signed an executive order directing agencies to review actions that potentially burden the development or use of domestically produced energy resources, including review of the CPP and other CO2 emissions rules. On October 10, 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to repeal the CPP and, on December 28, 2017, published an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking regarding a CPP replacement rule.. In 2015, parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, including the United States, adopted the Paris Agreement, which established a non-binding universal framework for addressing GHG emissions based on nationally determined contributions. On June 1, 2017, the U.S. President announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement and begin renegotiating its terms. The ultimate impact of this agreement or any renegotiated agreement depends on its implementation by participating countries.. Costs associated with these actions could be significant to the utility industry and the Southern Company system. However, the ultimate impact of these environmental laws and regulations will depend on various factors, such as state adoption and implementation of requirements, the availability and cost of any deployed control technology, and the outcome of pending and/or future legal challenges.. Because natural gas is a fossil fuel with lower carbon content relative to other fossil fuels, future GHG constraints may create additional demand for natural gas, both for production of electricity and direct use in homes and businesses.  The impact is already being seen in the power production sector due to both environmental regulations and low natural gas costs. Future GHG constraints focused on minimizing emissions from natural gas, albeit lower than other fossil fuels, could likewise result in increased costs to the Southern Company system and affect the demand for natural gas as well as the prices charged to customers and the competitive position of natural gas.. I-21. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The net income of Southern Company, the traditional electric operating companies, and Southern Power could be negatively impacted by changes in regulations related to transmission planning processes and competition in the wholesale electric markets.. The traditional electric operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated utility. A small percentage of transmission revenues are collected through the wholesale electric tariff but the majority of transmission revenues are collected through retail rates. FERC rules pertaining to regional transmission planning and cost allocation present challenges to transmission planning and the wholesale market structure in the Southeast. The key impacts of these rules include:. • possible disruption of the integrated resource planning processes within the states in the Southern Company system's service territory;. • delays and additional processes for developing transmission plans; and. • possible impacts on state jurisdiction of approving, certifying, and pricing new transmission facilities.. The FERC rules related to transmission are intended to spur the development of new transmission infrastructure to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply as well as facilitate competition in the wholesale market by providing more choices to wholesale power customers. Technology changes in the power and fuel industries continue to create significant impacts to wholesale transaction cost structures. The impact of these and other such developments and the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand are uncertain. The financial condition, net income, and cash flows of Southern Company, the traditional electric operating companies, and Southern Power could be adversely affected by these and other changes.. The traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power could be subject to higher costs as a result of implementing and maintaining compliance with the North American Electric Reliability Corporation mandatory reliability standards along with possible associated penalties for non-compliance.. Owners and operators of bulk power systems, including the traditional electric operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability standards enacted by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. Compliance with or changes in the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. If any traditional electric operating company or Southern Power is found to be in noncompliance with these standards, such traditional electric operating company or Southern Power could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties.. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are continuing to review the Tax Reform Legislation, which has and could have a further material impact on the results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows of the registrants.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Reform Legislation was signed into law and became effective on January 1, 2018. The Tax Reform Legislation significantly changes the U.S. Internal Revenue Code by, among other things, reducing the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% and repealing the corporate alternative minimum tax. As a result of the tax rate reduction, Southern Company recorded net, non-cash federal income tax benefits of $264 million in the fourth quarter 2017, comprised primarily of a $743 million tax benefit resulting from reductions in deferred tax liabilities at Southern Power, partially offset by tax expenses of $372 million and $93 million resulting from reductions in deferred tax assets at Mississippi Power and Southern Company Gas, respectively.. The tax rate reduction also resulted in a $6.9 billion increase in regulatory liabilities and a $0.4 billion decrease in regulatory assets across the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution utilities. The regulatory treatment of certain impacts of the Tax Reform Legislation is subject to the discretion of the FERC and the relevant state regulatory bodies.. For businesses other than regulated utility businesses, the Tax Reform Legislation allows 100% bonus depreciation of qualified property through 2022, which phases down through 2027, and limits interest expense deductions. Regulated utility businesses, including the majority of the operations of the traditional electric operating companies and the natural gas distribution companies, can continue deducting all business interest expense and are not eligible for bonus depreciation on capital assets acquired and placed in service after September 27, 2017. The Tax Reform Legislation retains normalization provisions for public utility property and existing renewable energy incentives. However, the tax rate reduction delays the utilization of renewable tax credit carryforwards as described in Note 5 to the financial statements of Southern Company, Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Power under \"Federal Tax Reform Legislation\" in Item 8 herein.. The Tax Reform Legislation also includes provisions that limit the utilization of future net operating losses and limit the deductibility of certain executive compensation and other expenses. Further, while it is unclear how the credit rating agencies, the FERC, and relevant state regulatory bodies may respond to the Tax Reform Legislation, certain financial metrics, such as funds from operations to debt percentage, used by the credit rating agencies to assess the registrants, Southern Company Gas Capital, and Nicor Gas may be negatively impacted.. I-22. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The Tax Reform Legislation is unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations, guidance, and implementing regulations by the IRS, as well as each respective state's adoption. In addition, the regulatory treatment of certain impacts of the Tax Reform Legislation is subject to the discretion of the FERC and relevant state regulatory bodies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are continuing to review the Tax Reform Legislation and are assessing whether any potential actions are available to mitigate adverse impacts of the legislation. Southern Company and its subsidiaries may identify additional impacts as they further assess the Tax Reform Legislation and as the IRS issues interpretations and implements regulations. Southern Company will continue to monitor the actions of state legislatures and state taxing authorities to see how the states may adopt and implement the Tax Reform Legislation. While the ultimate impact of the Tax Reform Legislation, future interpretations and implementation of regulations by the IRS and state tax authorities, and any mitigating actions Southern Company and its subsidiaries may take cannot be determined at this time, the Tax Reform Legislation had and could have a further material impact on the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows of the registrants.. OPERATIONAL RISKS. The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if the subsidiaries are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions.. The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful operation of the electric utilities' generating, transmission, and distribution facilities and Southern Company Gas' natural gas distribution and storage facilities and the successful performance of necessary corporate functions. There are many risks that could affect these operations and performance of corporate functions, including:. • operator error or failure of equipment or processes;. • accidents or explosions;. • operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements;. • labor disputes;. • terrorist attacks (physical and/or cyber);. • fuel or material supply interruptions;. • transmission disruption or capacity constraints, including with respect to the Southern Company system's and third parties' transmission, storage, and transportation facilities;. • compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security standards;. • implementation of new technologies;. • information technology system failure;. • cyber intrusion;. • an environmental event, such as a spill or release; and. • catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, droughts, hurricanes, tornadoes, and storms, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences.. A decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation, transmission, or distribution facilities or natural gas distribution or storage facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the affected traditional electric operating company, Southern Power, or Southern Company Gas and of Southern Company.. Operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, safety, health, regulatory, natural disasters, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of the nuclear units owned by Alabama Power or Georgia Power and which may present potential exposures in excess of insurance coverage.. Alabama Power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and Georgia Power holds undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units. The six existing units are operated by Southern Nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 MWs, or 8% of the Southern Company system's electric generation capacity as of December 31, 2017. In addition, these units generated approximately 25% of the total KWHs generated by each of Alabama Power and Georgia Power in the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, Southern Nuclear, on behalf of Georgia Power and the other Vogtle Owners, is managing the construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Due solely to the increase in nuclear generating capacity, the below risks are expected to increase incrementally once Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 are operational. Nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, safety, health, operational, and financial risks such as:. • the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and safety resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive material, including spent nuclear fuel;. • uncertainties with respect to the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and the need for longer term on-site storage;. • uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives and the ability to maintain and anticipate adequate capital reserves for decommissioning;. I-23. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with the nuclear operations of Alabama Power and Georgia Power or those of other commercial nuclear facility owners in the U.S.;. • potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities;. • significant capital expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair of these facilities, including repairs and upgrades required by the NRC;. • the threat of a possible terrorist attack, including a potential cyber security attack; and. • the potential impact of an accident or natural disaster.. It is possible that damages, decommissioning, or other costs could exceed the amount of decommissioning trusts or external insurance coverage, including statutorily required nuclear incident insurance.. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines and/or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. NRC orders or regulations related to increased security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require Alabama Power and Georgia Power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to Alabama Power or Georgia Power and Southern Company. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear units or require additional safety measures at new and existing units. Moreover, a major incident at any nuclear facility in the U.S., including facilities owned and operated by third parties, could require Alabama Power and Georgia Power to make material contributory payments.. In addition, potential terrorist threats could result in increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult to predict.. Transporting and storing natural gas involves risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.. Southern Company Gas' natural gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, explosions, and mechanical problems, which could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, and impairment of its operations. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas could increase the level of damage resulting from these risks. Additionally, these pipeline and storage facilities are subject to various state and other regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties or potential early retirement of storage facilities, which could trigger an associated impairment. The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance or otherwise could adversely affect Southern Company Gas' and Southern Company's financial condition and results of operations.. Physical attacks, both threatened and actual, could impact the ability of the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity.. The traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas face the risk of physical attacks, both threatened and actual, against their respective generation and storage facilities and the transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport energy, which could negatively impact their ability to generate, transport, and deliver power, or otherwise operate their respective facilities, or, with respect to Southern Company Gas, its ability to distribute or store natural gas, or otherwise operate its facilities, in the most efficient manner or at all. In addition, physical attacks against key suppliers or service providers could have a similar effect on Southern Company and its subsidiaries.. Despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external physical attacks. If assets were to fail, be physically damaged, or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, or Southern Company Gas, as applicable, may be unable to fulfill critical business functions. Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or physical security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result.. These events could harm the reputation of and negatively affect the financial results of the registrants through lost revenues and costs to repair damage, if such costs cannot be recovered.. An information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, or the failure of one or more key information technology systems, networks, or processes could impact the ability of the registrants to operate and could adversely affect financial results and liquidity.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years as a result of the proliferation of new technology and increased sophistication and frequency of cyber attacks and data security breaches. The traditional electric operating. I-24. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas operate in highly regulated industries that require the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of interconnected distribution systems. Because of the critical nature of the infrastructure, increased connectivity to the internet, and technology systems' inherent vulnerability to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, acts of war or terrorism, or other types of data security breaches, Southern Company and its subsidiaries face a heightened risk of cyberattack. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system or Southern Company system operations could view these computer systems, software, or networks as targets. The registrants and their third-party vendors have been subject, and will likely continue to be subject, to attempts to gain unauthorized access to their information technology systems and confidential data or to attempts to disrupt utility operations. As a result, Southern Company and its subsidiaries face on-going threats to their assets, including assets deemed critical infrastructure, where databases and systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to advanced computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, phishing, and other cyber attacks. While there has been no material impact on business or operations from these attacks, the registrants cannot guarantee that security efforts will prevent breaches, operational incidents, or other breakdowns of information technology systems and network infrastructure.. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, Southern Company and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personally identifiable information about customers, employees, and stockholders, and other confidential information. In some cases, administration of certain functions may be outsourced to third party service providers that could also be targets of cyber attacks. Generally, Southern Company and its subsidiaries enter certain contractual security guarantees and assurances with these third parties to help ensure the security and safety of this information.. Despite the implementation of robust security measures, all assets are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures, or unauthorized access due to human error, natural disasters, technological failure, or internal or external cyber attacks. If assets were to fail or be breached and were not recovered in a timely way, the affected registrant may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised. Any cyber breach or theft, damage, or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data may also subject the affected registrant to penalties and claims from regulators or other third parties. Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result.. These events could negatively affect the financial results of the registrants through lost revenues, costs to recover and repair damage, and costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks, litigation, and reputational damage if such costs cannot be recovered through insurance or otherwise.. The Southern Company system may not be able to obtain adequate natural gas and other fuel supplies required to operate the traditional electric operating companies' and Southern Power's electric generating plants or serve Southern Company Gas' natural gas customers.. The traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and biomass, as applicable, from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel, including disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power to operate certain facilities, which could result in higher fuel and operating costs and potentially reduce the net income of the affected traditional electric operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company.. Southern Company Gas' primary business is the distribution and sale of natural gas through its regulated and unregulated subsidiaries. Natural gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane or a pipeline failure. Southern Company Gas also relies on natural gas pipelines and other storage and transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver natural gas to wholesale markets and to Southern Company Gas' distribution systems. The availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. Disruption in natural gas supplies could limit the ability to fulfill these contractual obligations.. The traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power have become more dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. In many instances, the cost of purchased power for the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power is influenced by natural gas prices. Historically, natural gas prices have been more volatile than prices of other fuels. In recent years, domestic natural gas prices have been depressed by robust supplies, including production from shale gas. These market conditions, together with additional regulation of coal-fired generating units, have increased the traditional electric operating companies' reliance on natural gas-fired generating units.. The traditional electric operating companies are also dependent on coal for a portion of their electric generating capacity. The traditional electric operating companies depend on coal supply contracts, and the counterparties to these agreements may not fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the traditional electric operating companies. The suppliers may experience financial or. I-25. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. technical problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations. In addition, the suppliers may not be required to supply coal under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. If the traditional electric operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements under these contracts, they may be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be recoverable through rates.. The revenues of Southern Company, the traditional electric operating companies, and Southern Power depend in part on sales under PPAs. The failure of a counterparty to one of these PPAs to perform its obligations, the failure of the traditional electric operating companies or Southern Power to satisfy minimum requirements under the PPAs, or the failure to renew the PPAs or successfully remarket the related generating capacity could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company.. Most of Southern Power's generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under PPAs. Southern Power's top three customers, Georgia Power, Duke Energy Corporation, and Morgan Stanley Capital Group accounted for 11.3%, 6.7%, and 4.5%, respectively, of Southern Power's total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, the traditional electric operating companies enter into PPAs with non-affiliated parties. Revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these PPAs. The failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company. Although the credit evaluations undertaken and contractual protections implemented by Southern Power and the traditional electric operating companies take into account the possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater than predicted or specified in the applicable contract.. Additionally, neither Southern Power nor any traditional electric operating company can predict whether the PPAs will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. The failure of the traditional electric operating companies or Southern Power to satisfy minimum operational or availability requirements under these PPAs could result in payment of damages or termination of the PPAs.. The asset management arrangements between Southern Company Gas' wholesale gas services and its customers, including the natural gas distribution utilities, may not be renewed or may be renewed at lower levels, which could have a significant impact on Southern Company Gas' financial results.. Southern Company Gas' wholesale gas services currently manages the storage and transportation assets of the natural gas distribution utilities except Nicor Gas. The profits earned from the management of these affiliate assets are shared with the respective affiliate's customers (and for Atlanta Gas Light Company with the Georgia PSC's Universal Service Fund), except for Chattanooga Gas Company and Elkton Gas where wholesale gas services are provided under annual fixed-fee agreements. These asset management agreements are subject to regulatory approval and such agreements may not be renewed or may be renewed with less favorable terms.. Southern Company Gas' wholesale gas services also has asset management agreements with certain non-affiliated customers and its financial results could be significantly impacted if these agreements are not renewed or are amended or renewed with less favorable terms. Sustained low natural gas prices could reduce the demand for these types of asset management arrangements.. Increased competition could negatively impact Southern Company's and its subsidiaries' revenues, results of operations, and financial condition.. The Southern Company system faces increasing competition from other companies that supply energy or generation and storage technologies. Changes in technology may make the Southern Company system's electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power less competitive. Southern Company Gas' business is dependent on natural gas prices remaining competitive as compared to other forms of energy. Southern Company Gas also faces competition in its unregulated markets.. A key element of the business models of the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. There are distributed generation and storage technologies that produce and store power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, solar cells, and batteries. Advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation that allows for increased self-generation by customers. Broader use of distributed generation by retail energy customers may also result from customers' changing perceptions of the merits of utilizing existing generation technology or tax or other economic incentives. Additionally, a state PSC or legislature may modify certain aspects of the traditional electric operating companies' business as a result of these advances in technology.. I-26. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. It is also possible that rapid advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current electric generating facilities owned by the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power. Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of Southern Company, the traditional electric operating companies, or Southern Power.. Southern Company Gas' gas marketing services is affected by competition from other energy marketers providing similar services in Southern Company Gas' service territories, most notably in Illinois and Georgia. Southern Company Gas' wholesale gas services competes for sales with national and regional full-service energy providers, energy merchants and producers, and pipelines based on the ability to aggregate competitively-priced commodities with transportation and storage capacity. Southern Company Gas competes with natural gas facilities in the Gulf Coast region of the U.S., as the majority of the existing and proposed high deliverability salt-dome natural gas storage facilities in North America are located in the Gulf Coast region.. If new technologies become cost competitive and achieve sufficient scale, the market share of the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas could be eroded, and the value of their respective electric generating facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities could be reduced. Additionally, Southern Company Gas' market share could be reduced if Southern Company Gas cannot remain price competitive in its unregulated markets. If state PSCs or other applicable state regulatory agencies fail to adjust rates to reflect the impact of any changes in loads, increasing self-generation, and the growth of distributed generation, the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Southern Company and the affected traditional electric operating company or Southern Company Gas could be materially adversely affected.. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact Southern Company's and its subsidiaries' results of operations.. Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges such as lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development, including with the workforce needs associated with major construction projects and ongoing operations. The Southern Company system's costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect Southern Company and its subsidiaries' ability to manage and operate their businesses. If Southern Company and its subsidiaries are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted.. CONSTRUCTION RISKS. The registrants may incur additional costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to recover their investments. Also, existing facilities of the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas require ongoing capital expenditures, including those to meet environmental standards.. General. The businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new facilities and, for the traditional electric operating companies, capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities, and, for Southern Company Gas, capital improvements to natural gas distribution and storage facilities, including those to meet environmental standards. Certain of the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. Southern Company Gas is replacing certain pipelines in its natural gas distribution system and is involved in two new gas pipeline construction projects. The Southern Company system intends to continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, expanding or updating existing facilities, and adding environmental control equipment. These types of projects are long term in nature and in some cases include the development and construction of facilities with designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. The completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to substantial risks, including:. • shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor;. • changes in labor costs and productivity;. • work stoppages;. • contractor or supplier delay or non-performance under construction, operating, or other agreements or non-performance by other major participants in construction projects;. • delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, tax credits, and other regulatory authorizations;. • delays associated with start-up activities, including major equipment failure and system integration, and/or operational performance (including additional costs to satisfy any operational parameters ultimately adopted by any PSC or other applicable state regulatory agency);. I-27. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • operational readiness, including specialized operator training and required site safety programs;. • impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations;. • the outcome of legal challenges to projects, including legal challenges to regulatory approvals;. • failure to construct in accordance with permitting and licensing requirements;. • failure to satisfy any environmental performance standards and the requirements of tax credits and other incentives;. • continued public and policymaker support for such projects;. • adverse weather conditions or natural disasters;. • other unforeseen engineering or design problems;. • changes in project design or scope;. • environmental and geological conditions;. • delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids; and. • unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor, and increased financing costs as a result of changes in market interest rates or as a result of construction schedule delays.. If a traditional electric operating company, Southern Power, or Southern Company Gas is unable to complete the development or construction of a project or decides to delay or cancel construction of a project, it may not be able to recover its investment in that project and may incur substantial cancellation payments under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. Additionally, each Southern Company Gas pipeline construction project involves separate joint venture participants, Southern Power participates in partnership agreements with respect to renewable energy projects, and Georgia Power jointly owns Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 with other co-owners. Any failure by a partner or co-owner to perform its obligations under the applicable agreements could have a material negative impact on the applicable project under construction. In addition, partnership and joint ownership agreements may provide partners or co-owners with certain decision-making authority in connection with projects under construction.. Even if a construction project (including a joint venture construction project) is completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and may not be recoverable through regulated rates, if applicable. In addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of the affected registrant.. Construction delays could result in the loss of otherwise available investment tax credits, PTCs, and other tax incentives. Furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional electric operating company, Southern Power, or Southern Company Gas and Southern Company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income.. Once facilities become operational, ongoing capital expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of operation. Significant portions of the traditional electric operating companies' existing facilities were constructed many years ago. Older equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to provide safe and reliable operations.. The largest construction project currently underway in the Southern Company system is Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.. Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 construction and rate recovery. In 2009, the Georgia PSC certified construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. In 2012, the NRC issued the related combined construction and operating licenses, which allowed full construction of the two AP1000 nuclear units (with electric generating capacity of approximately 1,100 MWs each) and related facilities to begin. Until March 2017, construction on Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 continued under a substantially fixed price engineering, procurement, and construction agreement, pursuant to which the EPC Contractor agreed to design, engineer, procure, construct, and test Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. On March 29, 2017, the EPC Contractor filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.. In connection with the EPC Contractor's bankruptcy filing, Georgia Power, acting for itself and as agent for the Vogtle Owners, entered into an agreement with the EPC Contractor to allow construction to continue (Interim Assessment Agreement). The Interim Assessment Agreement expired on July 27, 2017 upon the effectiveness of a services agreement between the Vogtle Owners and the EPC Contractor for the EPC Contractor to transition construction management of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 to Southern Nuclear and to provide ongoing design, engineering, and procurement services to Southern Nuclear (Vogtle Services Agreement). In August 2017, following completion of comprehensive cost to complete and cancellation cost assessments, Georgia Power filed its seventeenth Vogtle Construction Monitoring (VCM) report with the Georgia PSC, which included a recommendation to continue construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4, with Southern Nuclear serving as project manager and Bechtel Power Corporation (Bechtel) serving as the primary construction contractor. Facility design and engineering remains the responsibility of the EPC Contractor under the Vogtle Services Agreement. The construction completion agreement between Georgia Power, for itself and as agent for the other Vogtle Owners, and Bechtel (Bechtel Agreement) is a cost reimbursable plus. I-28. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. fee arrangement, whereby Bechtel will be reimbursed for actual costs plus a base fee and an at-risk fee, which is subject to adjustment based on Bechtel's performance against cost and schedule targets.. On November 2, 2017, the Vogtle Owners entered into an amendment to their joint ownership agreements for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 (as amended, Vogtle Joint Ownership Agreements) to provide for, among other conditions, additional Vogtle Owner approval requirements. Pursuant to the Vogtle Joint Ownership Agreements, the holders of at least 90% of the ownership interests in Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 must vote to continue construction if certain adverse events occur, including (i) the bankruptcy of Toshiba Corporation; (ii) termination or rejection in bankruptcy of certain agreements, including the Vogtle Services Agreement or the Bechtel Agreement; (iii) the Georgia PSC or Georgia Power determines that any of Georgia Power's costs relating to the construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 will not be recovered in retail rates because such costs are deemed unreasonable or imprudent; or (iv) an increase in the construction budget contained in the seventeenth VCM report of more than $1 billion or extension of the project schedule contained in the seventeenth VCM report of more than one year. In addition, pursuant to the Vogtle Joint Ownership Agreements, the required approval of holders of ownership interests in Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 is at least (i) 90% for a change of the primary construction contractor and (ii) 67% for material amendments to the Vogtle Services Agreement or agreements with Southern Nuclear or the primary construction contractor, including the Bechtel Agreement.. On December 21, 2017, the Georgia PSC voted to approve (and issued its related order on January 11, 2018) Georgia Power's recommendation to continue construction and resolved the following regulatory matters related to Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4: (i) none of the $3.3 billion of costs incurred through December 31, 2015 and reflected in the fourteenth VCM report should be disallowed from rate base on the basis of imprudence; (ii) the December 31, 2015 agreement between Westinghouse and the Vogtle Owners resolving disputes between the Vogtle Owners and the EPC Contractor under the original engineering, procurement, and construction agreement for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 (Contractor Settlement Agreement) was reasonable and prudent and none of the amounts paid pursuant to the Contractor Settlement Agreement should be disallowed from rate base on the basis of imprudence; (iii) (a) capital costs incurred up to $5.680 billion would be presumed to be reasonable and prudent with the burden of proof on any party challenging such costs, (b) Georgia Power would have the burden to show that any capital costs above $5.680 billion were prudent, and (c) a revised capital cost forecast of $7.3 billion (after reflecting the impact of payments received under the Guarantee Settlement Agreement and the Customer Refunds, each as defined below) is found reasonable; (iv) construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 should be completed, with Southern Nuclear serving as project manager and Bechtel as primary contractor; (v) approved and deemed reasonable Georgia Power's revised schedule placing Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 in service in November 2021 and November 2022, respectively; (vi) confirmed that the revised cost forecast does not represent a cost cap and that prudence decisions on cost recovery will be made at a later date, consistent with applicable Georgia law; (vii) reduced the return on equity (ROE) used to calculate the Nuclear Construction Cost Recovery (NCCR) tariff (a) from 10.95% (the ROE rate setting point authorized by the Georgia PSC in the 2013 Alternative Rate Plan) to 10.00% effective January 1, 2016, (b) from 10.00% to 8.30%, effective January 1, 2020, and (c) from 8.30% to 5.30%, effective January 1, 2021 (provided that the ROE in no case will be less than Georgia Power's average cost of long-term debt); (viii) reduced the ROE used for allowance for funds used during construction equity for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 from 10.00% to Georgia Power's average cost of long-term debt, effective January 1, 2018; and (ix) agreed that upon Unit 3 reaching commercial operation, retail base rates would be adjusted to include carrying costs on those capital costs deemed prudent in the settlement agreement approved by the Georgia PSC on December 20, 2016. The January 11, 2018 order also stated that if Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 are not commercially operational by June 1, 2021 and June 1, 2022, respectively, the ROE used to calculate the NCCR tariff will be further reduced by 10 basis points each month (but not lower than Georgia Power's average cost of long-term debt) until the respective unit is commercially operational. In its January 11, 2018 order, the Georgia PSC stated if other certain conditions and assumptions upon which Georgia Power's seventeenth VCM report are based do not materialize, both Georgia Power and the Georgia PSC reserve the right to reconsider the decision to continue construction.. On February 12, 2018, Georgia Interfaith Power & Light, Inc. and Partnership for Southern Equity, Inc. filed a petition appealing the Georgia PSC's January 11, 2018 order with the Fulton County Superior Court. Georgia Power believes the appeal has no merit; however, an adverse outcome in this appeal could have a material impact on Southern Company's and Georgia Power's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. Georgia Power expects Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 to be placed in service by November 2021 and November 2022, respectively. Georgia Power's revised capital cost forecast for its 45.7% proportionate share of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 is $8.8 billion ($7.3 billion after reflecting the impact of payments received under a settlement agreement regarding Toshiba's guarantee of certain obligations of the EPC Contractor (Guarantee Settlement Agreement) and certain refunds to customers ordered by the Georgia PSC (Customer Refunds)). Georgia Power's construction work in progress balance for Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 was $3.3 billion at December 31, 2017, which is net of the Guarantee Settlement Agreement payments less the Customer Refunds. Georgia Power estimates that its financing costs for construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 will total approximately $3.1 billion, of which $1.6 billion had been incurred through December 31, 2017.. I-29. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. As construction continues, challenges with management of contractors, subcontractors, and vendors, labor productivity and availability, fabrication, delivery, assembly, and installation of plant systems, structures, and components (some of which are based on new technology and have not yet operated in the global nuclear industry at this scale), or other issues could arise and change the projected schedule and estimated cost.. There have been technical and procedural challenges to the construction and licensing of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 at the federal and state level and additional challenges may arise. Processes are in place that are designed to assure compliance with the requirements specified in the Westinghouse Design Control Document and the combined construction and operating licenses, including inspections by Southern Nuclear and the NRC that occur throughout construction. As a result of such compliance processes, certain license amendment requests have been filed and approved or are pending before the NRC. Various design and other licensing-based compliance matters, including the timely resolution of Inspections, Tests, Analyses, and Acceptance Criteria and the related approvals by the NRC, may arise, which may result in additional license amendments or require other resolution. If any license amendment requests or other licensing-based compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner, there may be delays in the project schedule that could result in increased costs.. The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.. See Note 3 to the financial statements of Southern Company under \"Nuclear Construction\" and of Georgia Power under \"Retail Regulatory Matters - Nuclear Construction\" for additional information regarding Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4.. Southern Company Gas' significant investments in pipelines and pipeline development projects involve financial and execution risks.. Southern Company Gas has made significant investments in existing pipelines and pipeline development projects. Many of the existing pipelines are, and when completed many of the pipeline development projects will be, operated by third parties. If one of these agents fails to perform in a proper manner, the value of the investment could decline and Southern Company Gas could lose part or all of the investment. In addition, from time to time, Southern Company Gas may be required to contribute additional capital to a pipeline joint venture or guarantee the obligations of such joint venture.. With respect to certain pipeline development projects, Southern Company Gas will rely on its joint venture partners for construction management and will not exercise direct control over the process. All of the pipeline development projects are dependent on contractors for the successful and timely completion of the projects. Further, the development of pipeline projects involves numerous regulatory, environmental, construction, safety, political, and legal uncertainties and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. These projects may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. There may be cost overruns and construction difficulties that cause Southern Company Gas' capital expenditures to exceed its initial expectations. Moreover, Southern Company Gas' revenues will not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a pipeline project. Pipeline construction occurs over an extended period of time and Southern Company Gas will not receive material increases in revenues until the project is placed in service.. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition of Southern Company Gas and Southern Company.. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND MARKET RISKS. The electric generation and energy marketing operations of the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power and the natural gas operations of Southern Company Gas are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control, including changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which may reduce revenues and increase costs.. The generation, energy marketing, and natural gas operations of the Southern Company system are subject to changes in energy prices and fuel costs, which could increase the cost of producing power, decrease the amount received from the sale of energy, and/or make electric generating facilities less competitive. The market prices for these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. Among the factors that could influence energy prices and fuel costs are:. • prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, biomass, and other fuels, as applicable, used in the generation facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power and, in the case of natural gas, distributed by Southern Company Gas, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities;. • demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available from current or new competitors;. • liquidity in the general wholesale electricity and natural gas markets;. • weather conditions impacting demand for electricity and natural gas;. • seasonality;. • transmission or transportation constraints, disruptions, or inefficiencies;. • availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources;. • forced or unscheduled plant outages for the Southern Company system, its competitors, or third party providers;. • the financial condition of market participants;. I-30. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • the economy in the Southern Company system's service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the impact of economic conditions on demand for electricity and the demand for fuels, including natural gas;. • natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic events; and. • federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation.. Certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, or Southern Company Gas and Southern Company. For the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Company Gas' regulated gas distribution operations, such increases may not be fully recoverable through rates. Other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, or Southern Company Gas and Southern Company.. Historically, the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Company Gas from time to time have experienced underrecovered fuel and/or purchased gas cost balances and may experience such balances in the future. While the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Company Gas are generally authorized to recover fuel and/or purchased gas costs through cost recovery clauses, recovery may be denied if costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred, and delays in the authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional electric operating company or Southern Company Gas and Southern Company.. The registrants are subject to risks associated with a changing economic environment, customer behaviors, including increased energy conservation, and adoption patterns of technologies by the customers of the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas.. The consumption and use of energy are fundamentally linked to economic activity. This relationship is affected over time by changes in the economy, customer behaviors, and technologies. Any economic downturn could negatively impact customer growth and usage per customer, thus reducing the sales of energy and revenues. Additionally, any economic downturn or disruption of financial markets, both nationally and internationally, could negatively affect the financial stability of customers and counterparties of the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas.. Outside of economic disruptions, changes in customer behaviors in response to energy efficiency programs, changing conditions and preferences, or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the relationship of economic activity to the consumption of energy.. Both federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy, and several of the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Company Gas have PSC or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates to promote energy efficiency. Conservation programs could impact the financial results of the registrants in different ways. For example, if any traditional electric operating company or Southern Company Gas is required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact on such traditional electric operating company or Southern Company Gas and Southern Company. Customers could also voluntarily reduce their consumption of energy in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices, or individual conservation efforts.. In addition, the adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. Many new technologies utilize less energy than in the past. However, new electric and natural gas technologies such as electric and natural gas vehicles can create additional demand. The Southern Company system uses best available methods and experience to incorporate the effects of changes in customer behavior, state and federal programs, PSC or other applicable state regulatory agency mandates, and technology, but the Southern Company system's planning processes may not appropriately estimate and incorporate these effects.. All of the factors discussed above could adversely affect Southern Company's, the traditional electric operating companies', Southern Power's, and/or Southern Company Gas' results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. The operating results of the registrants are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In addition, catastrophic events, such as fires, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, and storms, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of the properties of the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and/or Southern Company Gas and could negatively impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity.. Electric power and natural gas supply are generally seasonal businesses. In many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other areas, power demand peaks during the winter months. In most of the areas the traditional electric operating companies serve, electric power sales peak during the summer with a smaller peak during the winter, while in most of the areas Southern Company Gas serves, natural gas demand peaks during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of the registrants may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas have historically sold less. I-31. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. power and natural gas when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, and available cash of the affected registrant.. Further, volatile or significant weather events could result in substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional electric operating companies, the generating facilities of the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Power, and the natural gas distribution and storage facilities of Southern Company Gas. The traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas have significant investments in the Atlantic and Gulf Coast regions and Southern Power has wind and natural gas investments in various states which could be subject to severe weather, as well as solar investments in various states which could be subject to natural disasters. Further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities.. In the event a traditional electric operating company or Southern Company Gas experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster or other catastrophic event, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject to the approval of its state PSC or other applicable state regulatory agency. Historically, the traditional electric operating companies from time to time have experienced deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience such deficits in the future. Any denial by the applicable state PSC or other applicable state regulatory agency or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a traditional electric operating company's or Southern Company Gas' and Southern Company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. In addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any traditional electric operating company or Southern Company Gas or affecting Southern Power's customers may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for energy for extended periods. Any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand for energy could have a material negative impact on a traditional electric operating company's, Southern Power's, or Southern Company Gas' and Southern Company's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. Acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of Southern Company and its subsidiaries.. Southern Company and its subsidiaries have made significant acquisitions and investments in the past and may in the future make additional acquisitions, dispositions, or other strategic ventures or investments, including the proposed sale by Pivotal Utility Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company Gas, of the assets of its natural gas distribution utilities, Elizabethtown Gas and Elkton Gas, and the potential sale by Southern Power of a 33% equity interest in a newly-formed holding company that owns substantially all of Southern Power's solar assets. Southern Company and its subsidiaries continually seek opportunities to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions or sales of assets. Specifically, Southern Power continually seeks opportunities to execute its strategy to create value through various transactions, including acquisitions and sales of assets, development and construction of new generating facilities, and entry into PPAs primarily with investor-owned utilities, independent power producers, municipalities, and other load-serving entities, as well as commercial and industrial customers.. Southern Company and its subsidiaries may face significant competition for transactional opportunities and anticipated transactions may not be completed on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, these transactions are intended to, but may not, result in the generation of cash or income, the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, or the reduction of risk. These transactions may also affect the liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition of Southern Company and its subsidiaries.. These transactions also involve risks, including:. • they may not result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return on capital or other anticipated benefits;. • they may result in Southern Company or its subsidiaries entering into new or additional lines of business, which may have new or different business or operational risks;. • they may not be successfully integrated into the acquiring company's operations and/or internal control processes;. • the due diligence conducted prior to a transaction may not uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure or the acquiring company may not appropriately evaluate the likelihood or quantify the exposure from identified risks;. • they may result in decreased earnings, revenues, or cash flow;. • expected benefits of a transaction may be dependent on the cooperation or performance of a counterparty; or. • for the traditional electric operating companies and Southern Company Gas, costs associated with such investments that were expected to be recovered through rates may not be recoverable.. I-32. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Southern Company and Southern Company Gas are holding companies and are dependent on cash flows from their respective subsidiaries to meet their ongoing and future financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness and, for Southern Company, to pay dividends on its common stock.. Southern Company and Southern Company Gas are holding companies and, as such, they have no operations of their own. Substantially all of Southern Company's and Southern Company Gas' respective consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. A significant portion of Southern Company Gas' debt is issued by its 100%-owned subsidiary, Southern Company Gas Capital, and is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Southern Company Gas. Southern Company's and Southern Company Gas' ability to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and, for Southern Company, to pay dividends on its common stock, is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of their respective subsidiaries and the ability of those subsidiaries to pay upstream dividends or to repay borrowed funds. Prior to funding Southern Company or Southern Company Gas, the respective subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. These subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide Southern Company or Southern Company Gas with funds. In addition, Southern Company and Southern Company Gas may provide capital contributions or debt financing to subsidiaries under certain circumstances, which would reduce the funds available to meet their respective financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and to pay dividends on Southern Company's common stock.. A downgrade in the credit ratings of any of the registrants, Southern Company Gas Capital, or Nicor Gas could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or could require posting of collateral or replacing certain indebtedness.. There are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for the registrants, Southern Company Gas Capital, and Nicor Gas, including capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other commitments for capital. The registrants, Southern Company Gas Capital, and Nicor Gas could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any rating agency concludes that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or the applicable company has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. If one or more rating agencies downgrade any registrant, Southern Company Gas Capital, or Nicor Gas, borrowing costs likely would increase, including automatic increases in interest rates under applicable term loans and credit facilities, the pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for any downgrade to below investment grade, significant collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of contracts. Any credit rating downgrades could require altering the mix of debt financing currently used, and could require the issuance of secured indebtedness and/or indebtedness with additional restrictive covenants binding the applicable company.. Uncertainty in demand for energy can result in lower earnings or higher costs. If demand for energy falls short of expectations, it could result in potentially stranded assets. If demand for energy exceeds expectations, it could result in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional electric generation and transmission facilities or natural gas distribution and storage facilities.. Southern Company, the traditional electric operating companies, and Southern Power each engage in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of new generation assets required to serve future load obligations. Southern Company Gas engages in a long-term planning process to estimate the optimal mix and timing of building new pipelines and storage facilities, replacing existing pipelines, rewatering storage facilities, and entering new markets and/or expanding in existing markets. These planning processes must look many years into the future in order to accommodate the long lead times associated with the permitting and construction of new generation and associated transmission facilities and natural gas distribution and storage facilities. Inherent risk exists in predicting demand this far into the future as these future loads are dependent on many uncertain factors, including economic conditions, customer usage patterns, efficiency programs, and customer technology adoption. Because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies or Southern Company Gas' regulated operating companies to adjust rates to recover the costs of new generation and associated transmission assets and/or new pipelines and related infrastructure in a timely manner or at all, Southern Company and its subsidiaries may not be able to fully recover these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs and the recovery in customers' rates. In addition, under Southern Power's model of selling capacity and energy at negotiated market-based rates under long-term PPAs, Southern Power might not be able to fully execute its business plan if market prices drop below original forecasts. Southern Power and/or the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to extend existing PPAs or find new buyers for existing generation assets as existing PPAs expire, or they may be forced to market these assets at prices lower than originally intended. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected registrant.. The traditional electric operating companies are currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term PPAs. Southern Power is currently obligated to supply power to wholesale customers under long-. I-33. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. term PPAs. At peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed the Southern Company system's available generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require that the traditional electric operating companies purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation and transmission facilities, and for Southern Power to purchase energy or capacity on the open market. Because regulators may not permit the traditional electric operating companies to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional electric operating companies may not be able to recover some or all of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the traditional electric operating companies' recovery in customers' rates. Under Southern Power's long-term fixed price PPAs, Southern Power may not be able to recover all of these costs. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected registrant.. The businesses of the registrants and Nicor Gas are dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial institutions. The inability of any of the registrants or Nicor Gas to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows.. The registrants and Nicor Gas rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. If any of the registrants or Nicor Gas is not able to access capital at competitive rates or on favorable terms, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows. In addition, the registrants and Nicor Gas rely on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost money markets. Each of the registrants and Nicor Gas believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current credit ratings. However, certain events or market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements or the ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of capital. Such disruptions could include:. • an economic downturn or uncertainty;. • bankruptcy or financial distress at an unrelated energy company, financial institution, or sovereign entity;. • capital markets volatility and disruption, either nationally or internationally;. • changes in tax policy;. • volatility in market prices for electricity and natural gas;. • terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on the Southern Company system's facilities or unrelated energy companies' facilities;. • war or threat of war; or. • the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries.. As of December 31, 2017, Mississippi Power's current liabilities exceeded current assets by approximately $911 million primarily due to a $900 million unsecured term loan that matures on March 31, 2018. Mississippi Power expects to refinance the unsecured term loan with external security issuances and/or borrowings from financial institutions or Southern Company. Mississippi Power has been informed by Southern Company that in the event sufficient funds are not available from external sources, Southern Company intends to provide Mississippi Power with loans and/or equity to fund the remaining indebtedness to mature and other cash needs over the next 12 months.. Georgia Power's ability to make future borrowings through its term loan credit facility with the Federal Financing Bank is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, as well as certification of compliance with the requirements of the loan guarantee program under Title XVII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, including accuracy of project-related representations and warranties, delivery of updated project-related information and evidence of compliance with the prevailing wage requirements of the Davis-Bacon Act of 1931, as amended, and certification from the DOE's consulting engineer that proceeds of the advances are used to reimburse certain costs of construction relating to Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4 that are eligible for financing under the Title XVII Loan Guarantee Program. Prior to obtaining any further advances under Georgia Power's loan guarantee agreement with the DOE, Georgia Power is required to obtain the DOE's approval of the Bechtel Agreement.. Failure to comply with debt covenants or conditions could adversely affect the ability of the registrants, Southern Company Gas Capital, or Nicor Gas to execute future borrowings.. The debt and credit agreements of the registrants, Southern Company Gas Capital, and Nicor Gas contain various financial and other covenants. Georgia Power's loan guarantee agreement with the DOE contains additional covenants, events of default, and mandatory prepayment events relating to the construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements, which would negatively affect the applicable company's financial condition and liquidity.. I-34. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase defined benefit pension and other postretirement plan costs and the costs of nuclear decommissioning.. The costs of providing pension and other postretirement benefit plans are dependent on a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, changes in actuarial assumptions, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy, and the frequency and amount of the Southern Company system's required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund the pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and the Southern Company system could be required from time to time to fund the pension plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. Additionally, Alabama Power and Georgia Power each hold significant assets in their nuclear decommissioning trusts to satisfy obligations to decommission Alabama Power's and Georgia Power's nuclear plants. The rate of return on assets held in those trusts can significantly impact both the costs of decommissioning and the funding requirements for the trusts.. The registrants are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs.. The financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and natural disasters, among other things, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets. The availability of insurance covering risks that the registrants and their respective competitors typically insure against may decrease, and the insurance that the registrants are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms. Further, the insurance policies may not cover all of the potential exposures or the actual amount of loss incurred.. Any losses not covered by insurance, or any increases in the cost of applicable insurance, could adversely affect the results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition of the affected registrant.. The use of derivative contracts by Southern Company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of the registrants or in reported net income volatility.. Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional electric operating companies, Southern Power, and Southern Company Gas, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, manage foreign currency exchange rate exposure and engage in limited trading activities. The registrants could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. These risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. In addition, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. The factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts.. In addition, Southern Company Gas utilizes derivative instruments to lock in economic value in wholesale gas services, which may not qualify or are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes. The difference in accounting treatment for the underlying position and the financial instrument used to hedge the value of the contract can cause volatility in reported net income of Southern Company and Southern Company Gas while the positions are open due to mark-to-market accounting.. Future impairments of goodwill or long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on the registrants' results of operations.. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value and long-lived assets are assessed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. In connection with the completion of the Merger, the application of the acquisition method of accounting was pushed down to Southern Company Gas. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of Southern Company Gas' assets and liabilities was recorded as goodwill. This resulted in a significant increase in the goodwill recorded on Southern Company's and Southern Company Gas' consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2017, goodwill was $6.3 billion and $6.0 billion for Southern Company and Southern Company Gas, respectively.. In addition, Southern Company and its subsidiaries have long-lived assets recorded on their balance sheets. To the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets become impaired, the affected registrant may be required to incur impairment charges that could have a material impact on their results of operations. For example, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Company. I-35. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Gas owns and operates a natural gas storage facility consisting of two salt dome caverns where recent seismic mapping indicates that proximity of one of the caverns to the edge of the salt dome may be less than the required minimum and could result in Southern Company Gas retiring the cavern early. Early retirement of the cavern could trigger impairment of other long-lived assets associated with the natural gas storage facility. In addition, a subsidiary of Southern Company has several leveraged lease agreements, with terms ranging up to 45 years, which relate to international and domestic energy generation, distribution, and transportation assets. Southern Company receives federal income tax deductions for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on long-term debt related to these investments. Southern Company reviews all important lease assumptions at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that a change in assumptions has occurred or may occur. With respect to Southern Company's subsidiary's investments in leveraged leases, the recovery of its investment is dependent on the profitable operation of the leased assets by the respective lessees. A significant deterioration in the performance of the leased asset could result in the impairment of the related lease receivable.. I-36. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements"
