[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions; in the event of unfavorable economic conditions or economic uncertainty, the Company's results of operations could be negatively affected, which could require the Company to adjust its business strategies.. The airline industry, which is subject to relatively high fixed costs and highly variable and unpredictable demand, is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions. Historically, unfavorable U.S. economic conditions have driven changes in travel patterns and have resulted in reduced spending for both leisure and business travel. For some consumers, leisure travel is a discretionary expense, and short-haul travelers, in particular, have the option to replace air travel with surface travel. Businesses are able to forego air travel by using communication alternatives such as videoconferencing and the Internet or may be more likely to purchase less expensive tickets to reduce costs, which can result in a decrease in average revenue per seat. Unfavorable economic conditions, when low fares are often used to stimulate traffic, have also historically hampered the ability of airlines to raise fares to counteract any increases in fuel, labor, and other costs. Although the U.S. economy has experienced modest economic growth over the course of the past several years, any continuing or future U.S. or global economic uncertainty could negatively affect the Company's results of operations and could cause the Company to adjust its business strategies.. The Company's business can be significantly impacted by high and/or volatile fuel prices, and the Company's operations are subject to disruption in the event of any delayed supply of fuel; therefore, the Company's strategic plans and future profitability are likely to be impacted by the Company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases and fuel price volatility and availability.. Airlines are inherently dependent upon energy to operate, and jet fuel and oil represented approximately 22 percent of the Company's operating expenses for 2017. Although 2017 fuel prices were moderately higher than 2016 fuel prices, as discussed above under \"Business - Cost Structure,\" the cost of fuel can be extremely volatile and unpredictable, and even a small change in market fuel prices can significantly affect profitability. Furthermore, volatility in fuel prices can be due to many external factors that are beyond the Company's control. For example, fuel prices can be impacted by political and economic factors, such as (i) dependency on foreign imports of crude oil and the potential for hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas; (ii) limited domestic refining or pipeline capacity due to weather, natural disasters, or other factors; (iii) worldwide demand for fuel, particularly in developing countries, which can result in inflated energy prices; (iv) changes in U.S. governmental policies on fuel production, transportation, taxes, and marketing; and (v) changes in currency exchange rates.. The Company's ability to effectively address fuel price increases could be limited by factors such as its historical low-fare reputation, the portion of its Customer base that purchases travel for leisure purposes, the competitive nature of. 21. the airline industry generally, and the risk that higher fares will drive a decrease in demand. The Company attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. However, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. Because the Company uses a variety of different derivative instruments at different price points, the Company is subject to the risk that the fuel derivatives it uses will not provide adequate protection against significant increases in fuel prices and could in fact result in hedging losses, and the Company effectively paying higher than market prices for fuel, thus creating additional volatility in the Company's earnings. The Company is also subject to the risk that cash collateral may be required to be posted to fuel hedge counterparties, which could have a significant impact on the Company's financial position and liquidity.. In addition, the Company is subject to the risk that its fuel derivatives will not be effective or that they will no longer qualify for hedge accounting under applicable accounting standards, which can create additional earnings volatility. Adjustments in the Company's overall fuel hedging strategy, as well as the ability of the commodities used in fuel hedging to qualify for special hedge accounting, are likely to continue to affect the Company's results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to cost-effectively hedge against increases in fuel prices. Also, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on future changes in applicable standards for hedge accounting.. The Company's fuel hedging arrangements and the various potential impacts of hedge accounting on the Company's financial position, cash flows, and results of operations are discussed in more detail under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,\" and in Note 1 and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. The Company is also reliant upon the readily available supply and timely delivery of jet fuel to the airports that it serves. A disruption in that supply could present significant challenges to the Company's operations and could ultimately cause the cancellation of flights and/or the inability of the Company to provide service to a particular airport.. The Company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, and many factors have affected and could continue to affect the Company's ability to control its costs.. The Company's low-cost structure has historically been one of its primary competitive advantages, as it has enabled it to offer low fares, drive traffic volume, grow market share, and protect profits. The Company's low-cost position has become even more significant with the increased presence of ULCCs and changes to the legacy fare offerings discussed above; however, it has become increasingly difficult for the Company to improve upon its industry cost position. For example, labor and fuel costs, as well as other costs such as regulatory compliance costs, can negatively affect the Company's ability to control its costs. Furthermore, the Company has limited control over many of these costs.. Jet fuel and oil constituted approximately 22 percent of the Company's operating expenses during 2017, and the Company's ability to control the cost of fuel is subject to the external factors discussed in the second Risk Factor above.. Salaries, wages, and benefits constituted approximately 41 percent of the Company's operating expenses during 2017. The Company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the Company's low-cost competitive position. As discussed further under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" the Company's unionized workforce, which makes up approximately 83 percent of its Employees, has had pay scale increases as a result of contractual rate increases. Additionally, the majority of Southwest's unionized Employees, including its Pilots; Flight Attendants; Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, and Freight Agents; Aircraft Appearance Technicians; and Flight Crew Training Instructors, ratified new collective-bargaining agreements during 2016, which have put pressure on the Company's low-cost structure. Furthermore, as indicated above under \"Business - Employees,\" other Southwest unionized Employees, including its Mechanics and Material Specialists, are in unions currently in negotiations for labor agreements, which could result in additional pressure on the Company's low-cost structure.. As discussed above under \"Business - Regulation,\" the airline industry is heavily regulated, and the Company's regulatory compliance costs are subject to potentially significant increases from time to time based on actions by regulatory agencies that are out of the Company's control. Additionally, the Company cannot control decisions by other airlines to reduce their capacity. When this occurs, airport costs are allocated among a fewer number of total flights,. 22. which can result in increased landing fees and other costs for the Company. The Company is also reliant upon third party vendors and service providers, in particular with respect to its fleet and technology initiatives and performance, and the Company's low-cost advantage is also dependent in part on its ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with those parties.. As discussed above under \"Business - Insurance,\" the Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry. Although the Company has been able to purchase aviation, property, liability, and professional insurance via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect against the Company's risk of loss from future events, including acts of terrorism. Further, available cyber-security insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the Company's risk of loss. In addition, an accident or other incident involving Southwest aircraft could result in costs in excess of its related insurance coverage, which costs could be substantial. Any aircraft accident or other incident, even if fully insured, could also have a material adverse effect on the public's perception of the Company.. The Company cannot guarantee it will be able to maintain or improve upon its current level of low-cost advantage over many of its airline competitors. ULCCs, which have increased capacity in the Company's markets, have surpassed the Company's cost advantage. When competitors grow their fleets and expand their networks, they are potentially able to better control costs per available seat mile. In addition, like Southwest, some competitors have added a significant number of new and different aircraft to their fleets, which could potentially decrease their operating costs through better fuel efficiencies and lower maintenance costs.. The Company is increasingly dependent on technology to operate its business and continues to implement substantial changes to its information systems; any failure, disruption, breach, or delay in implementation of the Company's information systems could materially adversely affect its operations.. The Company is increasingly dependent on the use of complex technology and systems to run its ongoing operations and support its strategic objectives.. Implementation and integration of complex systems and technology presents significant challenges in terms of costs, human resources, and development of effective internal controls. Implementation and integration require a balancing between the introduction of new capabilities and the managing of existing systems, and present the risk of operational or security inadequacy or interruption, which could materially affect the Company's ability to effectively operate its business and/or could negatively impact the Company's results of operations. The Company is also reliant upon the performance of its third party vendors for timely and effective completion of many of its technology initiatives and for maintaining adequate information security measures.. In the ordinary course of business, the Company's systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address growth and changing business requirements, including requirements related to international operations. In addition, the Company's systems may require modification to enable the Company to comply with changing regulatory requirements. Modifications and refinements to the Company's systems have been and are expected to continue to be expensive to implement and can divert management's attention from other matters. In addition, the Company's operations could be adversely affected, or it could face imposition of regulatory penalties, if it were unable to timely or effectively modify its systems as necessary or appropriately balance the introduction of new capabilities with the management of existing systems.. The Company has experienced system interruptions and delays that make its websites and services unavailable or slow to respond, which can prevent the Company from efficiently processing Customer transactions or providing services, and these could continue to occur in the future. These system interruptions and delays can reduce the Company's operating revenues and the attractiveness of its services, as well as increase the Company's costs. The Company's computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes, power loss, computer and telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent the Company from processing Customer transactions or providing services, which could make the Company's business and services less attractive and subject the Company to liability. Any of these events could damage the Company's reputation and be expensive to remedy.. 23. The Company's business is labor intensive; therefore, the Company would be adversely affected if it were unable to maintain satisfactory relations with its Employees or its Employees' Representatives.. The airline business is labor intensive. Salaries, wages, and benefits represented approximately 41 percent of the Company's operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, approximately 83 percent of the Company's Employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions, making the Company particularly exposed in the event of labor-related job actions. Employment-related issues that have, and continue to, impact the Company's results of operations, some of which are negotiated items, include hiring/retention rates, pay rates, outsourcing costs, work rules, health care costs, and retirement benefits.. The Company is currently dependent on single aircraft and engine suppliers, as well as single suppliers of certain other parts; therefore, the Company would be materially adversely affected if it were unable to obtain additional equipment or support from any of these suppliers, in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with their equipment, or in the event the pricing and operational attributes of the Company's equipment become less competitive.. The Company is dependent on Boeing as its sole supplier for aircraft and many of its aircraft parts and is dependent on other suppliers for certain other aircraft parts. Although the Company is able to purchase some aircraft from parties other than Boeing, most of its purchases are directly from Boeing. Therefore, if the Company was unable to acquire additional aircraft from Boeing, or if Boeing was unable or unwilling to make timely deliveries of aircraft or to provide adequate support for its products, the Company's operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company would be materially adversely affected in the event of a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with the Boeing 737 aircraft type, whether as a result of downtime for part or all of the Company's fleet, increased maintenance costs, or because of a negative perception by the flying public. The Company believes, however, that its years of experience with the Boeing 737 aircraft type, as well as the efficiencies Southwest has historically achieved by operating with a single aircraft type, continue to outweigh the risks associated with its single aircraft supplier strategy. The Company is also dependent on sole suppliers for aircraft engines and certain other aircraft parts and would therefore also be materially adversely affected in the event of the unavailability of, or a mechanical or regulatory issue associated with, engines and other parts. The Company could also be materially adversely affected if the pricing or operational attributes of its equipment were to become less competitive.. Any failure of the Company to maintain the security of certain Customer-related information could result in damage to the Company's reputation and could be costly to remediate.. The Company must receive information related to its Customers in order to run its business, and the Company's operations depend upon secure retention and the secure transmission of information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. This information is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, and theft. Although the Company maintains systems to defend against this from occurring, these systems require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, and security could be compromised, confidential information could be misappropriated, or system disruptions could occur. In the ordinary course of its business, the Company also provides certain confidential, proprietary, and personal information to third parties. While the Company seeks to obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk the security of data held by third parties could be breached. A compromise of the Company's security systems could adversely affect the Company's reputation and disrupt its operations and could also result in litigation against the Company or the imposition of penalties. In addition, it could be costly to remediate. Although the Company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the Company has experienced cyber-attacks in the past, which have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the Company.. The Company's results of operations could be adversely impacted if it is unable to grow or to effectively execute its strategic plans.. Southwest has historically been regarded as a growth airline. However, organic growth remains challenging because (i) the opportunities for domestic expansion are limited; (ii) the Company's international network is relatively small. 24. and international expansion presents unique challenges; and (iii) the Company has faced an increased presence of other low-cost, low-fare carriers. As a result, the Company is reliant on the success of its revenue strategies to help offset certain increasing costs. The timely and effective execution of the Company's strategic plans could be negatively affected by (i) the Company's ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain related information technology systems and infrastructure; (ii) the Company's ability to effectively balance its investment of incremental operating expenses and capital expenditures related to its strategies against the need to effectively control costs; and (iii) the Company's dependence on third parties with respect to its strategic plans.. The airline industry has faced on-going security concerns and related cost burdens; further threatened or actual terrorist attacks, or other hostilities, could significantly harm the airline industry and the Company's operations.. Terrorist attacks or other crimes and hostilities, actual and threatened, have from time to time materially adversely affected the demand for air travel and also have resulted in increased safety and security costs for the Company and the airline industry generally. Safety measures create delays and inconveniences and can, in particular, reduce the Company's competitiveness against surface transportation for short-haul routes. Additional terrorist attacks or other hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of such attacks or other hostilities (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights due to terror threats) would likely have a further significant negative impact on the Company and the airline industry.. Airport capacity constraints and air traffic control inefficiencies have limited and could continue to limit the Company's growth; changes in or additional governmental regulation could increase the Company's operating costs or otherwise limit the Company's ability to conduct business.. Almost all commercial service airports are owned and/or operated by units of local or state governments. Airlines are largely dependent on these governmental entities to provide adequate airport facilities and capacity at an affordable cost. Similarly, the federal government singularly controls all U.S. airspace, and airlines are completely dependent on the FAA operating that airspace in a safe and efficient manner. The current air traffic control system is mainly radar-based and supported in large part by antiquated equipment and technologies. The FAA's protracted transition to a satellite-based air traffic control system, as well as the implementation of policies and standards that account for the precision of global positioning system-supported aircraft technologies, could continue to adversely impact airspace capacity and the overall efficiency of the system, resulting in limited opportunities for the Company to grow, longer scheduled flight times, increased delays and cancellations, and increased fuel consumption and aircraft emissions. As discussed above under \"Business - Regulation,\" airlines are also subject to other extensive regulatory requirements. These requirements often impose substantial costs on airlines. The Company's strategic plans and results of operations could be negatively affected by changes in law and future actions taken by domestic and foreign governmental agencies having jurisdiction over its operations, including, but not limited to:. • increases in airport rates and charges;. • limitations on airport gate capacity or use of other airport facilities such as the 2016 and 2017 reallocation of slots at John Wayne Airport in Orange County, California, which caused the Company to reduce service at that airport;. • limitations on route authorities;. • actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining access at slot-controlled airports;. • actions and decisions that create difficulties in obtaining operating permits and approvals;. • changes to environmental regulations;. • new or increased taxes or fees;. • changes to laws that affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports;. • restrictions on competitive practices;. • changes in laws that increase costs for safety, security, compliance, or other Customer Service standards;. • changes in laws that may limit the Company's ability to enter into fuel derivative contracts to hedge against increases in fuel prices;. • changes in laws that may limit or regulate the Company's ability to promote the Company's business or fares; and. 25. • the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise regulations.. Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers can have a disproportionate effect on an airline's operating and financial results. Therefore, any general reduction in airline passenger traffic as a result of any of the factors listed above could adversely affect the Company's results of operations. In addition, in instances where the airline industry shrinks, many airport operating costs are essentially unchanged and must be shared by the remaining operating carriers, which can therefore increase the Company's costs.. The airline industry is affected by many conditions that are beyond its control, which can impact the Company's business strategies and results of operations.. In addition to the unpredictable economic conditions and fuel costs discussed above, the Company, like the airline industry in general, is affected by conditions that are largely unforeseeable and outside of its control, including, among others:. • adverse weather and natural disasters such as the hurricanes and earthquakes in third quarter 2017, which resulted in approximately $100 million in reduced revenues for the Company as a result of approximately 5,000 canceled flights;. • changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends (including, without limitation, changes in government travel patterns due to government shutdowns or sequestration);. • actual or potential disruptions in the air traffic control system (including, without limitation, as a result of potential FAA budget cuts due to government shutdowns or sequestration);. • changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, industry bankruptcies, and other factors;. • air traffic congestion and other air traffic control issues;. • outbreaks of disease; and. • actual or threatened war, terrorist attacks, and political instability.. The airline industry is intensely competitive.. As discussed in more detail above under \"Business - Competition,\" the airline industry is intensely competitive. The Company's primary competitors include other major domestic airlines, as well as regional and new entrant airlines, surface transportation, and alternatives to transportation such as videoconferencing and the Internet. The Company's revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers with respect to pricing, routes, frequent flyer programs, scheduling, capacity, customer service, operational reliability, comfort and amenities, cost structure, aircraft fleet, and code-sharing and similar activities.. The Company's future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded international operations and/or Extended Operations (\"ETOPS\").. With the expansion of the Company's international flight offerings, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (\"CBP\") has become an increasingly important federal agency. CBP personnel and CBP-mandated procedures can affect the Company's operations, costs, and Customer experience. The Company has made, and is continuing to make, significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the Customer experience and to assist CBP with its inspection and processing duties; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various CBP measures or the lack of CBP resources will have on Company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term.. International flying requires the Company to modify certain processes, as the airport environment is dramatically different in certain international locations with respect to, among other things, common-use ticket counters and gate areas, local operating requirements, and cultural preferences. In addition, international flying exposes the Company to certain foreign currency risks to the extent the Company chooses to, or is required to, transact in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To the extent the Company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT and/or approvals from the FAA, as well as any applicable foreign government entity.. 26. The Company's expansion of its operations into non-U.S. jurisdictions also expands the scope of the laws to which the Company is subject, both domestically and internationally. In addition, operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of those jurisdictions rather than U.S. laws. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and these differences can affect the Company's ability to react to changes in its business, and its rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. laws. Furthermore, enforcement of laws in some jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both the Company's ability to enforce its rights and to undertake activities that it believes are beneficial to its business. As a result, the Company's ability to generate revenue and its expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. laws governed these operations. Although the Company has policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates, a violation by the Company's Employees, contractors, or agents or other intermediaries, could nonetheless occur. Any violation (or alleged or perceived violation), even if prohibited by the Company's policies, could have an adverse effect on the Company's reputation and/or its results of operations.. As discussed above under \"Regulation  -  Operational, Safety, and Health Regulation,\" in January 2018, the Company submitted a formal application to the FAA for authorization to conduct ETOPS using Boeing 737-800 aircraft, in connection with the Company's plans to begin service to Hawaii. If the Company receives FAA authorization and commences ETOPS, the Company will be subject to additional, ongoing, ETOPS-specific regulatory and procedural requirements, which could add operational and compliance risks to the Company's business, including costs associated therewith.. The Company is currently subject to pending litigation, and if judgment were to be rendered against the Company in the litigation, such judgment could adversely affect the Company's operating results.. As discussed below under \"Legal Proceedings,\" the Company and its AirTran subsidiary are subject to pending litigation.. Regardless of merit, these litigation matters and any potential future claims against the Company or AirTran may be both time consuming and disruptive to the Company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. Should the Company or AirTran fail to prevail in these or other matters, the Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could materially adversely affect its business and might materially affect its financial condition and operating results."
