[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operation and ability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock could be adversely impacted due to any of these risks.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We are subject to commodity price risk.. Our financial results are largely dependent on the prices at which we can acquire the commodities we resell. The prevailing market prices for natural gas and electricity have historically, and may continue to, fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. Changes in market prices for natural gas and electricity may result from many factors that are outside of our control, including the following:. -  weather conditions;. -  seasonality;. -  demand for energy commodities and general economic conditions;. -   disruption of natural gas or electricity transmission or transportation infrastructure or other constraints or inefficiencies;. -  reduction or unavailability of generating capacity, including temporary outages, mothballing, or retirements;. -   the level of prices and availability of natural gas and competing energy sources, including the impact of changes in environmental regulations impacting suppliers;. -  the creditworthiness or bankruptcy or other financial distress of market participants;. -   changes in market liquidity;. -   natural disasters, wars, embargoes, acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events;. -   significant changes in the pricing methods in the wholesale markets in which we operate;. -   changes in regulatory policies concerning how markets are structured, how compensation is provided for service, and the kinds of different services that can or must be offered;. -  federal, state, foreign and other governmental regulation and legislation; and. -   demand side management, conservation, alternative or renewable energy sources.. Changes to the prices we pay to acquire commodities and that we are not able to pass along to our customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by weather conditions.. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for and availability of natural gas and electricity and affect the prices of energy commodities. Generally, on most utility systems, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter and demand for electricity peaks in the summer. Typically, when winters are warmer or summers are cooler, demand for energy is lower than expected, resulting in less natural gas and electricity consumption than forecasted. When demand is below anticipated levels due to weather patterns, we may be forced to sell excess supply at prices below our acquisition cost, which could result in reduced margins or even losses.. Conversely, when winters are colder or summers are warmer, consumption may outpace the volumes of natural gas and electricity against which we have hedged, and we may be unable to meet increased demand with storage or swing supply. In these circumstances, we may experience reduced margins or even losses if we are required to purchase additional supply at higher prices. Our failure to accurately anticipate demand due to fluctuations in weather or to effectively manage our supply in response to a fluctuating commodity price environment could. 22. Table of Contents. materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Our risk management policies and hedging procedures may not mitigate risk as planned, and we may fail to fully or effectively hedge our commodity supply and price risk.. To provide energy to our customers, we purchase commodities in the wholesale energy markets, which are often highly volatile. Our commodity risk management strategy is designed to hedge substantially all of our forecasted volumes on our fixed-price customer contracts, as well as a portion of the near-term volumes on our variable-price customer contracts. We use both physical and financial products to hedge our exposure. The efficacy of our risk management program may be adversely impacted by unanticipated events and costs that we are not able to effectively hedge, including abnormal customer attrition and consumption, certain variable costs associated with electricity grid reliability, pricing differences in the local markets for local delivery of commodities, unanticipated events that impact supply and demand, such as extreme weather, and abrupt changes in the markets for, or availability or cost of, financial instruments that help to hedge commodity price.. We are exposed to basis risk in our operations when the commodities we hedge are sold at different delivery points from the exposure we are seeking to hedge. For example, if we hedge our natural gas commodity price with Chicago basis but physical supply must be delivered to the individual delivery points of specific utility systems around the Chicago metropolitan area, we are exposed to basis risk between the Chicago basis and the individual utility system delivery points. These differences can be significant from time to time, particularly during extreme, unforecasted cold weather conditions. Similarly, in certain of our electricity markets, customers pay the load zone price for electricity, so if we purchase supply to be delivered at a hub, we may have basis risk between the hub and the load zone electricity prices due to local congestion that is not reflected in the hub price. We attempt to hedge basis risk where possible, but hedging instruments are sometimes not economically feasible or available in the smaller quantities that we require.. Additionally, assumptions that we use in establishing our hedges may reduce the effectiveness of our hedging instruments. Considerations that may affect our hedging policies include, but are not limited to, human error, assumptions about customer attrition, the relationship of prices at different trading or delivery points, assumptions about future weather, and our load forecasting models.. In addition, we incur costs monthly for ancillary charges such as reserves and capacity in the electricity sector by ISOs. For example, the ISOs will charge all retail electricity providers for monthly reserves that the ISO determines are necessary to protect the integrity of the grid. We attempt to estimate such amounts but they are difficult to estimate because they are charged in arrears by the ISOs and are subject to fluctuations based on weather and other market conditions. We may be unable to fully pass the higher cost of ancillary reserves and reliability services through to our customers, and increases in the cost of these ancillary reserves and reliability services could negatively impact our results of operations.. Many of the natural gas utilities we serve allocate a share of transportation and storage capacity to us as a part of their competitive market operations. We are required to fill our allocated storage capacity with natural gas, which creates commodity supply and price risk. Sometimes we cannot hedge the volumes associated with these assets because they are too small compared to the much larger bulk transaction volumes required for trades in the wholesale market or it is not economically feasible to do so. In some regulatory programs or under some contracts, this capacity may be subject to recall by the utilities, which could have the effect of us being required to access the spot market to cover such recall.. If we are unable to effectively manage our risk management policies and hedging procedures, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We face risks due to increasing regulation of the retail energy industry at the state level.. 23. Table of Contents. Some states are beginning to increase their regulation of their retail electricity and natural gas markets in an effort to eliminate deceptive marketing practices. For example, in 2015 the Connecticut Legislature passed legislation providing that licensed electric suppliers in Connecticut could no longer offer variable rate products.. Additionally, the New York Public Service Commission (the \"NYPSC\") began an aggressive campaign in 2016 to limit the types of competitive products that ESCOs, such as us, can offer in New York. The NYPSC attempted to implement a market resetting order requiring that all new customer enrollments or expiring agreements for mass market (residential and certain small commercial) customers must enroll or re-enroll in a contract that offers either: (i) a guarantee that the customer will pay no more than what the customer would pay as a full service utility customer, or (ii) an electricity product that is at least 30% derived from specific renewable sources either in the State of New York or in adjacent market areas. Most of the original resetting order was vacated by a New York state court on July 22, 2016. However, the ESCOs lost an appeal on the matter of whether the NYPSC has jurisdiction over ESCO pricing of products. Currently, ESCOs and the NYPSC are involved in evidentiary proceedings that are addressing, among other things, whether the NYPSC has sufficient cause to implement another similar resetting order. In the event that all or significant components of the original resetting order are re-implemented, ESCOs, including us, could be obligated to drop customers to the utility or seek affirmative consent from their fixed and variable rate customers upon renewal, which may be very difficult to obtain. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 16% of our customers on an RCE basis were located in New York.. The NYPSC has also successfully implemented a low-income order that requires ESCOs to return existing low-income customers to utility service and stop enrolling new low-income customers unless customers are enrolled in guaranteed savings arrangements (that were entered into prior to the effective date of the low-income order) or if the ESCO receives a waiver from the NYPSC to provide low-income customers with guaranteed savings. As a result of the low-income order, we are being required to drop low-income customers to the applicable utilities in the next twelve months, representing approximately less than 1% of our total customer count as of December 31, 2017.. There can be no assurance that the NYPSC or state regulatory agencies to which we are subject will not continue trying to implement restrictive anti-competitive regulations on us. Any such regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. The retail energy business is subject to a high level of federal, state and local regulations, which are subject to change.. Our costs of doing business may fluctuate based on changing state, federal and local rules and regulations. For example, many electricity markets have rate caps, and changes to these rate caps by regulators can impact future price exposure. Similarly, regulatory changes can result in new fees or charges that may not have been anticipated when existing retail contracts were drafted, which can create financial exposure. Our ability to manage cost increases that result from regulatory changes will depend, in part, on how the \"change in law provisions\" of our contracts are interpreted and enforced, among other factors. Accordingly, changing or additional regulations or restrictions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Liability under the TCPA has increased significantly in recent years, and we face risks if we fail to comply.. Our outbound telemarketing efforts and use of mobile messaging to communicate with our customers subjects us to regulation under the TCPA. Over the last several years, companies have been subject to significant liabilities as a result of violations of the TCPA, including penalties, fines and damages under class action lawsuits. In addition, the increased use by us and other consumer retailers of mobile messaging to communicate with our customers has created new issues of application of the TCPA to these communications. In 2015, the Federal Communications Commission issued several rulings that made compliance with the TCPA more difficult and costly. Our failure to effectively monitor and comply with our activities that are subject to the TCPA could result in significant penalties and the adverse effects of having to defend and ultimately suffer liability in a class action lawsuit related to such non-compliance.. 24. Table of Contents. We are also subject to liability under the TCPA for actions of our third party vendors who are engaging in outbound telemarketing efforts on our behalf. The issue of vicarious liability for the actions of third parties in violation of the TCPA remains unclear and has been the subject of conflicting precedent in the federal appellate courts. There can be no assurance that we may be subject to significant damages as a result of a class action lawsuit for actions of our vendors that we may not be able to control. If any violation of the TCPA were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We are subject to risks of significant liability resulting from class action lawsuits.. In recent years, retail energy providers have been named as defendants in class action lawsuits relating to pricing and sales practices, among other matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial jury awards or settlements. We are currently a defendant in several class action lawsuits involving sales practices or TCPA claims. A negative outcome could result in significant damages depending on whether a class is certified, and if so, the size of a such class. Future litigation relating to our pricing and sales practices may negatively impact us by requiring us to pay substantial awards or settlements, increasing our legal costs, diverting management attention from other business issues or harming our reputation with customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Our business is dependent on retaining licenses in the markets in which we operate.. Our business model is dependent on continuing to be licensed in existing markets. If we have a license revoked or are not granted renewal of a license, or if our license is adversely conditioned or modified (e.g., by increased bond posting obligations), it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, which could cause us to fail to realize many of the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions.. We intend to grow our business in part through strategic acquisition opportunities from third parties and potentially from affiliates of our majority shareholder. Achieving the anticipated benefits of these transactions will depend in part upon our ability to identify accretive acquisition targets, accurately assess the benefits and risks of the acquisition prior to undertaking it, and our ability to integrate the acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner.. We intend to make acquisitions that are accretive to Adjusted EBITDA. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate commercially acceptable terms for such acquisitions. Even if we identify a target, the successful acquisition of a business requires assessing several factors, including anticipated cash flow and accretive value, regulatory challenges, our ability to retain customers and assumed liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain and our assessments may turn out incorrect.. Furthermore, even if we make an acquisition, we may not be able to accomplish the integration process smoothly or successfully. The difficulties of integrating our acquisitions potentially will include, among other things:. -  coordinating geographically separate organizations and addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies;. -  dedicating significant management resources to the integration of acquisitions, which may temporarily distract management's attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company;. -  increased liquidity needs to support working capital for the purchase of natural gas and electricity supply to meet our customers' needs, for the credit requirements of forward physical supply and for generally higher operating expenses;. -  operating in states and markets where we have not previously conducted business;. 25. Table of Contents. -  managing different and competing brands and retail strategies in the same markets;. -  coordinating customer information and billing systems and determining how to optimize those systems on a consolidated level;. -  ensuring our hedging strategy adequately covers a customer base that is managed through multiple systems; and. -  successfully recognizing expected cost savings and other synergies in overlapping functions.. In many of our acquisition agreements, we are entitled to indemnification from the counter party for various matters, including breaches of representations, warranties and covenants, tax matters, and litigation proceedings. We generally obtain security to provide assurances that the counterparty could perform its indemnification obligations, which may be in the form of escrow accounts, payment withholding or other methods. However, to the extent that we do not obtain security, or the security turns out to be inadequate, there is a risk that the counter-party may fail to perform its indemnification obligations, which could result in the losses being incurred by us.. If any of the risks above were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Pursuant to our cash dividend policy, we distribute a significant portion of our cash through regular quarterly dividends, and our ability to grow and make acquisitions with cash on hand could be limited.. Pursuant to our cash dividend policy, we have been distributing, and intend to distribute, a significant portion of our cash through regular quarterly dividends to holders of our Class A common stock and dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock. As such, our growth may not be as fast as that of businesses that reinvest their available cash to expand ongoing operations, and we may have to rely upon external financing sources, including the issuance of debt, equity securities, convertible subordinated notes and borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility and Subordinated Facility. If these sources are not available, our ability to grow and maintain our business may be limited, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We may not be able to manage our growth successfully.. The growth of our operations will depend upon our ability to expand our customer base in our existing markets and to enter new markets in a timely manner at reasonable costs, organically or through acquisitions. In order for us to recover expenses incurred in entering new markets and obtaining new customers, we must attract and retain customers on economic terms and for extended periods. We may experience difficulty managing our growth and implementing new product offerings, integrating new customers and employees, and complying with applicable market rules and the infrastructure for product delivery.. Expanding our operations also may require continued development of our operating and financial controls and may place additional stress on our management and operational resources. If we are unable to manage our growth and development successfully, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. The termination of our Master Service Agreement subjects us to a variety of risks.. A significant portion of our operations, including enrollment and renewal transaction services, customer billing and transaction services, electronic payment processing services, customer services and information technology infrastructure and application support services, is currently provided to us by our affiliate, Retailco Services, LLC, for a fixed fee under the Master Service Agreement. The Master Service Agreement will terminate effective April 1, 2018, and we will be reintegrating the services previously provided to us by Retailco Services, LLC under the Master Service Agreement back into our operations. We may experience costs integrating these services back into our operations. Additionally, following the integration of those services back into our operations, we may. 26. Table of Contents. experience fluctuations in general and administrative costs that we did not experience under the fixed-fee arrangement of the Master Service Agreement. If any of the risks above were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Our financial results fluctuate on a seasonal, quarterly and annual basis.. Our overall operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal, quarterly and annual basis depending on: (1) the geographic mix of our customer base; (2) the concentration of our product mix; (3) the impact of weather conditions on commodity pricing and demand; (4) variability in market prices for natural gas and electricity, and (5) changes in the cost of delivery of commodities through energy delivery networks. These factors can have material short-term impacts on monthly and quarterly operating results, which may be misleading when considered outside of the context of our annual operating cycle. In addition, our accounts payable and accounts receivable are impacted by seasonality due to the timing differences between when we pay our suppliers for accounts payable versus when we collect from our customers on accounts receivable. We typically pay our suppliers for purchases of natural gas on a monthly basis and electricity on a weekly basis. However, it takes approximately two months from the time we deliver the electricity or natural gas to our customers before we collect from our customers on accounts receivable attributable to those supplies. This timing difference could affect our cash flows, especially during peak cycles in the winter and summer months. Furthermore, as a result of the seasonality of our business, we may reserve a portion of our excess cash available for distribution in the first and fourth quarters in order to fund our second and third quarter distributions.. Additionally, we enter into a variety of financial derivative and physical contracts to manage commodity price risk, and we use mark-to-market accounting to account for this hedging activity. Under the mark-to-market accounting method, changes in the fair value of our hedging instruments that are not qualifying or not designated as hedges under accounting rules are recognized immediately in earnings. As a result of this accounting treatment, changes in the forward prices of natural gas and electricity cause volatility in our quarterly and annual earnings, which we are unable to fully anticipate.. We could also incur volatility from quarter to quarter associated with gains and losses on settled hedges relating to natural gas held in inventory if we choose to hedge the summer-winter spread on our retail allocated storage capacity. We typically purchase natural gas inventory and store it from April to October for withdrawal from November through March. Since a portion of the inventory is used to satisfy delivery obligations to our fixed-price customers over the winter months, we hedge the associated price risk using derivative contracts. Any gains or losses associated with settled derivative contracts are reflected in the statement of operations as a component of retail cost of sales and net asset optimization.. Accordingly, we may experience seasonal, quarterly and annual fluctuations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We may have difficulty retaining our existing customers or obtaining a sufficient number of new customers, due to competition and for other reasons.. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we may face difficulty retaining our existing customers or obtaining new customers due to competition. We encounter significant competition from local regulated utilities or their retail affiliates and traditional and new retail energy providers. Many of these competitors or potential competitors are larger than us, have access to more significant capital resources, have more well-established brand names and have larger existing installed customer bases.. Additionally, existing customers may switch to other retail energy service providers during their contract terms in the event of a significant decrease in the retail price of natural gas or electricity in order to obtain more favorable prices. Although we generally have a right to collect a termination fee from each customer on a fixed-price contract. 27. Table of Contents. who terminates their contract early, we may not be able to collect the termination fees in full or at all. Our variable-price contracts can typically be terminated by our customers at any time without penalty.. If we are unable to obtain new customers or maintain our existing customers, due to competition or otherwise, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Increased collateral requirements in connection with our supply activities may restrict our liquidity, which could limit our ability to grow our business or pay dividends.. Our contractual agreements with certain local regulated utilities and our supplier counterparties require us to maintain restricted cash balances or letters of credit as collateral for credit risk or the performance risk associated with the future delivery of natural gas or electricity. These collateral requirements may increase as we grow our customer base. Collateral requirements will increase based on the volume or cost of the commodity we purchase in any given month and the amount of capacity or service contracted for with the local regulated utility. Significant changes in market prices also can result in fluctuations in the collateral that local regulated utilities or suppliers require.. The effectiveness of our operations and future growth depend in part on the amount of cash and letters of credit available to enter into or maintain these contracts. The cost of these arrangements may be affected by changes in credit markets, such as interest rate spreads in the cost of financing between different levels of credit ratings. These liquidity requirements may be greater than we anticipate or are able to meet. If any of these risks were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We are subject to direct credit risk for certain customers who may fail to pay their bills as they become due.. We bear direct credit risk related to our customers located in markets that have not implemented POR programs as well as indirect credit risk in those POR markets that pass collection efforts along to us after a specified non-payment period. For the year ended December 31, 2017, customers in non-POR markets represented approximately 34% of our retail revenues. We generally have the ability to terminate contracts with customers in the event of non-payment, but in most states in which we operate we cannot disconnect their natural gas or electricity service. In POR markets where the local regulated utility has the ability to return non-paying customers to us after specified periods, we may realize a loss for one to two billing periods until we can terminate these customers' contracts. We may also realize a loss on fixed-price customers in this scenario due to the fact that we will have already fully hedged the customer's expected commodity usage for the life of the contract and we also remain liable to our suppliers of natural gas and electricity for the cost of our supply commodities. Furthermore, in the Texas market, we are responsible for billing the distribution charges for the local regulated utility and are at risk for these charges, in addition to the cost of the commodity, in the event customers fail to pay their bills. Changing economic factors, such as rising unemployment rates and energy prices also result in a higher risk of customers being unable to pay their bills when due.. The failure of our customers to pay their bills or our failure to maintain adequate billing and collection procedures could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or pay dividends. It could also expose us to the risk of increased interest rates and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry as well as impact our cash available for distribution.. 28. Table of Contents. We have $125.3 million of indebtedness outstanding and $47.2 million in issued letters of credit under our Senior Credit Facility, and no indebtedness outstanding under our Subordinated Facility as of December 31, 2017. Debt we incur under our Senior Credit Facility, Subordinated Facility or otherwise could have negative consequences, including:. -  increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;. -   requiring cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to pay dividends to holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, or to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. -  limiting our ability to fund future acquisitions or engage in other activities that we view as in our long-term best interest;. -   restricting our ability to make certain distributions with respect to our capital stock and the ability of our subsidiaries to make certain distributions to us, in light of restricted payment and other financial covenants, including requirements to maintain certain financial ratios, in our credit facilities and other financing agreements;. -  exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility are  at variable rates of interest; and. -  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital including collateral postings, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes.. If we are unable to satisfy financial covenants in our debt instruments, it could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may entitle the lenders to demand repayment or enforce their security interests. Our Senior Credit Facility will mature on May 19, 2019, and we cannot assure that we will be able to negotiate a new credit arrangement on commercially reasonable terms. The occurrence of any of the events above could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We depend on the accuracy of data in our information management systems, which subjects us to risks.. We depend on the accuracy and timeliness of our information management systems for billing, collections, consumption and other important data. We rely on many internal and external sources for this information, including:. -  our marketing, pricing and customer operations functions; and. -   various local regulated utilities and ISOs for volume or meter read information, certain billing rates and billing types (e.g., budget billing) and other fees and expenses.. Inaccurate or untimely information, which may be outside of our direct control, could result in:. -   inaccurate and/or untimely bills sent to customers;. -  incorrect tax remittances;. -   reduced effectiveness and efficiency of our operations;. -   inability to adequately hedge our portfolio;. -   increased overhead costs;. -   inaccurate accounting and reporting of customer revenues, gross margin and accounts receivable activity;. -  inaccurate measurement of usage rates, throughput and imbalances;. -   customer complaints; and. -   increased regulatory scrutiny.. We are also subject to disruptions in our information management systems arising out of events beyond our control, such as natural disasters, epidemics, failures in hardware or software, power fluctuations, telecommunications and. 29. Table of Contents. other similar disruptions. In addition, our information management systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, incursions by intruders or hackers and cyber terrorists and other similar disruptions. A successful cyber-attack on our information management systems could severely disrupt business operations, preventing us from billing and collecting revenues, and could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage, lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny, diminished customer confidence and damage to our reputation. We do not maintain cyber-liability insurance that covers certain damage caused by cyber events.. Inaccurate data and disruptions of our information management systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of whom could disrupt our business operations.. We depend on the continued employment and performance of key management personnel. A number of our senior executives have substantial experience in consumer and energy markets that have undergone regulatory restructuring and have extensive risk management and hedging expertise. We believe their experience is important to our continued success. We do not maintain key life insurance policies for our executive officers. If our key executives do not continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We rely on a third party vendor for our customer billing and transactions platform that exposes us to third party performance risk.. We have outsourced our back office customer billing and transactions functions to a third party, and we rely heavily on the continued performance of that vendor under the outsourcing agreement. Failure of our vendor to operate in accordance with the terms of the outsourcing agreement or the vendor's bankruptcy or other event that prevents it from performing under our outsourcing agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. A large portion of our current customers are concentrated in a limited number of states, making us vulnerable to customer concentration risks.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 60% of our RCEs were located in five states. Specifically, 16%, 12%, 12%, 11% and 9% of our customers on an RCE basis were located in NY, PA, CT, MA, and NH, respectively. If we are unable to increase our market share across other competitive markets or enter into new competitive markets effectively, we may be subject to continued or greater customer concentration risk. In addition, if any of the states that contain a large percentage of our customers were to reverse regulatory restructuring or change the regulatory environment in a manner that causes us to be unable to economically operate in that state, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Increases in state renewable portfolio standards or an increase in the cost of renewable energy credit and carbon offsets may adversely impact the price, availability and marketability of our products.. Pursuant to state renewable portfolio standards, we must purchase a specified amount of renewable energy credits, or RECs, based on the amount of electricity we sell in a state in a year. In addition, we have contracts with certain customers that require us to purchase RECs or carbon offsets. If a state increases its renewable portfolio standards, the demand for RECs within that state will increase and therefore the market price for RECs could increase. We attempt to forecast the price for the required RECs and carbon offsets at the end of each month and incorporate this forecast into our customer pricing models, but the price paid for RECs and carbon offsets may be higher than. 30. Table of Contents. forecasted. We may be unable to fully pass the higher cost of RECs through to our customers, and increases in the price of RECs may decrease our results of operations and affect our ability to compete with other energy retailers that have not contracted with customers to purchase RECs or carbon offsets. Further, a price increase for RECs or carbon offsets may require us to decrease the renewable portion of our energy products, which may result in a loss of customers. A further reduction in benefits received by local regulated utilities from production tax credits in respect of renewable energy may adversely impact the availability to us, and marketability by us, of renewable energy under our brands. Accordingly, such decrease may result in reduced revenue and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Our access to marketing channels may be contingent upon the viability of our telemarketing and door-to-door agreements with our vendors.. Our vendors are essential to our telemarketing and door-to-door sales activities. Our ability to increase revenues in the future will depend significantly on our access to high quality vendors. If we are unable to attract new vendors and retain existing vendors to achieve our marketing targets, our growth may be materially reduced. There can be no assurance that competitive conditions will allow these vendors and their independent contractors to continue to successfully sign up new customers. Further, if our products are not attractive to, or do not generate sufficient revenue for our vendors, we may lose our existing relationships. In addition, the decline in landlines reduces the number of potential customers that may be reached by our telemarketing efforts and as a result our telemarketing sales channel may become less viable and we may be required to use more door-to-door marketing. Door-to-door marketing is continually under scrutiny by state regulators and legislators, which may lead to new rules and regulations that impact our ability to use these channels. If any of these risks were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Our vendors may expose us to risks.. We are subject to reputational risks that may arise from the actions of our vendors and their independent contractors that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as violations of our marketing policies and procedures as well as any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. If our vendors engage in marketing practices that are not in compliance with local laws and regulations, we may be in breach of applicable laws and regulations that may result in regulatory proceedings, disadvantageous conditioning of our energy retailer license, or the revocation of our energy retailer license. Unauthorized activities in connection with sales efforts by agents of our vendors, including calling consumers in violation of the TCPA and predatory door-to-door sales tactics and fraudulent misrepresentation could subject us to class action lawsuits against which we will be required to defend. Such defense efforts will be costly and time consuming. In addition, the independent contractors of our vendors may consider us to be their employer and seek compensation.. If any of these risks were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue paying our targeted quarterly dividend to the holders of our Class A common stock or dividends to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock in the future.. The amount of our cash available for distribution principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. -  changes in commodity prices, which may be driven by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, weather conditions, seasonality and demand for energy commodities and general economic conditions;. -  the level and timing of customer acquisition costs we incur;. 31. Table of Contents. -   the level of our operating and general and administrative expenses;. -  seasonal variations in revenues generated by our business;. -   our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. -   fluctuations in our working capital needs;. -   our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. -   restrictions contained in our debt agreements (including our Senior Credit Facility);. -    management of customer credit risk;. -  abrupt changes in regulatory policies; and,. -  other business risks affecting our cash flows.. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient cash generated from operations to pay the dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock or to pay a specific level of cash dividends to holders of our Class A common stock.. Due to the seasonality of our retail natural gas business, we generate the substantial majority of our cash available for distribution in the first and fourth quarters of each year. As a result of seasonality and our customer acquisition costs, we may not have sufficient cash available for distribution to cover quarterly dividends for certain quarters.. The amount of cash available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, and is not solely a function of profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities during a period that could significantly reduce or eliminate our cash available for distribution and, in turn, impair our ability to pay dividends to holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock during the period. Additionally, the dividends paid on Series A Preferred Stock reduce the amount of cash we have available to pay dividends on our Class A common stock.. Each new share of Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock issued increases the cash required to continue to pay cash dividends. Any Class A common stock or preferred stock (whether Series A Preferred Stock or a new series of preferred stock) that may in the future be issued to finance acquisitions, upon exercise of stock options or otherwise, would have a similar effect.. Finally, dividends to holders of our Class A common stock are paid at the discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may decrease the level of or entirely discontinue payment of dividends.. We could be prevented from paying cash dividends on the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. Holders of shares of Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock do not have a right to dividends on such shares unless declared or set aside for payment by our board of directors. Under Delaware law, cash dividends on capital stock may only be paid from \"surplus\" or, if there is no \"surplus,\" from the corporation's net profits for the then-current or the preceding fiscal year. Unless we operate profitably, our ability to pay cash dividends on the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock would require the availability of adequate \"surplus,\" which is defined as the excess, if any, of net assets (total assets less total liabilities) over capital. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock when payable, and quarterly dividends on the Class A common stock. Further, even if adequate surplus is available to pay cash dividends on the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends on the Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock.. Furthermore, no dividends on Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock shall be authorized by our board of directors or paid, declared or set aside for payment by us at any time when the authorization, payment, declaration or setting aside for payment would be unlawful under Delaware law or any other applicable law, or when the terms and provisions of any documents limiting the payment of dividends prohibit the authorization, payment, declaration or setting aside for payment thereof or would constitute a breach or a default under such document.. 32. Table of Contents. We are a holding company. Our sole material asset is our equity interest in Spark HoldCo and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from Spark HoldCo to pay dividends on the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than our equity interest in Spark HoldCo, and have no independent means of generating revenue. To the extent that we need funds and Spark HoldCo or its subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of their financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. The Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock are subordinated to our existing and future debt obligations.. The Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock are subordinated to all of our existing and future indebtedness (including indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility). Therefore, if we become bankrupt, liquidate our assets, reorganize or enter into certain other transactions, assets will be available to pay our obligations with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock only after we have paid all of our existing and future indebtedness in full. The Class A common stock will only receive assets to the extent all existing and future indebtedness and obligations under the Series A Preferred Stock is paid in full. If any of these events were to occur, there may be insufficient assets remaining to make any payments to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock or Class A common stock.. Additionally, none of our subsidiaries has guaranteed or otherwise become obligated with respect to the Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock. As a result, the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock effectively rank junior to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries, including our operating subsidiaries, and any capital stock of our subsidiaries not held by us. Accordingly, our right to receive assets from any of our subsidiaries upon our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, and the right of holders of shares of Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock to participate in those assets, is also structurally subordinated to claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. Even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of that subsidiary and any indebtedness of that subsidiary senior to that held by us.. Numerous factors may affect the trading price of the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. The trading price of the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock may depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. -   prevailing interest rates;. -   the market for similar securities;. -    general economic and financial market conditions;. -    our issuance of debt or other preferred equity securities; and. -  our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. One of the factors that will influence the price of the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock will be the distribution yield of the securities (as a percentage of the then market price of the securities) relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may lead prospective purchasers of shares of Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock to expect a higher distribution yield, and cause them to sell their Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock. Accordingly, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock to decrease.. 33. Table of Contents. In addition, over the last several years, prices of equity securities in the U.S. trading markets have been experiencing extreme price fluctuations. As a result of these and other factors, investors holding our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock may experience a decrease in the value of their securities, which could be substantial and rapid, and could be unrelated to our financial condition, performance or prospects.. There may not be an active trading market for the Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock, which may in turn reduce the market value and your ability to transfer or sell your shares of Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock.. There are no assurances that there will be an active trading market for our Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock. The liquidity of any market for the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock will depend upon the number of stockholders, our results of operations and financial condition, the market for similar securities, the interest of securities dealers in making a market in the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, and other factors. To the extent that an active trading market is not maintained, the liquidity and trading prices for the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock may be harmed.. Furthermore, because the Series A Preferred Stock does not have any stated maturity and is not subject to any sinking fund or mandatory redemption, stockholders seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their respective shares of Series A Preferred Stock in the secondary market. Active trading markets for the Series A Preferred Stock may not exist at such times, in which case the trading price of your shares of our Series A Preferred Stock could be reduced and your ability to transfer such shares could be limited.. Our Founder holds a substantial majority of the voting power of our common stock.. Holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote together as a single class on all matters presented to our stockholders for their vote or approval, except as otherwise required by applicable law or our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Our Founder controls 67.0% of the combined voting power of the Class A common stock and Class B common stock as of December 31, 2017 through his direct and indirect ownership, including Retailco, LLC, which is the holder of approximately 63.3% of the combined voting power of the Class A common stock and Class B common stock.. Retailco, LLC is entitled to act separately in its own interest with respect to its investment in us. Retailco, LLC has the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors, and thereby to control our management and affairs. In addition, Retailco, LLC is able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring Class A common stock and Class B common stock shareholder approval, including mergers and other material transactions, and is able to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our board of directors or a change in control of our company that could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company. The existence of a significant shareholder, such as our Founder, may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company.. So long as Retailco, LLC continues to control a significant amount of our common stock, it will continue to be able to strongly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, regardless of whether other stockholders believe that a potential transaction is in their own best interests. In any of these matters, the interests of Retailco, LLC may differ or conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Moreover, this concentration of stock ownership may also adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock or Series A Preferred Stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with a controlling shareholder.. As a holder of Series A Preferred Stock, you have extremely limited voting rights.. Your voting rights as a holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock are extremely limited. Our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock are the only classes of our securities carrying full voting rights. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock generally have no voting rights.. 34. Table of Contents. We are a \"controlled company\" under NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, and as such we are entitled to an exemption from certain corporate governance standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ Global Market corporate governance requirements.. We qualify as a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance standards because Retailco, LLC controls more than 50% of our voting power. Under NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements.. In light of our status as a controlled company, our board of directors has determined to take partial advantage of the controlled company exemption. Our board of directors has determined not to have a nominating and corporate governance committee and that our compensation committee will not consist entirely of independent directors. As a result, non-independent directors may among other things, appoint future members of our board of directors, resolve corporate governance issues, establish salaries, incentives and other forms of compensation for officers and other employees and administer our incentive compensation and benefit plans.. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of NASDAQ Global Select Market corporate governance requirements.. We engage in transactions with our affiliates and expect to do so in the future. The terms of such transactions and the resolution of any conflicts that may arise may not always be in our or our stockholders' best interests.. We have engaged in transactions and expect to continue to engage in transactions with affiliated companies. We have acquired companies and books of customers from our affiliates and may do so in the future. We will continue to enter into back-to-back transactions for purchases of commodities and derivatives on behalf of our affiliate. We will also continue to pay certain expenses on behalf of several of our affiliates for which we will seek reimbursement. We will also continue to share our corporate headquarters with certain affiliates. We cannot assure that our affiliates will reimburse us for the costs we have incurred on their behalf or perform their obligations under any of these contracts.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval. On October 7, 2016, we filed a registration statement under the Securities Act on Form S-3 allowing us to offer and sell, from time to time, shares of preferred stock. The registration statement was declared effective on October 20, 2016. The election by our board of directors to issue preferred stock with anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws:. -   provide for our board of directors to be divided into three classes of directors, with each class as nearly equal in number as possible, serving staggered three year terms. Our staggered board may tend to discourage a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, because it generally makes it more difficult for shareholders to replace a majority of the directors;. -  provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors;. 35. Table of Contents. -   provide that all vacancies in our board, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law or, if applicable, the rights of holders of a series of preferred stock, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;. -   provide our board of directors the ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock. This ability makes it possible for our board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of us. These and other provisions may have the effect of deferring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of our company;. -  provide that at any time after the first date upon which W. Keith Maxwell III no longer beneficially owns more than fifty percent of the outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock, any action required or permitted to be taken by the shareholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of shareholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing in lieu of a meeting of such shareholders, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock with respect to such series (prior to such time, such actions may be taken without a meeting by written consent of holders of the outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting);. -  provide that at any time after the first date upon which W. Keith Maxwell III no longer beneficially owns more than fifty percent of the outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock, special meetings of our shareholders may only be called by the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the chairman of the board (prior to such time, special meetings may also be called by our Secretary at the request of holders of record of fifty percent of the outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock);. -  provide that our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding stock entitled to vote thereon;. -  provide that our amended and restated bylaws can be amended by the board of directors; and. -   establish advance notice procedures with regard to shareholder proposals relating to the nomination of candidates for election as directors or new business to be brought before meetings of our shareholders. These procedures provide that notice of shareholder proposals must be timely given in writing to our corporate secretary prior to the meeting at which the action is to be taken. These requirements may preclude shareholders from bringing matters before the shareholders at an annual or special meeting.. In addition, in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have elected not to be subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\") regulating corporate takeovers until the date on which W. Keith Maxwell III no longer beneficially owns in the aggregate more than fifteen percent of the outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock. On and after such date, we will be subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL.. In addition, certain change of control events have the effect of accelerating the payment due under our Tax Receivable Agreement, which could be substantial and accordingly serve as a disincentive to a potential acquirer of our company.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer or other employee of ours arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of. 36. Table of Contents. incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer or other employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Future sales of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock in the public market could reduce the price of the Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, and may dilute your ownership in us.. On October 7, 2016, we filed a registration statement under the Securities Act on Form S-3 registering the primary offer and sale, from time to time, of Class A common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. The registration statement also registers the Class A common stock held by Retailco and NuDevco (including Class A common stock that may be obtained upon conversion of Class B common stock). All of the shares of Class A common stock held by Retailco and NuDevco and registered on the registration statement may be immediately resold. The registration statement was declared effective on October 20, 2016.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or securities convertible into Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances or sales of shares of our Class A common stock will have on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Class A common stock.. We may also in the future sell additional shares of preferred stock, including shares of Series A Preferred Stock, on terms that may differ from those we have previously issued. Such shares could rank on parity with or, subject to the voting rights referred to above (with respect to issuances of new series of preferred stock), senior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to distribution rights or rights upon liquidation, winding up or dissolution. The subsequent issuance of additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or the creation and subsequent issuance of additional classes of preferred stock on parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, could dilute the interests of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock, and could affect our ability to pay distributions on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on the Series A Preferred Stock. Any issuance of preferred stock that is senior to the Series A Preferred Stock would not only dilute the interests of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock, but also could affect our ability to pay distributions on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on the Series A Preferred Stock.. Furthermore, subject to compliance with the Securities Act or exemptions therefrom, employees who have received Class A common stock as equity awards may also sell their shares into the public market.. We will be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement for certain tax benefits we may claim, and the amounts of such payments could be significant.. We are party to a Tax Receivable Agreement with Spark HoldCo, NuDevco Retail Holdings and NuDevco Retail. This agreement generally provides for the payment by us to Retailco, LLC (as successor to NuDevco Retail Holdings) and NuDevco Retail of 85% of the net cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize (or are deemed to realize in certain circumstances) in future periods as a result of (i) any tax basis increase resulting from the purchase by us of SparkHoldCo units from NuDevco Retail Holdings, (ii) any tax basis increases resulting from the exchange of Spark HoldCo units for shares of Class A common stock pursuant to the Exchange Right (or resulting from an exchange of Spark HoldCo units for cash pursuant to the Cash Option) and (iii) any imputed interest deemed to be paid by us as a result of, and additional tax basis arising from, any payments we make under the Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, payments we make. 37. Table of Contents. under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be increased by any interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return. We retain the benefit of the remaining 15% of these tax savings. See Note 12 \"Income Taxes\" for further discussion.. Spark Energy, Inc. may be required to defer or partially defer any payment due to holders of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement in certain circumstances during the five-year period commencing on October 1, 2014. Following the expiration of the five-year deferral period, Spark Energy, Inc. will be obligated to pay any outstanding deferred TRA Payments. While this payment obligation is subject to certain limitations, the obligation may nevertheless be significant and could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends to the holders of our Class A common stock and Series A Preferred Stock.. The payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement are our obligations and not obligations of Spark HoldCo. For purposes of the Tax Receivable Agreement, cash savings in tax generally are calculated by comparing our actual tax liability to the amount we would have been required to pay had we not been able to utilize any of the tax benefits subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement. The term of the Tax Receivable Agreement continues until all such tax benefits have been utilized or expired, unless we exercise our right to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement by making the termination payment specified in the agreement.. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of the exchanges of Spark HoldCo units, the price of Class A common stock at the time of each exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of the taxable income we generate in the future and the tax rate then applicable, and the portion of our payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement constituting imputed interest or depletable, depreciable or amortizable basis. We expect that the payments that we will be required to make under the Tax Receivable Agreement could be substantial.. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not be conditioned upon a holder of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement having a continued ownership interest in either Spark HoldCo or us.. We did not meet the threshold coverage ratio required to fund the first payment to NuDevco Retail Holdings under the Tax Receivable Agreement during the four-quarter period ending September 30, 2015. As such, the initial payment under the Tax Receivable Agreement due in late 2015 was deferred pursuant to the terms thereof.. We met the threshold coverage ratio required to fund the second TRA Payment to Retailco and NuDevco Retail under the Tax Receivable Agreement during the four-quarter period ending September 30, 2016, resulting in an initial TRA Payment of $1.4 million becoming due in December 2016. On November 6, 2016, Retailco and NuDevco Retail granted us the right to defer the TRA Payment until May 2018. During the period of time when we have elected to defer the TRA Payment, the outstanding payment amount will accrue interest at a rate calculated in the manner provided for under the Tax Receivable Agreement.. We met the threshold coverage ratio required to fund the third TRA Payment to Retailco and NuDevco Retail under the Tax Receivable Agreement during the four-quarter period ended September 30, 2017. As such, the third payment under the Tax Receivable Agreement due in April 2018 has been classified as current in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017.. We expect to meet the threshold coverage ratio required to fund the fourth payment to Retailco and NuDevco Retail under the Tax Receivable Agreement during the four-quarter period ending September 30, 2018. The fourth payment under the Tax Receivable Agreement would be due in late 2018.. See also Note 14 \"Transactions with Affiliates.\". 38. Table of Contents. In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement.. If we elect to terminate the Tax Receivable Agreement early or it is terminated early due to certain mergers or other changes of control, we would be required to make an immediate payment equal to the present value of the anticipated future tax benefits subject to the Tax Receivable Agreement, which calculation of anticipated future tax benefits will be based upon certain assumptions and deemed events set forth in the Tax Receivable Agreement, including the assumption that we have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize such benefits and that any Spark HoldCo units that Retailco, LLC, NuDevco Retail, or their permitted transferees own on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged on the termination date. Any early termination payment may be made significantly in advance of the actual realization, if any, of such future benefits.. In these situations, our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control due to the additional transaction cost a potential acquirer may attribute to satisfying such obligations. For example, if the Tax Receivable Agreement had been terminated as of December 31, 2017, the estimated contractual termination payment would be approximately $52.4 million (calculated using a discount rate equal to the one-year London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\"), plus 200 basis points). The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payment could differ materially. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreement.. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we will determine. The holders of rights under the Tax Receivable Agreement will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreement if such basis increases or other benefits are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to any such holder will be netted against payments otherwise to be made, if any, to such holder after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances, we could make payments that are greater than our actual cash tax savings, if any, and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. We have issued preferred stock and may continue to do so, and the terms of such preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power or value of our Class A common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our Class A common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we designated a class of preferred stock as Series A Preferred Stock and issued an aggregate of 94,339 shares of Series A Preferred Stock.. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock we offer or sell could adversely impact the voting power or value of our Class A common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock, such as the Series A Preferred Stock, could affect the residual value of the Class A common stock.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. In April 2012, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (the \"JOBS Act\") was signed into law. We are classified as an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) comply with any new. 39. Table of Contents. requirements adopted by the PCAOB requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer, (iii) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or (iv) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation. We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" until as late as the last day of our 2019 fiscal year, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have $1.07 billion or more in annual revenues; (ii) the date on which we become a \"large accelerated filer\" (the fiscal year-end on which the total market value of our common equity securities held by non-affiliates is $700 million or more as of June 30); (iii) the date on which we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. As a result of our election to avail ourselves of certain provisions of the JOBS Act, the information that we provide may be different than what you may receive from other public companies in which you hold an equity interest. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to emerging growth companies, you will receive less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our securities to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our securities and the price may be more volatile.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits the fiduciary duties of one of our directors and certain of our affiliates and restricts the remedies available to our stockholders for actions taken by our Founder or certain of our affiliates that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that we renounce any interest in existing and future investments in other entities by, or the business opportunities of, NuDevco Partners, LLC, NuDevco Partners Holdings, LLC and W. Keith Maxwell III, or any of their officers, directors, agents, shareholders, members, affiliates and subsidiaries (other than a director or officer who is presented an opportunity solely in his capacity as a director or officer). Because of this provision, these persons and entities have no obligation to offer us those investments or opportunities that are offered to them in any capacity other than solely as an officer or director. If one of these persons or entities pursues a business opportunity instead of presenting the opportunity to us, we will not have any recourse against such person or entity for a breach of fiduciary duty.. The Series A Preferred Stock represent perpetual equity interests in us, and investors should not expect us to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock on the date the Series A Preferred Stock become redeemable by us or on any particular date afterwards.. The Series A Preferred Stock represent perpetual equity interests in us, and they have no maturity or mandatory redemption date and are not redeemable at the option of investors under any circumstances. As a result, unlike our indebtedness, the Series A Preferred Stock will not give rise to a claim for payment of a principal amount at a particular date. As a result, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock may be required to bear the financial risks of an investment in the Series A Preferred Stock for an indefinite period of time. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock will rank junior to all our current and future indebtedness (including indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility) and other liabilities. The Series A Preferred Stock will also rank junior to any other preferred stock ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock we may issue in the future with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us.. The Series A Preferred Stock have not been rated.. We have not sought to obtain a rating for the Series A Preferred Stock, and the Series A Preferred Stock may never be rated. It is possible, however, that one or more rating agencies might independently determine to assign a rating to the Series A Preferred Stock or that we may elect to obtain a rating of the Series A Preferred Stock in the future. In addition, we may elect to issue other securities for which we may seek to obtain a rating. If any ratings are assigned to the Series A Preferred Stock in the future or if we issue other securities with a rating, such ratings, if they are lower than market expectations or are subsequently lowered or withdrawn, could adversely affect the market for or the market value of the Series A Preferred Stock. Ratings only reflect the views of the issuing rating agency or agencies and such ratings could at any time be revised downward or withdrawn entirely at the discretion. 40. Table of Contents. of the issuing rating agency. A rating is not a recommendation to purchase, sell or hold any particular security, including the Series A Preferred Stock. Ratings do not reflect market prices or suitability of a security for a particular investor and any future rating of the Series A Preferred Stock may not reflect all risks related to us and our business, or the structure or market value of the Series A Preferred Stock.. The Change of Control Conversion Right may make it more difficult for a party to acquire us or discourage a party from acquiring us.. The Change of Control Conversion Right of the Series A Preferred Stock provided in the Certificate of Designation may have the effect of discouraging a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing certain of our change of control transactions under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price of such equity securities or that stockholders may otherwise believe is in their best interests.. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock on or after April 15, 2022, a substantial increase in the Three-Month LIBOR Rate could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and Class A common stock.. If we do not repurchase or redeem our Series A Preferred Stock on or after April 15, 2022, a substantial increase in the Three-Month LIBOR Rate could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. An increase in the dividends payable on our Series A Preferred Stock would negatively impact dividends on our and Class A common stock. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate sources of capital to repurchase or redeem the Series A Preferred Stock on or after April 15, 2022. If we are unable to repurchase or redeem the Series A Preferred Stock and our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and Class A common stock is negatively impacted, the market value of the Series A Preferred Stock and Class A common stock could be materially adversely impacted.. We may not have sufficient earnings and profits in order for dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock to be treated as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. The dividends payable by us on the Series A Preferred Stock may exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If that occurs, it will result in the amount of the dividends that exceed such earnings and profits being treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes first as a return of capital to the extent of the beneficial owner's adjusted tax basis in the Series A Preferred Stock, and the excess, if any, over such adjusted tax basis as capital gain. Such treatment will generally be unfavorable for corporate beneficial owners and may also be unfavorable to certain other beneficial owners.. You may be subject to tax if we make or fail to make certain adjustments to the conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock even though you do not receive a corresponding cash dividend.. The Conversion Rate as defined in the Certificate of Designation for the Series A Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. A failure to adjust (or to adjust adequately) the Conversion Rate after an event that increases your proportionate interest in us could be treated as a deemed taxable dividend to you. If you are a non-U.S. holder, any deemed dividend may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable treaty, which may be set off against subsequent payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. In April 2016, the Internal Revenue Service issued new proposed income tax regulations in regard to the taxability of changes in conversion rights that will apply to the Series A Preferred Stock when published in final form and may be applied to us before final publication in certain instances."
