[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We operate in a changing economic, political and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as our \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in Item 7, highlight some of these risks. The terms \"Sparton,\" \"the Company,\" \"we,\" \"us,\" and \"our\" refer to Sparton Corporation and subsidiaries.. The potential of restructuring our long-term debt may adversely affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.. We have a revolving line-of-credit facility with a group of banks which is secured by substantially all the assets of the Company that expires in September 2019. This credit facility is a component of our ongoing working capital funding. Available. 8. borrowings against this facility are limited by, among other things, an EBITDA (as determined under the agreement) to debt ratio.  Over the term of this agreement, the facility has been modified several times to allow for increases in this ratio, as well as other relief, to provide flexibility during the Company's exploration of a sale transaction.  The most recent amendment to the facility provides for an increase to the leverage ratio through September 30, 2018.  We intend to restructure this facility upon its expiration in September 2019, or sooner as conditions dictate, to provide for appropriate ongoing liquidity.  Renegotiating this facility will very likely require restructuring our long term debt and will increase the interest rates we pay on our long term debt.  Additionally, we may require a further amendment or waiver to our facility after September 30, 2018 to provide for liquidity through the closing of a potential sale transaction or through our negotiation of a new debt structure if no sale transaction is consummated.  We believe that we will be able to secure the appropriate debt structure for the Company if no sale transaction is consummated and that our bank group will provide for the necessary amendments or waivers while such a structure is negotiated. See \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" in the \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" of this Form 10-K for more information related to the Company's credit facility.. The industry is extremely competitive and we depend on continued outsourcing by OEMs.. The Military and Aerospace and Medical and Biotechnology industries are highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Our contract manufacturing services are available from many sources and we compete with numerous domestic and foreign firms. Within the Company's target market, the high-mix, low to medium volume sector of the MDS segment, there are substantially fewer competitors, but competition remains strong. Some competitors have substantially greater manufacturing, research and development, marketing or financial resources and, in some cases, have more geographically diversified international operations. The Company expects competition to intensify further as more companies enter our target markets and our customers consolidate. In the future, increased competition from large electronic component manufacturers that are selling, or may begin to sell, electronics manufacturing services may occur. Future growth will depend on our ability to win business from competitors, new outsourcing opportunities and could be limited by OEMs performing such functions internally or delaying their decision to outsource.. In some cases, the Company may not be able to offer prices as low as some competitors for a host of reasons. For example, those competitors may have lower cost structures for their services, they may be willing to accept business at lower margins in order to utilize more of their excess capacity, or they may be willing to take on business at low or even zero gross margins to gain entry into the Company's markets. Upon the occurrence of any of these events, our net sales would likely decline. Periodically, we may be operating at a cost disadvantage compared to some competitors with greater direct buying power. As a result, competitors may have a competitive advantage and obtain business from our customers.. Principal competitive factors in our targeted markets are believed to be quality, reliability, the ability to meet delivery schedules, customer service, technological sophistication, geographic location and price. During periods of recession in the Military and Aerospace and Medical and Biotechnology industries, our competitive advantages in the areas of adaptive manufacturing and responsive customer service may be of reduced importance due to increased price sensitivity. We also expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products or services, to reduce their current products or service sales prices and to introduce new products or services that may offer greater performance and improved pricing. Any of these could cause a decline in sales, loss of market acceptance of our products or services, profit margin compression or loss of market share.. Our operating results are subject to general economic conditions and may vary significantly from period to period due to a number of factors.. We are subject to inflation, interest rate changes, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, the effects of governmental plans to manage economic conditions and other national and global economic occurrences beyond our control. Such factors, economic weakness and constrained customer spending have resulted in the past and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates.. We can experience significant fluctuations in our annual and quarterly results of operations. In addition to general economic conditions, other factors that contribute to these fluctuations are our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes and costs, as well as the level of capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities and associated fixed costs, in order to maintain or increase profitability. We rely on our customers' demands, which can change dramatically, sometimes with little notice. Such factors also could affect our results of operations in the future.. Customer cancellations, reductions or delays could adversely affect our operating results.. We generally do not obtain long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel orders, delay the delivery of orders or release orders for fewer products than we previously anticipated for a variety of reasons, including decreases in demand for their products and services. Such changes by a significant customer, by a group of customers, or by a. 9. single customer whose production is material to an individual facility could seriously harm results of operations in that period. In addition, since much of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand would adversely affect our margins and operating income. Although we are always seeking new opportunities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to replace deferred, reduced or canceled orders.. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders with much certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. Additionally, we are often required to place materials orders from vendors, some of which are non-cancelable, based on an expected level of customer volume. If actual demand is higher than anticipated, we may be required to increase staffing and other expenses in order to meet such demand of our customers. Alternatively, anticipated orders from our customers may be delayed or fail to materialize, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. Such customer order fluctuations and deferrals have had a material adverse effect on us in the past and we may experience similar effects in the future.. Such order changes could cause a delay in the repayment to us for inventory expenditures we incurred in preparation for the customer's orders or, in certain circumstances, require us to return the inventory to our suppliers, resell the inventory to another customer or continue to hold the inventory. In some cases, excess material resulting from longer order lead time is a risk due to the potential of order cancellation or design changes by customers. Additionally, dramatic changes in circumstances for a customer could also negatively impact the carrying value of our inventory for that customer.. We are dependent on a few large customers; the loss of such customers or reduction in their demand could substantially harm our business and operating results.. For fiscal year 2018, our ten largest customers, including the U.S. Navy, accounted for approximately 50% of total net sales. The U.S. Navy, an ECP customer through the Company's ERAPSCO agreement, represented 25% of our total net sales. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers, but we cannot ensure that present or future large customers will not terminate, significantly change, reduce or delay their manufacturing arrangements with us. Because our major customers represent such a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers or reduced sales to these customers could negatively impact our business.. The U.S. Navy generally has the ability to terminate its contracts within the ECP segment, in whole or in part, without prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. If any of these U.S. Navy contracts were to be terminated, the Company would generally be protected by provisions covering reimbursement for costs incurred on the contracts and profit on those costs, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed.. We are partner to a 50/50 joint venture agreement, the ERAPSCO agreement, with USSI, currently the only other major producer of U.S. derivative sonobuoys. If USSI were to terminate this joint venture, the Company would be required to return to independent bidding and production for the U.S. Navy and other foreign governments that meet Department of State licensing requirements for sonobuoy business. If this were to happen, it is possible that the Company's future results could be negatively impacted. In March 2018, as a result of the DOJ's rejection of the proposed merger between Sparton and Ultra, USSI's parent, the Navy informed Sparton that Sparton and USSI should enhance their ability to independently develop, produce and sell sonobuoys and over time work toward the elimination of the joint venture for such activities. Starting with the 2014 U.S. government fiscal year, the U.S. Navy competitively bid sonobuoy contracts, potentially allowing additional competitors to vie for this business. The Company is aware that the U.S. Navy has funded a competitor for the qualification of one future sonobuoy variant that is currently not in production. In July of 2018, the Navy attempted to exclude ERAPSCO from the competitive range for Solicitation No. N00019-19-R-0002 for the GFY 19-23 AN/SSQ-125A (the \"Q-125A\") production sonobuoy. ERAPSCO subsequently filed a protest with the GAO, and, as a result of that protest, in August 2018, the Navy took corrective action to restore ERAPSCO's ability to participate in the bid process. See also \"ITEM 1. Business\" of this Form 10-K for more information and a discussion of the U.S. Navy's view of the joint venture and the activities related to the Q-125A bid process. While the Company believes that there are significant barriers to entry into the sonobuoy market, if a new competitor was able to successfully develop the necessary technical capabilities and gain entry into the market space, the Company's future results could be negatively impacted.. We rely on the continued growth and financial stability of our customers. Adverse changes in the end markets they serve can reduce demand from our customers in those markets and/or make customers in these end markets more price sensitive. Furthermore, mergers or restructurings among our customers or our customers' customers could increase concentration or reduce total demand as the combined entities rationalize their business and consolidate their suppliers. Future developments, particularly in those end markets which account for more significant portions of our revenues, could harm our business and our results of operations. If one or more of our customers experiences financial difficulty and is unable to pay for the services provided, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our customers seek bankruptcy protection, they could act to terminate all or a portion of their business with us, originate new business with our competitors and terminate or assign our long-term supply agreements. Any loss of revenue from our major customers, including the non-. 10. payment or late payment of our invoices, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in U.S. trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may adversely impact our operating results.. The U.S. government has indicated its intent to adopt a new approach to trade policy and in some cases to renegotiate, or potentially terminate, certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. It has also initiated tariffs on certain foreign goods, including electronic components, manufactured parts and other raw materials utilized by the Company. Changes in U.S. trade policy could result in one or more of U.S. trading partners adopting responsive trade policy making it more difficult or costly for us to import our products from those countries. We may not be able to recoup the cost of tariffs and other increased costs through increased prices to our customers or other means, which will result in lower margins. Additionally, as a result of increased prices, the demand from our customers for products and services may be diminished, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Congressional budgetary constraints or reallocations can reduce our government sales.. Our U.S. government contracts have many inherent risks that could adversely impact our financial results. Future governmental sales could be affected by a change in defense spending by the U.S. government, or by changes in spending allocation that could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed or terminated, which could adversely affect our financial results. The Company's U.S. governmental sales are funded by the federal budget. Changes in negotiations for program funding levels or unforeseen world events can interrupt the funding for a program or contract.. Our current use of performance based billings within U.S. government contracts may not continue.. Our current contracts with the U.S. Navy include provisions for certain billing and collection of funds from the U.S.  Government in advance of related inventory purchases and incurrence of manufacturing expenses. These contractual provisions are an integral part of our capital and liquidity profile. While we have other sources of liquidity including, but not limited to, our operations, existing cash balances and our revolving line-of-credit and we believe we have sufficient liquidity for our anticipated needs over the next 12 months, no assurances regarding liquidity can be made. The discontinuance of performance based billing provisions from future U.S. Navy contracts would require us to fund the working capital requirements related to these contracts from other sources and otherwise could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company and its customers may be unable to keep current with technological changes.. Our customers participate in markets that have rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and relatively short product life cycles. The introduction of products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards can render existing products obsolete or unmarketable. Our success depends upon our customers' ability to enhance existing products and to develop and introduce new products, on a timely and cost-effective basis, that keep pace with technological developments and emerging standards and to address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. There is no assurance that our customers will do so and any failure to do so could substantially harm our customers and us.. Additionally, our future success will depend upon our ability to maintain and enhance our own technological capabilities, develop and market manufacturing services and products which meet changing customer needs and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. If we are unable to do so, business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred programs can adversely affect our operating results and may not be recoverable.. Start-up costs, the management of labor and equipment resources in connection with new programs and new customer relationships, and the need to estimate the extent and timing of required resources can adversely affect our profit margins and operating results. These factors are particularly evident with the introduction of new products and programs. The effects of these start-up costs and inefficiencies can also occur when new facilities are opened or programs are transferred from one facility to another.. If new programs or customer relationships are terminated or delayed, our operating results may be harmed, particularly in the near term. We may not be able to recoup our start-up costs or quickly replace these anticipated new program revenues.. 11. We depend on limited or single source suppliers for some critical components; the inability to obtain components as required, with favorable purchase terms, could harm our business.. A significant portion of our costs are related to electronic components purchased to produce our products. In some cases our customers dictate that we purchase particular components from a single or limited number of suppliers. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production and thus delay shipments to customers and the associated revenue of all products using that component. This could cause the Company to experience a reduction in sales, increased inventory levels and costs and could adversely affect relationships with existing and prospective customers. In the past, we have secured sufficient allocations of constrained components so that revenue was not materially impacted. The Company believes that alternative suppliers are available to provide the components, including unique components, necessary to manufacture our customers' products. If, however, we are unable to procure necessary components under favorable purchase terms, including at favorable prices and with the order lead times needed for the efficient and profitable operation of our factories, our results of operations could suffer.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo (\"DRC\") and adjoining countries. As a result, the SEC established annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use \"conflict\" minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. These requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacturing of our electrical components. As a result, we may not be able to obtain products at competitive prices. We have had additional costs associated with complying with the new due diligence procedures as required by the SEC. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures as we implement them. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier.. Our stock price may be volatile, and the stock is thinly traded, which may cause investors to lose most or part of their investment in our common stock.. The stock market may experience volatility that is often unrelated to the operating performance of any particular company or companies. If market-sector or industry-based fluctuations occur, our stock price could decline regardless of our actual operating performance and investors could lose a substantial part of their investments. Moreover, if an active public market for our common stock is not sustained in the future, it may be difficult to resell such stock. Generally, our stock is thinly traded. When trading volumes are low, a relatively small buy or sell order can result in a relatively large change in the trading price of our common stock and investors may not be able to sell their securities at a favorable price.. Failure to attract and retain key personnel and skilled associates could hurt operations.. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of key management personnel. While we have employment contracts in place with several of our executive officers, we nevertheless cannot be assured that we will retain our key employees and the loss of service of any of these officers or key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business growth and operating results.. Our future success will require an ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Competition for such key personnel is intense and we cannot be assured that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. We cannot make assurances that we will not have departures of key personnel in the future. Changes in the cost of providing employee benefits, including changes in health care costs and investment returns on plan assets and discount rates used to calculate pension liabilities, could lead to increased costs in any of our operations.. Certain of our U.S. government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with U.S. government requirements. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, then a customer requiring classified work could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and employ personnel with specified types of security clearances.. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively bid on expiring contracts.. Adverse regulatory developments could harm our business.. 12. Our business operates and certain of our customers' businesses operate, in heavily regulated environments. We must manage the risk of changes in or adverse actions under applicable law or in our regulatory authorizations, licenses and permits, governmental security clearances, government procurement regulations or other legal rights in order to operate our business, manage our work force or import and export goods and services as needed. We also face the risk of other adverse regulatory actions, compliance costs or governmental sanctions. The regulations and regulatory bodies include, but are not limited to, the following: the Federal Acquisition Regulations, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act and the False Statements Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations.. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations, rules and approvals or misconduct by any of our employees could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the loss of security clearances, the loss of our government contracts or our suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government in general, any of which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also additional risk factors relating to U.S. government contract audits, securities laws regulations, environmental law regulations and foreign law regulations.. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, which expose us to potential liability.. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, provincial, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource, Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as analogous state and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws is a significant consideration for us because we use various hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. We may be liable under environmental laws for the cost of cleaning up properties we own or operate if they are or become contaminated by the release of hazardous materials, regardless of whether we caused the release, even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws. In the event of contamination or violation of environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages including fines, penalties and the costs of remedial actions and could also be subject to revocation of our discharge permits. Any such penalties or revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby harming our business. In addition, such regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations, including expenses associated with the recall of any non-compliant product.. The Company has been involved with ongoing environmental remediation since the early 1980's related to one of its former manufacturing facilities, located in Albuquerque, New Mexico (\"Coors Road\"). Uncertainties associated with environmental remediation contingencies are pervasive and often result in wide ranges of reasonably possible outcomes. Estimates developed in the early stages of remediation can vary significantly. Normally a finite estimate of cost does not become fixed and determinable at a specific point in time. Rather, the costs associated with environmental remediation become estimable over a continuum of events and activities that help to frame and define a liability. Factors which cause uncertainties for the Company include, but are not limited to, the effectiveness of the current work plans in achieving targeted results and proposals of regulatory agencies for desired methods and outcomes. It is possible that cash flows and results of operations could be materially affected by the impact of changes associated with the ultimate resolution of this contingency. At July 1, 2018, the Company estimates that it is reasonably possible, but not probable, that future environmental remediation costs associated with the Company's past operations at the Coors Road property, in excess of amounts already recorded, could be up to $2.3 million before income taxes over the next twelve years, with this amount expected to be offset by related reimbursement from the United States Department of Energy, for a net amount of $1.4 million.. The Company and its subsidiaries are also involved in certain other existing compliance issues with the EPA and various state agencies, including being named as a potentially responsible party at several sites. Potentially responsible parties (\"PRPs\") can be held jointly and severally liable for the clean-up costs at any specific site. The Company's past experience, however, has indicated that when it has contributed relatively small amounts of materials or waste to a specific site relative to other PRPs, its ultimate share of any clean-up costs has been minor. Based upon available information, the Company believes it has contributed only small amounts to those sites in which it is currently viewed as a PRP and that reasonably possible losses related to these compliance issues are immaterial.. The occurrence of litigation in which we could be named as a defendant is unpredictable.. Our business activities expose us to risks of litigation with respect to our customers, suppliers, creditors, shareholders, product liability, intellectual property infringement or environmental-related matters. We may incur significant expense to defend or otherwise address current or future claims. Any litigation, even a claim without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Although we maintain insurance policies, we cannot make assurances that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material. 13. judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all.. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may be adversely affected.. Our success can be impacted by our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. However, a significant portion of our technology is not patented and we may be unable or may not seek to obtain patent protection for this technology. Moreover, existing U.S. legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights offer only limited protection, may not provide us with any competitive advantages and may be challenged by third parties. The laws of countries other than the United States may be even less protective of intellectual property rights. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, then our business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our business and results of operations.. Our operations could be subject to natural disasters, disease and other business disruptions, including earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, fires, pandemic outbreaks and other natural or manmade disasters, which could seriously harm our financial condition and increase our expenses. In the past, hurricanes have adversely impacted the performance of two of our production facilities located in Florida. We have a production facility outside Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. This area, in the tropics and close to the sea, may be vulnerable to storms, floods and typhoons.. Increased international political instability, evidenced by threats and occurrence of terrorist attacks may hinder our ability to do business. The political environment in communist countries can contribute to the threat of instability. While we have not been adversely affected as yet due to this exposure, one of our facilities is based in Vietnam, which is a communist country. These events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economies, particularly customer confidence and spending, which in turn could affect our revenue and results of operations. The impact of these events on the volatility of the U.S. and world financial markets could increase the volatility of our securities and may limit the capital resources available to us, our customers and our suppliers.. Operations outside of the United States may be affected by legal and regulatory risks and government reviews, inquiries or investigations could harm the Company's business.. The Company's operations in both Vietnam and Canada and the business it conducts outside the United States are subject to risks relating to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in the United States as well as in local jurisdictions. Additionally, there is a risk of potentially higher incidence of fraud or corruption in certain foreign jurisdictions and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls. From time to time, the Company may conduct internal investigations and compliance reviews to ensure that the Company is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, the Company could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. Any determination that the Company's operations or activities are not in compliance with United States laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or various international laws and regulations could expose the Company to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm the business and reputation of the Company.. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a reduction in the value of our common stock.. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\"), the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the companies' internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. The report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company's financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting, if the company's public equity float remains above certain thresholds.. We are continuing our comprehensive efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this could lead us to issue a financial restatement or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations to the SEC, or could result in a finding by our independent auditors of a significant deficiency or material weakness in our controls over financial reporting, which, in turn, could result in an adverse reaction to our stock in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.. 14. The efficiency of our operations could be adversely affected by disruptions to our information technology (IT) services and cyber incidents.. We rely in part on various IT systems to manage our operations and to provide analytical information to management. In addition, a significant portion of internal communications, as well as communication with customers and suppliers, depends on information technology. We are exposed to the risk of cyber incidents in the normal course of business and we have been the subject of such cyber incidents. Cyber incidents may be deliberate attacks for the theft of intellectual property, money or sensitive information (including our customers) or may be the result of unintentional events. Like most companies, the Company's information technology systems may be vulnerable to interruption due to a variety of events beyond the Company's control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power and/or telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. The Company has technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate the Company's risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to ensure that the Company's operations are not disrupted. Potential consequences of a material cyber incident include damage to our reputation, litigation, inefficiencies or production down-times, increased cyber security protection and remediation costs, including potential exposure to customers. Such consequences could have a negative impact on our ability to meet customers' orders, resulting in a delay or decrease to our revenue and a reduction to our operating margins.. U.S. government audits and investigations could adversely affect our business.. Federal government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Defense Contract Management Agency, routinely audit and evaluate government contracts and government contractors' administrative processes and systems. These agencies review the Company's performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, financial capability and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of the Company's internal control systems and policies, including the Company's purchasing, accounting, estimating, compensation and management information processes and systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If an audit or investigation of our business were to uncover improper or illegal activities, then we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, responding to governmental audits or investigations may involve significant expenses and divert management attention. If any of the forgoing were to occur, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could increase operating costs.. A portion of the Company's operations and some customers are in foreign locations. While a significant portion of the Company's transactions are in U.S. dollars, some transactions occur in other currencies. Currency exchange rates fluctuate on a daily basis as a result of a number of factors and cannot be easily predicted. Volatility in the U.S. dollar could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition and could affect our ability to maintain or grow our revenues with international customers. Additionally, currency exchange fluctuations related to the remeasurement of the Company's Canadian and Vietnamese financial statements into U.S. dollars could have a negative impact on our reported results. The Company currently does not use financial instruments to hedge foreign currency fluctuation and unexpected losses could occur from future fluctuations in exchange rates."
