[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The Company faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, the Company's financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of the Company's common stock could decline. This discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All of these forward-looking statements are affected by the risk factors discussed in this item and this discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the discussion of forward-looking statements, which appears at the beginning of this report.. Business and Operational Risks. The Company operates in an extremely competitive industry. Many of the Company's competitors are much larger and may be able to compete more effectively.. The Company's Food Distribution and Retail segments have many competitors, including regional and national grocery distributors, large chain stores that have integrated wholesale and retail operations, mass merchandisers, e-commerce providers, deep discount retailers, limited assortment stores and wholesale membership clubs. The Company's Military segment faces competition from large national and regional food distributors and smaller distributors. Many of the Company's competitors have greater resources than the Company.. Industry consolidation, alternative store formats, nontraditional competitors and e-commerce have contributed to market share losses for traditional grocery stores. The Company's Food Distribution, Military and Retail segments are primarily focused on traditional retail grocery trade, which faces competition from faster growing alternative retail channels, such as dollar stores, discount supermarket chains, Internet-based retailers and meal-delivery services. The Company expects these trends to continue. If the Company is not successful in competing with these alternative channels, or growing sales into such channels, its business or financial results may be adversely impacted.. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate the assets of Caito Foods Service (\"Caito\") and Blue Ribbon Transport (\"BRT\"), and the Company may incur significant costs to integrate and support these and other assets it acquires.. In January 2017, the Company acquired the assets of Caito and its affiliate, BRT. The integration of acquired assets requires significant time and resources, and the Company may not manage these processes successfully. As part of this acquisition, the Company acquired a new Fresh Kitchen facility that was in the process of being constructed. The Fresh Kitchen had no history of operations, and the Company experienced delays in commencing its operation and achieving efficient levels of production volume. The Company expects that the Fresh Kitchen will not be profitable in the short-term, and there is no guarantee it will be profitable in the long-term. In addition, some grocery retailers previously serviced by Caito discontinued their purchases following the Company's acquisition of the Caito assets. The Company is making investments of resources to support the acquired Caito and BRT businesses and replace lost volume, which will result in significant ongoing operating expenses and may divert resources and management attention from other areas of the business. If the Company fails to successfully integrate these assets and develop new business opportunities, it may not realize the benefits expected from the transaction and its business may not perform to expectations.. -11-. The Company's private brand program for U.S. military commissaries may not achieve the desired results.. In December 2016, the Defense Commissary Agency (\"DeCA\" or \"the Agency\"), which operates U.S. military commissaries worldwide, competitively awarded the Company the contract to support and supply products for the Agency's new private brand product program. Private brand products have not previously been offered in the Agency's commissaries. The Company has invested and will continue to invest significant resources as it partners with DeCA to develop the program, and there is no guarantee of its success. The Company expects that DeCA will face significant competition in each product category from national brands that are familiar to consumers. If the Agency is unable to drive traffic and business at the commissaries by offering one-stop shopping for military customers through a combination of both national and private brand offerings, then both DeCA and the Company may be unable to achieve expected returns from this program, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The success of the program will depend in part on factors beyond the Company's control, including the actions of the Agency.. The Company may not be able to implement its strategy of growth through acquisitions.. Part of the Company's growth strategy involves selected acquisitions of additional distribution operations, and to a lesser extent, retail grocery stores. Given the recent consolidation activity and limited number of potential acquisition targets within the food industry, the Company may not be able to identify suitable targets for acquisition and may make acquisitions which do not achieve the desired level of profitability or sales. Additionally, because the Company operates in the Food Distribution business, future acquisitions of retail grocery stores could result in the Company competing with its independent retailers and could adversely affect existing business relationships with those customers. As a result, the Company may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, complete acquisitions or obtain the necessary financing and this may adversely affect the Company's ability to grow profitably.. Substantial operating losses may occur if the customers to whom the Company extends credit or for whom the Company guarantees loans or lease obligations fail to repay the Company.. From time to time, the Company may advance funds, extend credit and lend money to certain independent retailers and guarantee loan or lease obligations of certain customers. The Company seeks to obtain security interest and other credit support in connection with these arrangements but the collateral may not be sufficient to cover the Company's exposure. Greater than expected losses from existing or future credit extensions, loans, guarantee commitments or sublease arrangements could negatively and materially impact the Company's operating results and financial condition.. Changes in relationships with the Company's vendor base may adversely affect its business, margins, and profitability.. The Company sources the products it sells from a wide variety of vendors. The Company generally does not have long-term written contracts with its major suppliers that would require them to continue supplying it with merchandise. The Company depends on its vendors for appropriate allocation of merchandise, assortments of products, operation of vendor-focused shopping experiences within its stores, and funding for various forms of promotional allowances. There has been significant consolidation in the food industry, and this consolidation may continue to the Company's commercial disadvantage. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on the Company's revenues and profitability.. Disruptions to the Company's information technology systems, including security breaches and cyber-attacks, could negatively affect the Company's business.. The Company has complex information technology (\"IT\") systems that are important to its business operations. The Company gathers and stores sensitive information, including personal information about its customers, vendors and associates, and other proprietary or sensitive information. The Company could incur significant losses due to disruptions in its systems and business if it were to experience difficulties accessing data stored in its IT systems or if the sensitive information stored is compromised by third parties.. Although the Company has implemented security programs and disaster recovery facilities and procedures, cyber threats evolve rapidly and are becoming more sophisticated. Despite the Company's efforts to secure its information and systems, cyber attackers may defeat the security measures and compromise the personal information of customers, associates, vendors and other sensitive information. Associate error, faulty password management or other problems may compromise the security measures and result in a breach of the Company's information systems, systems disruptions, data theft or other criminal activity. This could result in a loss of sales or profits or cause the Company to incur significant costs to restore its systems or to reimburse third parties for damages.. Threats to security or the occurrence of severe weather conditions, natural disasters or other unforeseen events could harm the Company's business.. The Company's business could be severely impacted by severe weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events that could affect the warehouse and transportation infrastructure used by the Company and its vendors to supply the Company's corporate owned retail stores, and Food Distribution and Military customers. While the Company believes it has adopted commercially reasonable precautions, insurance programs, and contingency plans; the damage or destruction of Company facilities could compromise its ability to distribute products and generate sales. Unseasonable weather conditions that impact growing conditions and the availability of food could also adversely affect sales, profits and asset values.. -12-. Impairment charges for goodwill or other long-lived assets could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company is required to perform an annual impairment test for goodwill and other long-lived tangible and intangible assets in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. Testing goodwill and other assets for impairment requires management to make significant estimates about the Company's future performance, cash flows, and other assumptions that can be affected by potential changes in economic, industry or market conditions, business operations, competition, or  -  for goodwill  -  the Company's stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of the Company's future performance, may affect the fair value of goodwill or other assets. This could result in the Company recording a non-cash impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination of impairment is made. The Company cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other assets become impaired, the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. It may be difficult for the Company to attract and retain well-qualified associates, which would adversely affect the Company's profitability and growth.. Recent low levels of unemployment have made it increasingly difficult to attract and retain qualified associates, and have caused upward pressure on wages. If the Company is unable to attract and retain quality associates to meet its needs, the Company could be required to increase its compensation offering, reduce staffing below optimal levels, or rely more on higher-cost third-party providers, which could adversely affect the Company's profitability and growth. The Company's success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of senior management. The loss of any key member of the Company's management team may prevent it from implementing its business plans in a timely manner. The Company cannot assure that successors of comparable ability will be identified and appointed and that the Company's business will not be adversely affected.. Legal, Regulatory and Legislative Risks. The Company's Military segment is dependent upon domestic and international military operations. A change in the military commissary system, including its supply chain, or a change in the level of governmental funding, could negatively impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Because the Company's Military segment sells and distributes grocery products to military commissaries and exchanges in the United States and overseas, any material changes in the commissary system, the level of governmental funding to DeCA, military staffing levels, or locations of bases, or DeCA's supply chain may have a corresponding impact on the sales and operating performance of this segment. These changes could include privatization of some or all of the military commissary system, relocation or consolidation of commissaries and exchanges, base closings, troop redeployments or consolidations in the geographic areas containing commissaries and exchanges served by the Company, or a reduction in the number of persons having access to the commissaries and exchanges. Mandated reductions in the government expenditures, including those imposed as a result of a sequestration, may impact the level of funding to DeCA and could have a material impact on the Company's operations. If DeCA were to make material changes to its supply chain model, for example by limiting distribution authorization, then the Company's Military segment could be affected.. Product recalls or other safety concerns regarding the Company's products could harm the Company's business.. It is sometimes necessary for the Company to recall unsafe, contaminated or defective products. Recall costs can be material and the Company might not be able to recover costs from its suppliers. Concerns regarding the safety of food products sold by the Company could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from the Company, or to seek alternative sources of supply for some or all of their food needs, even if the basis for concern is outside of the Company's control. Any loss of confidence on the part of the Company's customers would be difficult and costly to overcome. Any real or perceived issue regarding the safety of any food or drug items sold by the Company, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company's acquisition of Caito has expanded its food production capabilities and ability to offer fresh fruits and vegetables. The Company may need to recall such products if they become adulterated or if they are mislabeled, and the Company may be liable if the consumption of its products causes injury to consumers. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of inventory, and lost sales. A significant product recall or product liability claim could also result in adverse publicity, damage to the Company's reputation, and a loss of confidence in the safety and quality of its products.. -13-. A number of the Company's associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and unions may attempt to organize additional associates.. Approximately 29% and 12% of the Company's associates in its Food Distribution and Military business segments, respectively, are covered by collective bargaining agreements (\"CBAs\") which expire between January 2019 and February 2021. The Company expects that rising healthcare, pension and other employee benefit costs, among other issues, will continue to be important topics of negotiation with the labor unions. Upon the expiration of the Company's CBAs, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if the Company is unable to negotiate an acceptable contract with the labor unions. This could significantly disrupt the Company's operations. Further, if the Company is unable to control healthcare and pension costs provided for in the CBAs, the Company may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations.. While the Company believes that relations with its associates are good, the Company may continue to see additional union organizing campaigns. The potential for unionization could increase as any new related legislation or regulations are passed. The Company respects its associates' right to unionize or not to unionize. However, the unionization of a significant portion of the Company's workforce could increase the Company's overall costs at the affected locations and adversely affect its flexibility to run its business in the most efficient manner to remain competitive or acquire new business and could adversely affect its results of operations by increasing its labor costs or otherwise restricting its ability to maximize the efficiency of its operations.. Costs related to multi-employer pension plans and other postretirement plans could increase.. The Company contributes to the Central States Southeast and Southwest Pension Fund (\"Central States Plan\" or \"the Plan\"), a multi-employer pension plan, based on obligations arising from its CBAs with Teamsters locals 406 and 908. SpartanNash does not administer or control this Plan, and the Company has relatively little control over the level of contributions the Company is required to make. Currently, the Central States Plan is underfunded and in critical and declining status, and as a result, contributions are scheduled to increase. The Company expects that contributions to this Plan will be subject to further increases. Benefit levels and related issues will continue to create collective bargaining challenges. The amount of any increase or decrease in its required contributions to this Plan will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, the actions taken by the trustees who manage the Plan, governmental regulations, actual return on investment of Plan assets, the continued viability and contributions of other contributing employers, and the potential payment of withdrawal liability should the Company choose to exit a geographic area, among other factors.. The Company also maintains defined benefit retirement plans for certain of its associates that do not participate in multi-employer pension plans. These plans are frozen. Expenses associated with the defined benefit plans may significantly increase due to changes to actuarial assumptions or investment returns on plan assets that are less favorable than projected. In addition, changes in the Company's funding status could adversely affect the Company's financial position."
