[1] "ITEM 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRISK FACTORS. Set forth below are all material known risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or cause our actual results to differ materially from results contemplated by forward-looking statements contained in this report or other public statements we may make. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business. Shareholders and prospective investors should carefully consider and evaluate all of our risk factors. However, many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or foresee, and undue reliance should not be put on forward-looking statements. Risk and other forward-looking factors, including future or forecasted results or events, may or may not ultimately be found correct. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates contained in future periodic reports on Form 10-Q, Form 10-K or other forms we file with the SEC.. Bad weather or postponement or cancellation of motorsports events could adversely affect us.. We promote outdoor motorsports events. Weather conditions surrounding these events affect sales of tickets, concessions and souvenirs, driving schools and track rentals, among other things. Although we sell many tickets in advance of our events, poor weather conditions can have a material effect on our results of operations, particularly because we promote a limited number of premier events. Due to inclement weather conditions, we may be required to reschedule a race event to the next raceable day. Poor weather leading up to, or forecast for a weekend that surrounds, a race can negatively impact advance sales and walk-up admissions and food, beverage and souvenir sales. Poor weather can affect current periods as well as successive events in future periods because consumer demand can be affected by the success or experience of past events.. 12. Table of Contents. When events are delayed, postponed or rescheduled because of poor weather (or national security concerns, natural disasters or other reasons), we typically incur additional operating expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as generate lower admissions, food, beverage and souvenir revenues. If an event is cancelled, we would incur expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event, as well as losing associated event revenues, including live broadcast revenues, to the extent such losses were not covered by insurance. If a cancelled event is part of the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup, Xfinity or Camping World Series, amounts we receive from television revenues for all of our NASCAR events in the series that experienced cancellation could be reduced. This would occur if, as a result of cancellation and without regard to whether the cancelled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in television revenues in excess of amounts scheduled to be paid to the promoter of the cancelled event.. Lack of competitiveness in Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series races or closeness of championship points races, the popularity of race car drivers or changes made by NASCAR on conducting, promoting and racing as a series sanctioning body, can significantly impact our operating results.. A lack of competitiveness in Monster Energy Cup Series races or the closeness of the championship points race, race car driver popularity, and the success of NASCAR racing in general, in any particular racing season can significantly impact our operating results. Various performance factors of racing competitors, particularly popular drivers, can affect on-track competition and the appeal of racing. New or changed racing teams could be formed with drivers that generate less fan interest or race less competitively. As further discussed in “Business – Industry Overview”, NASCAR as a sanctioning body periodically implements new rules or technical and other required changes for race teams and drivers and event promoters in attempts to increase safety, racing competition, and fan and media interest, among other things. These and other periodically implemented changes may or may not become more successful or popular with fans. Such factors can affect attendance and other event related revenues for our NASCAR and other racing events, corporate interest, media attention, and promotional marketing appeal, as well as other events surrounding the weekends races are promoted. Rule changes can increase operating costs that we may or may not be able to control. There can be no assurance these factors will not adversely impact our attendance or other event related revenues, or that our operating costs will not be adversely impacted by sanctioning body changes in any particular season.. The United States and global economies, disruptions in the financial markets and geopolitical events could have a significant adverse impact on consumer and corporate spending and our business. Consumer and corporate spending can significantly impact our operating results, and national or local catastrophes, elevated terrorism alerts, fear of violence or attacks at large event gatherings, outbreaks of infectious diseases or natural disasters could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results.. Our business depends on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. High or higher underemployment or unemployment, food and health care costs, income, sales, property and other tax rates, tight credit markets, difficult residential real estate and mortgage markets, and stock market volatility, among other factors, could dampen consumer and corporate spending, including adversely impacting disposable income and recreational and entertainment spending. Many fans from other countries, such as Canada, travel to our speedways, particularly Las Vegas and New Hampshire. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates can impact consumer spending sentiment and travel decisions, particularly when unfavorable relative to US currency such as Canada’s at this time. Such reduced spending may continue to negatively impact our admissions, sponsorship, advertising and hospitality spending, concession and souvenir sales demand, luxury suite, and other event related revenues, with related effects on our motorsports and non-motorsports activities and future revenues, profitability and cash flows. These and other similar factors could have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations.. While the direction and strength of the United States economy are improving, uncertainty remains as to its recovery strength and duration, as well as for other foreign countries. State and federal budgetary deficits could result in government responses such as higher consumer and corporate income or other tax rates. Governmental spending deficits or actions by the Federal Reserve Bank could also lead to higher interest rates, inflation increases and difficult borrowing conditions for consumers and corporate customers. Significant changes or uncertainty in governmental policies, regulatory environments, spending sentiment, and many other factors and conditions, could adversely impact our operations. Changes in governmental taxing, regulatory, spending and other policies could significantly impact consumer spending, economic recovery and our future results. The economy or financial and credit markets might destabilize or worsen.. Other factors that can affect consumer and corporate spending include hurricanes, flooding, earthquakes and other natural disasters, elevated terrorism alerts or fear of violence, terrorist attacks, military actions, air travel concerns, and geopolitical events, as well as various industry and other business conditions. Incidents such as the 2017 Las Vegas shootings, 2015 Paris attacks and 2013 Boston bombings, or outbreaks of infectious diseases such as Ebola, Zika or other pandemics, can affect public concerns regarding large gatherings of people, including travel to large populated venues or locations. Additional incidents could have a particularly significant negative impact on attendance and other event related spending by individuals or corporate fans and customers who have or might have planned to attend one or more of our racing events. Such factors or incidents, even if not directly impacting us, can disrupt or otherwise adversely impact the financial results, spending sentiment and interest of our present or potential customers. These factors can adversely impact local, regional and national consumer and corporate spending sentiment. Each of these aforementioned negative factors, and particularly when combined, may adversely impact corporate and individual customer spending and have a material adverse impact on our future operating results.. 13. Table of Contents. We compete with improving and expanding non-motorsports related media coverage and content by network and cable broadcasters, and with ongoing improvements in high-definition television technology - both of which are increasingly influenced by changing demographics and could adversely affect us.. Similar to what other motorsports competitors and many other sporting venues are experiencing, we believe that a portion of the decline in attendance over the past few years can be attributed to changing demographics. While our long-time fans are more important to us than ever, we recognize the importance of capturing the next generation of race fans as the average age of the general population and our traditional fan base increase, and multicultural consumer groups grow. New and expanding entertainment media options and content are continually being developed and marketed to attract the changing demographics, particularly outside of motorsports. And as importantly, we are increasingly competing with improving and expanding non-motorsports related media coverage and content by network and cable broadcasters, and with ongoing improvements in high-definition television technology and increasing DVR use and on-demand content, particularly for Monster Energy Cup and Xfinity Series racing events.. We, NASCAR and the television broadcasters continue to make sizable investments in new and expanding marketing initiatives and leading-edge facility and technology improvements that appeal to younger fans and the changing demographics. We are increasingly investing in new marketing approaches and technology to foster attendance by families, particularly those with younger children and teenagers. We are also increasingly investing in social media, web-based applications and interactive digital systems to enhance pre-race and during-the-race entertainment experiences that appeal to our younger demographic markets. Some of our recent larger investments include installation of three large high-definition video boards at BMS, CMS and TMS. There can be no assurance that our various initiatives, and those of NASCAR or the television broadcasters, individually or in combination, will successfully increase attendance, event related revenues or corporate or individual marketing appeal or interest in our sport or venues.. Strong competition in the motorsports industry, with other professional, collegiate and amateur sports, and with new and expanding non-motorsports entertainment alternatives could hinder our ability to maintain or improve our position in the industry.. Motorsports promotion is a competitive industry. We compete in local, regional and national markets, and with ISC and other NASCAR related speedways to promote events, especially Monster Energy NASCAR Cup and Xfinity Series events and, to a lesser extent, with other speedway owners to promote other NASCAR, IndyCar, NHRA and WOO events. We believe our principal competitors are other motorsports promoters of Monster Energy Cup and Xfinity Series or equivalent events. NASCAR is owned by the France family, who also controls ISC. ISC presently hosts a significant number of Monster Energy Cup and Xfinity Series races. Our competitors may attempt to build speedways and conduct racing and other motorsports related activities in new markets that may compete with us and our local and regional fan base or marketing opportunities.. We compete for spectator interest and consumer and corporate spending with all forms of professional, collegiate and amateur spring, summer and fall sports, such as football, baseball, basketball, soccer and hockey conducted in and near Atlanta, Boston, Bristol, Charlotte, Cincinnati, Dallas-Fort Worth, Las Vegas, Lexington, Louisville, and San Francisco, and locally, regionally and nationally. We also compete for spectator interest and consumer and corporate spending with non-sports related venues and events such as concerts, shows and a widening range of other available entertainment and recreational activities in those same geographical areas. New and expanding entertainment venues and activities are continually being developed and marketed to attract the changing demographics, particularly outside of motorsports. These competing events and activities may be held on the same days or weekends as our events. Many of those sports and non-sports competing promoters have resources that exceed ours.. Failure to be awarded a NASCAR event, deterioration in our relationship with NASCAR or substantial changes in financial terms of Event Management Fees could adversely affect our profitability.. Our success has been, and remains to a significant extent, dependent upon maintaining a good working relationship with organizations that sanction races we promote at our facilities, particularly NASCAR, the sanctioning body for Monster Energy Cup, Xfinity and Camping World Truck Series races. SMI entered into separate five-year Event Management Agreements (formerly purse and sanction agreements) with NASCAR, under which our speedways would conduct Monster Energy NASCAR Cup, Xfinity and Camping World Truck Series and the All-Star Race events beginning in 2016 and through 2020. Although we believe our relationship with NASCAR is good, nonrenewal of a NASCAR event license or substantial changes in the associated financial terms could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to obtain NASCAR licenses to sponsor races, or with acceptable financial terms, at our facilities beyond those currently under contract.. Our NASCAR broadcasting rights revenues are significant and changes could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. Our NASCAR broadcasting rights revenues are significant multi-year contracted revenue and cash flow sources for us. Any significant adverse changes to such rights revenues could adversely impact our results. As further discussed in “Business – NASCAR Broadcasting Rights”, NASCAR reached ten-year, multi-platform and media partnership agreements with FOX Sports Media Group and NBC Sports Group beginning in 2015 through 2024. These ten-year broadcasting agreements are anticipated to provide us annual contracted revenue increases averaging almost 4% per year, with total contracted NASCAR broadcasting revenues of approximately $217 million in 2018. Future changes in race schedules could impact broadcasting revenues. Similar to many televised sports, overall seasonal averages for motorsports may increase or decrease from year to year, and television ratings for certain individual events may fluctuate from year to year for any number of reasons. NASCAR ratings can impact attendance at our events and sponsorship opportunities.. 14. Table of Contents. Relocation, failure to relocate, or other scheduling changes in holding our motorsports events could adversely affect us.. We may evaluate or attempt to realign one or more Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series (or other motorsports series) race dates among our multiple track facilities, or change the quarterly periods in which the same number of race dates are held each year. Many factors and alternatives must be considered when moving races, including the popularity and profitability of various races, relative speedway seating capacity, alternative speedway uses and revenues, costs of any capital expenditures to upgrade or expand facilities, lead times required to complete any upgrades or expansion, alternative uses of capital, existing or potential governmental tax incentives, changing economic conditions for the individual speedway or economy as a whole, as well as various other strategic issues. NASCAR has previously stated it would consider potential track realignment of Monster Energy Cup Series racing events to desirable, potentially more profitable market venues of speedway operators, but is not obligated to do so. Similarly, NASCAR is not obligated to modify its race schedules to allow us to schedule our races more efficiently or favorably.. However, as further described in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity\", we obtained approval from NASCAR to realign annual Monster Energy Cup Series and Camping World Truck Series racing events from NHMS, and an annual Xfinity Series racing event from KyS, to LVMS beginning in 2018. The realignment may have a material impact on our annual cash flow cycles and our operating results after 2017. Relocation or changes in calendar periods of our larger events held among our speedways, particularly Monster Energy Cup racing events, could result in lower profitability than management anticipated and net decreases in future operating profitability and cash flows. Also, long-lived assets of a speedway from where a Monster Energy Cup racing event may move could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge that adversely affects our future financial condition or results of operations. Different economic or industry conditions or assumptions, changes in projected cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, or actual race date realignments that differ significantly from those assumed in any impairment evaluation, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluations and future financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in security and safety rules, regulations or needs could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Our protective efforts and activities related to spectator security and safety are substantial. Those concerns and efforts continue to evolve and expand, and sanctioning bodies for many of our events continue to impose expanded or stricter rules and requirements for protecting race and other event participants. Sanctioning bodies could impose additional safety or security measures or requirements that involve significant capital expenditures or increased operating expenses. Many other sporting venues involving large public gatherings continue to increase their public safety and security measures before and during events. We have increased, and may continue to further increase, our safety and security efforts and activities whether or not mandated by sanctioning bodies. The substantial costs of security and enhanced prevention activities, including protective measures for drivers or fans, may continue to increase and adversely impact our future financial condition or results of operations.. Increased costs associated with, and inability to obtain, adequate insurance and the risks of partial self-insurance could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. We have a material investment in property and equipment at each of our eight speedway facilities, which are generally located near highly populated cities and hold events typically attended by large numbers of fans. These operational, geographical and situational factors, among others, can result in high or increasing insurance premium costs and difficulties obtaining sufficiently high policy limits, which could adversely impact our future financial condition or results of operations.. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to manage various risks associated with our speedways and other properties and motorsports events and other business risks. We may increase the marketing of certain products using self-insured promotional warranty programs that could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number and amount of claims significantly increase. We have increased and may further increase our self-insurance limits, which could subject us to increased risk of loss should the number of incidents, damages, casualties or other claims below such self-insured limits increase. Management cannot guarantee that the number of uninsured losses will not increase. An increase in the number of uninsured losses could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position or results of operations.. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurred or major motorsports events were cancelled, and liability for personal injuries and product liability claims could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Management attempts to obtain, and believes we presently have, reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability, cyberattack and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers. However, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits or coverage currently in force would be adequate should one or multiple catastrophic events occur at or near any of our speedway facilities, or one or more of our major motorsports events were cancelled. Once our present coverage expires, we cannot guarantee that adequate coverage limits will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of such an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our speedway facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position and results of operations if our asset damage or liability was to exceed insurance coverage limits or an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay our related claims or damages. The occurrence of regional or national incidents, in particular incidents at sporting events, entertainment or other public venues, could significantly impair our ability to obtain such insurance coverage in the future.. 15. Table of Contents. Motorsports can be dangerous to participants and to spectators. We believe we maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that are sufficient to protect us from material financial loss due to liability for personal injuries sustained by persons on our premises in the ordinary course of business. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times or in all circumstances.. The financial stability of certain insurance companies that provide our insurance coverage could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical and other events or conditions as further discussed above. In that case, the ability of these insurance companies to pay our potential claims could be impaired, and we might not be able to obtain adequate replacement insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or at all. Any of these events could harm our business, and we cannot provide assurance that future increases in such insurance costs and difficulties in obtaining high policy limits will not adversely impact our future financial position or results of operations.. The loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our operations and growth.. Our success depends to a great extent upon the availability and performance of our senior management. Their experience within the industry, especially their working relationship with NASCAR, continues to be of considerable importance to us. The loss of any of our key personnel due to illness, retirement or otherwise, or our inability to attract and retain key employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business plans.. We may make significant expenditures for capital projects and investments, and costs and uncertainties associated with capital improvements could adversely affect our profitability.. Our Credit Facility allows for annual capital expenditures of up to $75.0 million, and provides for additional borrowings of up to $99.3 million as of December 31, 2017 subject to meeting specified conditions. We may make material capital improvements over several years in amounts that have not yet been determined. The cost, profitability, timing or success of future capital projects and investments is subject to numerous factors, conditions and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays in or denials of government approvals or permits \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tundetected soil or land, including environmental conditions \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional land acquisition costs \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in the cost of construction materials and labor \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunforeseen changes in design \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation, accidents or natural disasters affecting the construction site \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnational or regional economic, regulatory or geopolitical changes. Significant negative or unfavorable outcomes could reduce our available cash and cash investments or our ability to service current or future indebtedness, require additional borrowings resulting in higher debt service and interest costs, lower our ratings by credit agencies, increase our difficulties in borrowing additional amounts, cause higher than anticipated depreciation expense, among other negative consequences, and could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations.. Should projects be abandoned or substantially decreased in scope due to unforeseen negative factors, we could be required to expense some or all previously capitalized costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations. Repurposed or replaced speedway facilities that are larger or different than initially planned could result in material additional accelerated depreciation or shortened periods of depreciation. Also, should improvement projects not produce a sufficient economic yield, including those requiring demolition of speedway facility components, or where capitalization of demolition, construction and historical component costs are limited to a revised estimated project value, capitalized expenditures could become impaired resulting in a material impairment charge. These charges could have a substantial adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations.. Future impairment of our property and equipment or other intangible assets and goodwill, and future changes in asset depreciation periods, could adversely affect our profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we have net property and equipment of $958.2 million, net other intangible assets of $298.4 million and goodwill of $46.2 million. We periodically evaluate property and equipment under certain circumstances and events, and annually evaluate other intangible assets and goodwill, for possible impairment. Our evaluation methodology, assumptions, and results are further described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe no unrecognized impairment exists at December 31, 2017. Different conditions, trends or assumptions or changes in cash flows or profitability, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the outcome of our impairment evaluation. Should our reporting units or their indefinite-lived intangible assets not achieve projected cash flows or profitability, or should actual capital expenditures exceed current plans, estimated fair values could be reduced to below carrying values resulting in material non-cash impairment charges and adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations. The evaluations are subjective and based on conditions, trends and assumptions existing at the time of evaluation.. 16. Table of Contents. From time to time, we may decide to repurpose lower demand seating areas and suites at certain speedways to help manage facility capacity, improve sightlines, expand viewing areas, and convert space for alternative marketing uses or other reasons. We may incur significant expenditures to demolish or convert such seating, including associated grandstand areas, in years and amounts that have not yet been determined. Such expenditures may or may not increase our future success and profitability, which depends on many factors outside of management’s control. As further described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we recorded significant non-cash charges for accelerated depreciation related to repurposing of certain seating and other speedway facilities in 2017 and recent years.. Notwithstanding such charges, the depreciable carrying values for our grandstands and suites are material. Depending on management’s plans, we could be required to accelerate or shorten depreciation periods or write off remaining undepreciated net book value of associated assets, or incur significant costs of demolition and disposal, all or some of which could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition or results of operations.. The success of our business depends, in part, on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions and dispositions, projects or other development activities, and efficient and successful integration into our operations.. From time to time, we pursue acquisitions, projects and other development activities, or joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy, which may involve significant challenges and risks. Transactions may not advance our business strategy or we may not realize a satisfactory return on our investments or activities. We may experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems and technology, or management’s attention may be diverted from our other businesses or operations. Also, our use of cash or additional borrowings to fund such transactions or activities could adversely impact our liquidity, and our ability to borrow additional funds for other business purposes, or cause lowered ratings by credit agencies resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts, among other things. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations.. We may continue to significantly improve our speedway facilities, involving material capital expenditures over several years in amounts or nature that have not yet been determined. Such expenditures may or may not increase our future success and the ability to compete and operate successfully and profitably depends on many factors outside of management’s control. Management may from time to time evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer be in alignment with our strategic direction. We may have difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of or sell a business or assets at a price or on terms that are less than optimal or whose subsequent performance exceeds expectations. These factors could adversely affect our future financial condition or results of operations.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position, our ability to meet our obligations under our debt instruments, and our ability to pay dividends.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $231.0 million as further described in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our indebtedness and leverage could make it more difficult and costly to borrow money, and may reduce funds available for financing our operations and other business activities and have other important consequences, including the following:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for payment of principal, debt redemption, interest costs, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, stock repurchases, and other corporate purposes \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to adjust to adverse or changing market conditions and withstand competitive pressures could be limited, and we may be vulnerable to additional risk in difficult general economic or other market conditions \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less leverage and greater operating and financial flexibility \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour debt levels may increase our interest costs or reduce our ability to obtain additional or replacement financing or obtain financing at acceptable rates or terms \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour debt levels may cause lowered ratings by credit agencies, resulting in higher borrowing costs or increased difficulties borrowing additional amounts. Each or all of the factors could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations.. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control.. A significant portion of our cash flow must be used to service our indebtedness and is therefore not available for other use in our business. In 2017, we paid $12.8 million in interest on our indebtedness. Our ability to make debt service payments depends on our future ability to generate sufficient cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, legislative, regulatory, industry, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our operations are substantially impacted by the success of NASCAR in the promotion and conduct of racing as a sanctioning body, our relationship with NASCAR, the popularity of NASCAR and other motorsports generally, and the impact of competition. Although under our control, our cash outlays for dividends are funded in part with cash that would otherwise be available for capital spending, repurchases of common stock or other liquidity needs. Also, any future dividend increases would further limit cash otherwise available for such uses or needs. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to pay our indebtedness or fund other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity.. 17. Table of Contents. Our future borrowing costs on current or future indebtedness could substantially increase, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total outstanding long-term debt of approximately $231.0 million and our revolving Credit Facility permits additional borrowings of up to $99.3 million. Our operating results have benefited from relatively low interest rates on our floating rate Credit Facility and future increases, if significant, could adversely impact our future results. Our future capital spending or investments could significantly increase our future outstanding debt. Also, our future interest and borrowing costs under our Credit Facility or any refinanced or additional debt could substantially increase and adversely affect our financial condition or profitability. We are currently unable to predict if, when or how much interest rates could change. Our indebtedness levels and leverage could result in higher interest and other borrowing costs and more restrictive financial and other loan covenants under any new credit facility or other borrowing arrangements.. As further discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, interest rates under our Credit Facility are based on specified tier levels that are adjustable periodically based upon certain consolidated total leverage ratios. Our current planned or unplanned future capital spending could result in increases in our future outstanding indebtedness. Such factors, along with our current leverage, could further reduce the amounts by which we exceed minimum required covenant compliance levels and result in changes to our interest cost tier levels. Future changes in such surplus in our compliance levels or interest cost tiers could result in increased interest costs on current or future indebtedness, restricted or reduced borrowings and availability under our Credit Facility, and increased costs for any new borrowings or financing. Each or all of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations.. Restrictions imposed by terms of our indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing.. The indenture for the 2023 Senior Notes and our Credit Facility agreement restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to do any of the following:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional debt or liens \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends or make distributions \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake specified types of investments \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tapply net proceeds from certain asset sales \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tengage in transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell equity interests of subsidiaries, or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of assets \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t• \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur indebtedness subordinate in right-of-payment to any senior indebtedness or senior in right-of-payment to the 2023 Senior Notes. Because of our outstanding indebtedness, debt covenant compliance is important to our operations. Our Credit Facility is the primary source of committed funding for our planned capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, repurchases of our common stock and working capital needs. Our Credit Facility contains more extensive and restrictive covenants than our 2023 Senior Notes, and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios as further described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity”.. Failure to comply with any covenant could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Non-compliance with financial covenant ratios or other covenants could prevent us from further borrowings or require repayment under our Credit Facility. Our ability to meet those covenants, financial ratios and tests can be affected by material impairment or other charges, declines in profitability or cash flows or other economic or market factors beyond our control, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those tests. Our Credit Facility and 2023 Senior Notes contain cross-default provisions. A default under any of these debt agreements could likely trigger cross-default provisions. Lenders, in each case, could be allowed to exercise their rights and remedies as defined under their respective agreements, including declaring all amounts outstanding, accrued interest or other obligations to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay these amounts, such lenders could proceed against collateral, if any, securing that indebtedness. If any indebtedness was accelerated, there can be no assurance that we could repay or refinance accelerated amounts due.. Under these covenants, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted. We may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Should we pursue further development or acquisition opportunities, the timing, size and success, as well as associated potential capital commitments of which are unknown at this time, we may need to raise additional capital through debt or equity financings. There can be no assurance that adequate debt and equity financing will be available if and when needed, on satisfactory terms or permitted under our debt arrangements. Failure to obtain further financing could have a negative effect on our business and operations.. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future.. We may, from time to time, engage in additional financing depending on future growth and financing needs, or redeem, retire or purchase our debt and equity securities depending on liquidity, prevailing market conditions, permissibility under our debt agreements, and other factors as our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may consider relevant. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may be permitted to incur significant additional debt in the future. Also, we may be able to secure additional debt with Company, subsidiary or new business assets. Furthermore, any new financing arrangements may contain additional restrictive and financial covenants. These covenants may restrict or prohibit many actions including, but not limited to, our ability to incur debt, create liens, prepay debt, pay dividends, limit capital expenditures, investments or transactions with stockholders and affiliates, issue capital stock, sell certain assets, or engage in mergers, consolidations or other transactions. Failure to maintain compliance with any new covenants could constitute a default, which could accelerate payment due of any or all amounts outstanding under new or existing debt agreements.. 18. Table of Contents. Government regulation, political sensitivities or public attention of certain motorsports sponsors could negatively impact the availability of promotion, sponsorship and advertising revenue for us.. The motorsports industry generates significant revenue each year from the promotion, sponsorship and advertising of various companies and their products, some of which are subject to government regulation. Advertising of alcoholic beverages, tobacco and firearms is generally subject to greater governmental regulation, political sensitivities or public attention than advertising by other sponsors of our events. Certain of our sponsorship and other marketing contracts are terminable upon the implementation of adverse regulations. We cannot assure you that these or other regulated industries will continue to sponsor motorsports events or participate in other promotional activities, suitable alternative sponsors will be located, or NASCAR will continue to sanction individual racing events involving such industries or promotional activities. Implementation of further restrictions on the advertising or promotion of these industries or their products could adversely affect us.. Failure to maintain adequate cybersecurity protection for certain customer-related information could damage our reputation with current or prospective customers, subject us to litigation or adverse regulatory actions, or cause us to incur substantial additional costs or substantial losses of revenues.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store certain financial and other information from individuals, corporations and others, including customers, employees and outside contractors. We process customer payment card information, perform credit, employment and other business related inquiries, and collect customary information used for marketing purposes. We contract with third parties for processing orders and payments of a large portion of our tickets and other access sold for our events, much of which is transacted indirectly through links with our external or partner websites. Our online operations depend upon secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting and transacting cashless payments. Also, Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards continue to increase, along with tougher compliance requirements. Our cybersecurity protection measures are increasingly costly as new prevention and detection technologies emerge in response to ongoing and rapid changes in cyber-terrorism and other system intrusion efforts advance. We commit significant internal and external resources to network security, data encryption, PCI security standards compliance and other security measures to protect our networks and data, but there can be no assurance these security measures provide complete security. We attempt to limit exposure to security breaches and sensitive customer data through the use of “tokens” in certain processing applications, which is an industry best practice that does not require storage of credit card numbers.. As with all entities, our cybersecurity protection measures are subject to third-party security hardware and software soundness, employee and consultant errors or intentional harmful actions and other unforeseen factors or circumstances. Our or third-party networks could be breached and we could be unable to protect sensitive data. A breach of our security networks that results in personal, corporate or other sensitive information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with current or prospective customers, credit and debit card processers, ticket sellers and distributors, and others. Such security breaches could result in litigation against us, adverse regulatory or credit card processer actions, restrictions or imposing substantial penalties or fines. We could be required or need to spend significant additional resources on our information security systems, including engaging third party consultants or employee hiring and training. Also, a security breach could disrupt our operations, particularly sales and marketing, result in lost customer revenue and create significant negative publicity. Notwithstanding the absence of any security breach, our failure to maintain compliance with PCI security standards could result in significant penalties, fines, increased processing costs or discontinued card acceptance by processors. While we maintain cyber liability insurance, certain losses may not be covered. Any significant breach could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition or results of operations.. Results and costs attributable to the extraction of natural gas are uncertain.. As further discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our TMS subsidiary has a natural gas mineral rights lease agreement and a joint exploration agreement. The long-term lease remains enforceable as long as drilling or extraction related activities continue or certain prices levels are met. Drilling natural gas wells involves numerous risks and our revenues and royalties from such operations may be impacted as a result of a variety of factors. Revenues can vary from associated volatility in natural gas price levels and common diminishing well production, drilling conditions, various operating and regulatory factors common in drilling and exploration activities, as well as other factors outside of TMS’s control. Such revenues have declined from associated market declines and volatility in natural gas price levels. At this time, while extraction activities continue, no new wells are being explored, and management is unable to determine ongoing volumes of production if any or for how long (including common diminishing well production over time), or if natural gas price levels will further decline or remain steady or adequate. The agreements stipulate that TMS distribute 25% of production royalty revenues to the lessee, and obligate TMS to spend amounts equal to royalties received on TMS facility and road infrastructure improvements up to specified cumulative amounts. However, at this time, management believes 2018 revenues will not differ significantly from 2017, and that our infrastructure spending will continue to exceed anticipated future royalties similar to 2017.. Our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and their family own a majority of our common stock and will control any matter submitted to a vote of our stockholders.. As of March 12, 2018, Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Executive Chairman, and Mr. Marcus G. Smith, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned, directly and indirectly, an aggregate of approximately 29 million shares or 71% of our common stock. As a result, they will continue to control the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders, including the election of all directors. As a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules, we also qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that we have nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees composed entirely of independent directors. Although we qualify, we do not currently use this “controlled company” exemption.. 19. Table of Contents. Our large net deferred tax liabilities, further changes in income tax laws, or changes or revisions to our income tax reporting could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As further described in our “Critical Accounting Policies and Accounting Estimates” and Notes 2 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our income taxes and deferred tax assets and liabilities are material to our current and future financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, we recognized the accounting effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“the Tax Act”) enacted into United States tax law, subject to Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB No. 118”) which provides for a provisional one-year measurement period for entities to finalize their accounting for certain income tax effects of the Tax Act. We recorded provisional tax expense related to non-deductible executive compensation as we anticipate the performance-based exception on our cash compensation plans will no longer be applicable. We anticipate the Internal Revenue Service will be providing additional guidance on the accounting for non-deductible executive compensation. We plan to finalize the accounting for those provisional amounts upon filing of our federal income tax returns within our 2018 fourth quarter, or in earlier periods if additional guidance is issued. At this time, we believe those provisional adjustments will not materially impact our future effective income tax rates, deferred tax liabilities or cash flows; however, such amounts are estimates that remain subject to finalization. Final amounts may differ from provisional amounts after further analysis, changes in interpretation and assumptions, or additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, among other things.. At December 31, 2017, net deferred tax liabilities totaled $201.8 million, including deferred tax assets of $11.1 million, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits totaled $11.7 million. At December 31, 2017, valuation allowances of $1.9 million have been provided against deferred tax assets because management has determined that ultimate realization is not more likely than not. The associated accounting and reporting for income taxes is complicated and based on significant assumptions, estimates and judgment. Numerous factors are involved in assessing and adjusting deferred tax assets and liabilities, including valuation allowances and reserves for uncertain tax positions. Our accounting for income taxes also involves our best estimate of future events. Should tax positions not be fully sustained if examined, an acceleration of material income taxes payable could occur. Where no net income tax benefit had been previously reflected because of providing a valuation allowance on related deferred tax assets, our future results of operations might not be significantly impacted. However, resulting cash required for payments of income taxes could be material in periods such determination is made.. Our deferred tax liabilities associated with our property and equipment are material. Our future capital expenditures, along with further changes in income tax laws, can significantly impact the timing of reversal of deferred tax liabilities and the amount and timing of our future cash paid for income taxes. While management plans to minimize income taxes payable in future years where possible, the amount and timing of cash income taxes ultimately paid are subject to many factors that are subject to change. The reversal of deferred income tax liabilities resulted in higher cash paid for income taxes in 2017 as compared to recent years. While we anticipate our future cash outlays for income taxes under the Tax Act will be relatively lower than under previous tax law, such 2018 and future payments are expected to remain substantial.. Our effective income tax rates in future years may or may not be impacted by many factors, which could result in relative increases or decreases in future income tax expense. Changes in existing tax laws or rates could affect our actual future taxable results and the realization of deferred tax assets or liabilities over time. Applicable accounting guidance may require establishing valuation allowances for certain deferred tax assets, notwithstanding management believes associated tax filing positions are sustainable and are or will be reflected in its tax filings. Further changes in tax laws, assumptions, estimates or methods used in accounting for income taxes, or changes or adjustments resulting from review by taxing authorities, if significantly negative or unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on amounts or timing of realization or settlement. Such effects could result in a material acceleration of income taxes currently payable or valuation charges for realization uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations.. Environmental costs may negatively impact our financial condition.. Solid waste landfilling has occurred on and around the property at CMS for many years. If damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment is determined to have been caused by the conduct of our business or by pollutants used, generated or disposed of by us, or which may be found on our property, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation or remediation, or both, of such contamination or damage. The amount of such liability, as to which we are self-insured, could be material. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events. Changes in federal, state or local laws, regulations or requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, could require additional significant expenditures by us for remediation and compliance.. Land use laws and other governmental regulations may negatively impact our growth.. Our development of new facilities, including the improvement or expansion of existing facilities, requires compliance with applicable federal, state and local land use, building codes and other planning, zoning and environmental regulations. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from acquiring or developing prime locations for motorsports facilities, substantially delay or complicate the process of improving existing facilities, or increase the costs of any such activities. Governmental laws and regulations may change or expand from time to time, resulting in increased costs for remediation or maintaining compliance.. 20. Table of Contents. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by future exercises or future grants of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock unit awards or other stock-based compensation, sales of shares held by key personnel, or default of loans under which some of our common stock is pledged.. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected by the sale of approximately 224,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of various options under our equity compensation plans, by the issuance or sale of approximately 3,407,000 shares of our common stock available for grant under our equity compensation plans, or by the sale of approximately 29 million shares of our common stock available for resale in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, including shares held directly or indirectly by Mr. O. Bruton Smith, our Executive Chairman, and Mr. Marcus G. Smith, our Chief Executive Officer. The market price for our common stock could also be adversely affected if there was a default of one of the non-Company loans under which 500,000 shares of our common stock, owned by Mr. O. Bruton Smith and Sonic Financial Corporation, an affiliate through common ownership by Mr. O. Bruton Smith and Mr. Marcus G. Smith, have been pledged."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
