[1] "Item     1A.     RISK     FACTORS.. Risks Related to Our Business. Because we have a limited operating history to evaluate our company, the likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered by an early-stage company.. Since we have a limited operating history in our current business of patent licensing and monetization, it will make it difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our business and prospects.  You must consider our prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties we face as an early stage company with a limited operating history.  Investors should evaluate an investment in our securities in light of the uncertainties encountered by early stage companies in an intensely competitive industry and in which the potential licenses and/or defendants from which the Company seeks to obtain recoveries are largely well-capitalized companies with resources (financial and otherwise) significantly greater than the Company’s.  There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that we will be able to become profitable.. We continue to incur operating losses and may not achieve profitability.. Our loss from operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $3.8 million and $8.6 million, respectively. Our net loss attributable to common stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2017 was $3.3 million and net income attributable to common stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2016 was $25.0 million. Our accumulated deficit was $145.1 million at December 31, 2017. We recognized $1.2 million and $877,000 in revenue in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue from the monetization of intellectual property. We do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue from such monetization. Even though our revenue may increase, we expect to incur significant additional losses while we grow and expand our business. We cannot predict if and when we will achieve profitability. Our failure to achieve and sustain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock.. We expect to need additional capital to fund our growing operations and if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we may be forced to limit the scope of our operations.. We expect that for our business to grow we will need additional working capital.  If adequate additional debt and/or equity financing is not available on reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to continue to expand our business or pay our outstanding obligations, and we will have to modify our business plans accordingly.  These factors would have a material adverse effect on our future operating results and our financial condition.. 8. If we reach a point where we are unable to raise needed additional funds to continue as a going concern, we will be forced to cease our activities and dissolve the Company.  In such an event, we will need to satisfy various creditors and other claimants, severance, lease termination and other dissolution-related obligations and we may not have sufficient funds to pay to our stockholders.. Further impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are required to assess goodwill for impairment if events occur or circumstances changed that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. In addition, we are required to test our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment if events occur or circumstances change that would indicate the remaining net book value of the finite-lived intangible assets might not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, including a significant sustained decline in an entity’s market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of our business, potential government actions and other factors. As a result of decline in the market value of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a $2.7 million impairment charge to our intangible assets. If the fair value of our reporting units or finite intangible assets is less than their book value in the future, we could be required to record additional impairment charges. A continued decline of the market price of our common stock could result in additional impairment charges in the future. The amount of any impairment could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.. The focus of our business is to monetize intellectual property, including through licensing and enforcement.  We may not be able to successfully monetize the patents or other licensed technology which we acquire and thus may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of such acquisition.. We acquired our patents and patent applications during 2013 in three transactions which significantly changed the focus of our business and operations.  We currently own and license several hundred patent assets and although we may seek to commercialize and develop products, alone or with others, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully commercialize or develop products and such commercialization and development is not a core focus of our business.  There is significant risk involved in connection with our activities in which we seek to monetize the patent portfolios that we acquired from Rockstar and North South.. In March 2016, we entered into an agreement (which was subsequently amended) with Equitable to facilitate the monetization of our patents (the “Monetization Agreement”). Pursuant to the Monetization Agreement, we have worked together with Equitable to develop and revise our ongoing litigation plan. Under the Monetization Agreement, Equitable is obligated to use its best commercially reasonable efforts to monetize our patents. We will share net monetization revenue derived from all monetization activity equally with Equitable. To facilitate the litigation plan, approximately 186 of over 330 of our patents and applications have been assigned to Equitable, which will pay all maintenance and prosecution fees going forward. No assigned patents may be transferred by Equitable to a third party without our consent. In the event that all terms of the Monetization Agreement are met by December 2017, we will further assign approximately 140 additional patents and applications to Equitable for monetization. We have retained a grant-back license to practice all transferred patents.. Our business is commonly referred to as a non-practicing entity model (or “NPE”) since we do not currently commercialize or develop products under the recently acquired patents.  As an entity, we have limited prior experience as an NPE.  The acquisition of the patents and an NPE business model could fail to produce anticipated benefits, or could have other adverse effects that we do not currently foresee.  Failure to successfully monetize our patent assets or to operate an NPE business may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the acquisition of patent portfolios is subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to the following:. •     There     is a significant time lag between acquiring a patent portfolio and recognizing revenue from those patent assets.  During     that time lag, material costs are likely to be incurred that would have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash     flows and financial position, lagging any potential revenues generated by such activity; and. •     The     integration of a patent portfolio will be a time consuming and expensive process that may disrupt our operations.  If     our integration efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be harmed.  In addition, we may not     achieve anticipated synergies or other benefits from such acquisition.. •     If     we initiate a patent infringement suit against potential infringers, or if potential licensees initiate a declaratory judgment     action or administrative review action against us, such potential infringers and/or licensees may successfully invalidate     our patents, or a fact finder may find that the potential infringer’s products do not infringe our patents. Thus, we     may not successfully monetize the patents. These activities are inherently risky, time consuming and costly.. Therefore, there is no assurance that the monetization of the patent portfolios we acquire will be successful, will occur timely or in a timeframe that is capable of prediction or will generate enough revenue to recoup our investment.. 9. We presently rely primarily on the patent assets we acquired from North South and Rockstar, which we are monetizing primarily through our agreement with Equitable.  If we are unable to commercialize, license or otherwise monetize such assets and generate revenue and profit through those assets or by other means, there is a significant risk that our business will fail.. If our efforts to generate revenue from our patent portfolios acquired from Rockstar and North South fail, we will have incurred significant losses. We may not seek and may be unable to acquire additional assets and therefore may be wholly reliant on our present portfolios for revenue. If we are unable to generate revenue from our current assets and fail to acquire any additional assets, our business will likely fail.. In connection with our business, we may commence legal proceedings against certain companies whose size and resources could be substantially greater than ours. We expect such litigation to be time-consuming, lengthy and costly, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to survive or operate our business, even if the patents are valid and the cases we bring have merit.. To license or otherwise monetize our intellectual property assets, we may be required to commence legal proceedings against certain large, well established and well-capitalized companies. We may allege that such companies infringe on one or more of our patents. Our viability could be highly dependent on the outcome of this litigation, and there is a risk that we may be unable to achieve the results we desire from such litigation. The defendants in litigation brought by us are likely to be much larger than us and have substantially more resources than we do, which would make success of our litigation efforts subject to factors other than the validity of our patents or infringement claims asserted. Furthermore, as a public company, our level of cash resources and ability to incur expenditures on enforcing infringement claims is available to the public, including the entities against whom we seek to enforce our patents, and defendants may engage in tactics in an effort for us to utilize our remaining resources. The inability to successfully enforce our patents against larger more well-capitalized companies could result in realization through settlement or election to not pursue certain infringers, or less value from our patents, and could result in substantially lower than anticipated revenue realized from infringements and lower settlement values.. We anticipate that legal proceedings against infringers of our patents may continue for several or more years and may require significant expenditures for legal fees and other expenses. Disputes regarding the assertion of patents and other intellectual property rights are highly complex and technical.  In addition, courts and the laws are constantly changing in a manner that could increase our fees and expenses for pursuing infringers, and also could result in our assumption of legal fees of defendants if we are unsuccessful. Once initiated, we may be forced to litigate against others to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. The defendants or other third parties involved in the lawsuits in which we are involved may allege defenses and/or file counterclaims in an effort to avoid or limit liability and damages for patent infringement. Potential defendants could challenge our patents and our actions by commencing lawsuits seeking declaratory judgments declaring our patents invalid, not infringed, or for improper or unlawful activities. If such defenses or counterclaims are successful, they may preclude our ability to obtain damages for infringement or derive licensing revenue from the patents. A negative outcome of any such litigation, or one or more claims contained within any such litigation, could materially and adversely impact our business. For example, on July 1, 2015, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia issued a Markman Order interpreting certain key claims in favor of the defendants in one of our actions against Verizon, resulting in the dismissal of our claims against Verizon with respect to one of our patents. Additionally, we anticipate that our legal fees and other expenses will be material and will negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to continue our business.. Parties who are alleged infringers of our patent rights may also challenge the validity of our patents in proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These potential proceedings include ex parte reexaminations, inter partes review, or covered business method patent challenges. These proceedings could result in certain of our patent claims being dismissed or certain of our patents being invalidated. We would expend significant legal fees to defend against such actions.. Federal courts are becoming more crowded and, as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer.. Our patent enforcement actions are almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear our patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases. Criminal cases always take priority over our actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges and, as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater effect on our business in the future unless this trend changes.. We have been the subject of litigation and, due to the nature of our business, may be the target of future legal proceedings that could have an adverse effect on our business and our ability to monetize our patents.. In the ordinary course of business, we, along with our wholly-owned subsidiaries, will initiate litigation against parties whom we believe have infringed on our intellectual property rights and technologies. The initiation of such litigation exposes us to potential counterclaims initiated by the defendants.. The Company may become subject to similar actions in the future which will be costly and time consuming to defend, the outcome of which are uncertain.. 10. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and our business may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely impacted.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or to prevent fraud could harm our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In order to continue to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to continuously evaluate and, where appropriate, enhance our policies, procedures and internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we could be subject to litigation or regulatory scrutiny and investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that management will conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we fail to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business may be harmed and our stock price may decline.. Our assessment, testing and evaluation of the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that, as of December 31, 2017, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, due to our lack of segregation of duties, and lack of controls in place to ensure that all material transactions and developments impacting the financial statements are reflected. We can provide no assurance as to conclusions of management with respect to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in the future.. We may seek to internally develop additional new inventions and intellectual property, which would take time and be costly.  Moreover, the failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for such inventions would lead to the loss of our investments in such activities.. Part of our business may include the internal development of new inventions or intellectual property that we will seek to monetize. For example, as a result of our acquisition of certain shares of common stock of Hoth Therapeutics, Inc. (“Hoth”) in June 2017, we have indirectly acquired certain sublicensing rights for BioLexa products developed by Chelexa Biosciences, Inc., for the treatment of eczema. Hoth is developing BioLexa’s applications in the aesthetic dermatology field to help treat and reduce post-procedure infections, accelerate healing and improve clinical outcomes for patients undergoing procedures and also intends to implement FDA testing procedures for BioLexa. Should we choose to assist in the development of BioLexa’s applications and/or internally develop any other inventions or intellectual property, such aspect of our business will require significant capital and will take time to achieve.  Such activities may also distract our management team from its present business initiatives, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. There is also the risk that our initiatives in this regard would not yield any viable new inventions or technology, which would lead to a loss of our investments in time and resources in such activities.. In addition, even if we are able to internally develop new inventions, in order for those inventions to be viable and to compete effectively, we would need to develop and maintain, and we would heavily rely upon, a proprietary position with respect to such inventions and intellectual property. However, there are significant risks associated with any such intellectual property we may develop principally, including the following:. •     patent     applications we may file may not result in issued patents or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents;•     we     may be subject to interference proceedings;•     we     may be subject to opposition proceedings in the U.S. or foreign countries;•     any     patents that are issued to us may not provide meaningful protection;•     we     may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable;•     other     companies may challenge patents issued to us;•     other     companies may have independently developed and/or patented (or may in the future independently develop and patent) similar     or alternative technologies, or duplicate our technologies;•     other     companies may design around technologies we have developed; and•     enforcement     of our patents could be complex, uncertain and very expensive.. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any future applications, or that any of our patents, once issued, will provide us with adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, since publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we will be the first to make our additional new inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. It is also possible that others may have or may obtain issued patents that could prevent us from commercializing our products or require us to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable us to conduct our business. As to those patents that we may license or otherwise monetize, our rights will depend on maintaining our obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and we may be unable to do so. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights for our inventions would lead to the loss our business.. Moreover, patent application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from our internally generated patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market.. 11. We may be reliant on third parties to generate revenue for us.. In early 2016, we entered into a Monetization Agreement pursuant to which other more well-capitalized entities have the right to enforce our patent portfolio in exchange for royalties from enforcement proceeds. We may also enter into similar such agreements in the future. These agreements generally do not impose any affirmative obligation on the part of our contractual counterparties to enforce any rights under our patents. If these counterparties do seek to enforce rights under our patents, legal proceedings against infringers of our patents may continue for several or more years and it may be a significant period of time before we derive any income from these arrangements. These arrangements may also preclude us from enforcing these patents ourselves. Failure of these third parties to successfully enforce our patents may have an adverse effect on our revenues.. Our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely affected by certain of our agreements.. Our ability to raise additional capital for use in our operating activities may be adversely impacted by the terms of a securities purchase agreement, dated as of July 15, 2015 (the “Securities Purchase Agreement”), between us and the investors who purchased securities in our July 2015 offering of our common stock and warrants for the purchase of our common stock. The Securities Purchase Agreement provides that, until the warrants issued thereunder are no longer outstanding, we will not effect or enter into a variable rate transaction, which includes issuances of securities whose prices or conversion prices may vary with the trading prices of or quotations for the shares of our common Stock at any time after the initial issuance of such securities, as well as the entry into agreements where our stock would be issued at a future-determined price. These warrants may remain outstanding as late as January 22, 2021, when the warrants expire in accordance with their terms. These restrictions may have an adverse impact on our ability to raise additional capital, or to use our cash to make certain payments that we are contractually obligated to make.. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could harm our new line of business and operating results, or could cause us to change our business model.. If Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office or courts implement new legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our business.  For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards for invalidating patents, increases in the cost to resolve patent disputes and other similar developments could negatively affect our ability to assert our patent or other intellectual property rights.. On December 5, 2013, the United States House of Representatives passed a patent reform titled the “Innovation Act” by a vote of 325-91.  Representative Bob Goodlatte, with bipartisan support, introduced the Innovation Act on October 23, 2013.  The Innovation Act, as passed by the House, has a number of major changes.  Some of the changes include a heightened pleading requirement for the filing of patent infringement claims.  It requires a particularized statement with detailed specificity regarding how each asserted claim term corresponds to the functionality of each accused instrumentality.  The Innovation Act, as passed by the House, also includes fee-shifting provisions which provide that, unless the non-prevailing party of a patent infringement litigation positions were objectively reasonable, such non-prevailing party would have to pay the attorney’s fees of the prevailing party.. The Innovation Act also calls for discovery to be limited until after claim construction.  The patent infringement plaintiff must also disclose anyone with a financial interest in either the asserted patent or the patentee and must disclose the ultimate parent entity.  When a manufacturer and its customers are sued at the same time, the suit against the customer would be stayed as long as the customer agrees to be bound by the results of the case.. On April 29, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court relaxed the standard for fee shifting in patent infringement cases.  Section 285 of the Patent Act provides that attorneys’ fees may be awarded to a prevailing party in a patent infringement case in “exceptional cases.”. In Octane Fitness, LLC v. Icon Health & Fitness, Inc., the Supreme Court overturned the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit decisions limiting the meaning of “exceptional cases.”  The U.S. Supreme Court held that an exceptional case “is simply one that stands out from others with respect to the substantive strength of a party’s litigation position” or “the unreasonable manner in which the case was litigated.”  The U.S. Supreme Court also rejected the “clear and convincing evidence” standard for making this inquiry.  The Court held that the standard should be a “preponderance of the evidence.”. In Highmark Inc. v. Allcare Health Mgmt. Sys., Inc., the U.S. Supreme Court held that a district court’s grant of attorneys’ fees is reviewable by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit only for “abuse of discretion” by the district court instead of the de novo standard that gave no deference to the district court.. This pair of decisions lowered the threshold for obtaining attorneys’ fees in patent infringement cases and increased the level of deference given to a district court’s fee-shifting determination.. These two cases will make it much easier for district courts to shift a prevailing party’s attorneys’ fees to a non-prevailing party if the district court believes that the case was weak or conducted in an abusive manner.  Defendants that get sued for patent infringement by non-practicing entities may elect to fight rather than settle the case because these U.S. Supreme Court decisions make it much easier for defendants to get attorneys’ fees.. 12. On June 19, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court decided Alice Corp. v. CLS Bank International in which the Court addressed the question of whether patents related to software are patent eligible subject matter.  The Supreme Court did not rule that patents related to software were per se invalid or that software-related inventions were unpatentable.  The Supreme Court outlined a test that the courts and the USPTO must apply in determining whether software-related inventions qualify as patent eligible subject matter.. Following in the wake of the Supreme Court’s Alice decision, the lower courts have operated with a lack of guidance regarding patent eligibility. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which has exclusive jurisdiction over patent appeals, has increasingly entered one-sentence orders under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 36, in which it upholds decisions of patent invalidity with no guidance as to why invalidity was upheld. For example, in each of the following appeals from the U.S. district courts involving substantial issues under the Alice doctrine, the Federal Circuit entered a Rule 36 order, saying only in one sentence that the district court record supported the entry of judgment below.. 1.     Becton     Dickinson and Co. v. Baxter Int’l Inc., Appeal No. 15-1918 (decided May 9, 2016) re: remote pharmacy monitoring.. 2.     IP     Learn-Focus, LLC. v. Microsoft Corp., Appeal No. 15-1863 (decided July 11, 2016) re: a computer learning system comprising     particular combinations of different types of sensors (e.g. optical sensors, nonoptical sensors and imaging sensors) and software     programming, applied to MS’s Kinect device.. 3.     Novo     Tranforma Techs. L.L.C. v. Sprint Spectrum, L. P., Appeal No. 15-2012 (decided September 23, 2016) re: a payload delivery     system that eliminates the incompatibility between different communication services employing different media for communicating     information.. 4.     Broadband     iTV Inc. v. Hawaiian Tele., Inc., Appeal No. 16-1082 (decided September 26, 2016) re: automated control of video-on-demand     technology.. 5.     Blue     Spike LLC v. Google, Inc., Appeal No. 16-1054 (decided October 10, 2016) re: alternatives to digital watermarking by creating     a “Signal Abstract”, a smaller digital representation of the digital signal that can be used for identification     purposes.. 6.     Concaten,     Inc. v. AmeriTrak Fleet Solutions, LLC, Appeal No. 16-1112 (decided October 11, 2016) re: a snow management system     where real-time data is collected from a plurality of working snowplows and that data was then used to optimize the routing     and operation of subsequent snowplow operations.. 7.     GT     Nexus, Inc. v. Inttra, Inc., Appeal No. 16-1267 (decided October 11, 2016) re: a computer network architecture called     “common carrier system” that integrates existing automated carrier booking and tracking systems and enables multiple     shippers and multiple carriers to communicate across a common platform.. 8.     Netflix     Inc. v. Rovi Corp., Appeal No. 15-1917 (decided November 7, 2016) re: automated viewing recommendations and book-marking     in interactive program guides.. 9.     American     Needle, Inc. v. Zazzle Inc., Appeal No. 16-1550 (decided November 10, 2016) re: selling objects online using a two-dimensional     format to preview merchandise in three dimensions.. 10.     Personalized     Media Commc’n LLC v. Amazon.com, Inc., Appeal No. 15-2008 (decided December 7, 2016) re: seven distinct network     control applications from seven different and patentably distinct patents.. 11.     MacroPoint     LLC v. FourKites Inc., Appeal No. 16-1286 (decided December 8, 2016) re: five vehicle tracking applications.. 12.     Voxathon     LLC v. FCA US LLC, Appeal No. 16-1614 (decided December 9, 2016) re: technology for allowing drivers to access telephone     calls through vehicle entertainment and data systems.. Several of the parties receiving these Rule 36 judgments have requested re-hearings, asking the Federal Circuit to provide Section 101 guidance en banc, but to date, none of these requests have taken up by the Court of Appeals.. On January 20, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court decided another patent case, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. v. Sandoz, Inc.  In Teva, the Court overturned the long-standing practice that claim construction decision made by district courts were given de novo review on appeal.  Instead, the Supreme Court held that when claim construction is based on extrinsic evidence, a district court’s findings of subsidiary facts are to be reviewed for clear error, while its ultimate claim construction is to be reviewed de novo.  This change in how claim construction decisions are reviewed on appeal may have an impact on how parties handle patent litigation in the district courts.  This could increase our litigation expenses. The full impact of the Teva decision on patent litigation at the district court level is yet to be determined.. On May 26, 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court decided Commil USA LLC v. Cisco Systems, Inc. In this case, the Supreme Court held that a good faith belief that a patent is invalid does not provide an accused infringer with a defense against a charge of inducing patent infringement. The Court stated that permitting such a defense would undermine the statutory presumption of validity enjoyed by issued U.S. patents under 35 U.S.C. § 282. The long-term effect of this ruling is yet to be seen as it is implemented by the district courts. However, this ruling has eliminated a defense available to parties accused of inducing patent infringement. This result could be beneficial to our patent enforcement efforts.. 13. On December 1, 2015, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure were amended to require a heightened pleading standard for a plaintiff when filing a patent infringement complaint. Prior to the amendment, patent complaints could follow the general pleading provided in the model patent complaint provided by Form 18. Form 18 has now been eliminated. Patent infringement complaints must now satisfy the pleading standards established by the Supreme Court’s landmark decisions in Twombly and Iqbal, which require a patent plaintiff to demonstrate that its claims are “plausible.” It may likely result in more challenges to the sufficiency of patent complaints, which will increase the cost of litigation. This requirement may also impact the amount of research that is required before a patent infringement complaint can be filed.. On May 22, 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court decided TC Heartland LLC v. Kraft Foods Group Brands LLC. In this case, the Supreme Court held that venue in patent cases is governed by 28 U.S.C. § 1400(b) and that patent infringement suits may only be brought in the district where the defendant is incorporated or where the defendant has committed acts of infringement and has a regular and established place of business. Prior to this decision, it had been appropriate as a matter of venue to bring a patent action in any district where the defendant was subject to personal jurisdiction. This ruling is expected to limit the number of districts in which a given defendant may be sued for patent infringement.. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become enacted as laws in their current or modified forms.  Compliance with any new or existing laws or regulations could be difficult and expensive, decrease the value of our intellectual property portfolio, increase the risk of unlicensed infringement of our intellectual property, or otherwise affect the manner in which we conduct our business and negatively impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Regulatory developments and pending litigation may render our business model less profitable and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may negotiate with leading technology companies to invest in, aggregate and acquire or in-license additional portfolios of patents and other intellectual property for monetization. Recent regulatory developments, as well as pending litigation in the industry that is continuing to establish new laws and rules for the licensing and/or assertion of patents, may make this business model more difficult to execute, more risky and/or less profitable. As noted, new draft legislation, if proposed and passed by Congress, might place more significant hurdles to the enforcement of our patent rights, allow defendants increased opportunities to challenge our patents in court and in the USPTO, and increase the risks and costs of patent litigation for all parties, including us. In addition, in various pending litigation and appeals in the United States Federal courts, various arguments and legal theories are being advanced to potentially limit the scope of damages a patent licensing company such as we might be entitled to. While we reject many of these arguments as improperly limiting the rights granted to legitimate patent holders under the Constitution and US patent laws, any one of these pending cases could result in new legal doctrines that could make our patent portfolios less valuable or more costly to enforce.. In addition, competition authorities in various countries and regions, as well as judicial actions in the United States and abroad are examining the rights and obligations of holders of standard essential patents (SEPs), and in some cases imposing restrictions and further obligations on the licensing and enforcement of SEPs. These changes in law and/or regulation may make our licensing programs more difficult, may render some or all SEP patents held by us unenforceable, or impose other restrictions, costs, impediments or harm to our patent portfolios.. We are exploring and evaluating strategic alternatives and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, or completing any strategic alternative or that any such strategic alternative will yield additional value for shareholders.. Our management and Board of Directors has commenced a review of strategic alternatives which could result in, among other things, a sale, a merger, consolidation or business combination, asset divestiture, partnering or other collaboration agreements, or potential acquisitions or recapitalizations, in one or more transactions, or continuing to operate with our current business plan and strategy. For example, on March 12, 2018, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger with DatChat, Inc. (“DatChat”), pursuant to which we will acquire 100% ownership of DatChat, which is a privately held personal privacy platform focused on encrypted communication, internet security and digital rights management. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in the identification or consummation of any transaction, and there can be no assurance that the transaction with DatChat will close. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives. The process of exploring strategic alternatives may be time consuming and disruptive to our business operations and if we are unable to effectively manage the process, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We also cannot assure you that any potential transaction or other strategic alternative, if identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to our shareholders than that reflected in the current stock price. Any potential transaction would be dependent upon a number of factors that may be beyond our control, including, among other factors, market conditions, industry trends, the interest of third parties in our business and the availability of financing to potential buyers on reasonable terms.. 14. Our acquisitions of patent assets may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets, which are critical to our business plan, are often time consuming, complex and costly to consummate.  We may elect to not pursue any additional patents while we focus our efforts on monetizing our existing assets.  We may utilize many different transaction structures in our acquisitions and the terms of such acquisition agreements tend to be heavily negotiated.  As a result, we expect to incur significant operating expenses and will likely be required to raise capital during the negotiations even if the acquisition is ultimately not consummated, or if we determine to acquire additional patents or other assets.  Even if we are able to acquire particular patent assets, there is no guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue related to those patent assets to offset the acquisition costs, and we may be required to pay significant amounts of deferred purchase price if we monetize those patents above certain thresholds.  While we will seek to conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patent assets we are considering for acquisition, we may acquire patent assets from a seller who does not have complete analysis of infringements or claims, have valid or sole title or ownership to those assets, or otherwise provides us with flawed ownership rights, including invalid or unenforceable assets.  In those cases, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend our interest in the patent assets and, if we are not successful, our acquisition may be worthless, in which case we could lose part or all of our investment in the assets.. We may also identify patent or other intellectual property assets that cost more than we are prepared to spend with our own capital resources.  We may incur significant costs to organize and negotiate a structured acquisition that does not ultimately result in an acquisition of any patent assets or, if consummated, proves to be unprofitable for us.  Acquisitions involving issuance of our securities could be dilutive to existing stockholders and could be at prices lower than those prices reflected in the trading markets.  These higher costs could adversely affect our operating results and, if we incur losses, the value of our securities will decline.  The integration of acquired assets may place a significant burden on management and our internal resources.  The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could harm our business.. In addition, we may acquire patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption.  Demand for some of these technologies will likely be untested and may be subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees or others adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services.  As a result, there can be no assurance as to whether technologies we acquire or develop will have value that can be realized through licensing or other activities.. We may be unsuccessful at integrating future acquisitions.. If we find appropriate opportunities in the future, we may acquire businesses to strategically increase the number of patents in our portfolio and pursue monetization. For example, on June 30, 2017, we acquired a stake in Hoth Therapeutics, Inc. (“Hoth”), a development stage biopharmaceutical company focused on unique targeted therapeutics for patients suffering from indications such as atopic dermatitis, also known as eczema. Hoth has a sublicense from Chelexa Biosciences, Inc. to use Chelexa’s BioLexa products for the treatment of eczema and such sublicense includes the right to further sublicense to third parties to make, use, have made, import, offer for sale and sell BioLexa products. There can be no guarantee that Hoth will be successful in its efforts to monetize its sublicense agreement with Chelexa. In addition, on March 12, 2018, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger with DatChat, pursuant to which we will acquire 100% ownership of DatChat, which is a privately held personal privacy platform focused on encrypted communication, internet security and digital rights management. There can be no guarantee that we will be successful in closing the transaction contemplated by the agreement with DatChat or that we will be successful in managing the operations of DatChat, which includes a recently launched messaging application for mobile smart phones that allows users to control sent messages on the recipient’s phone, among other capabilities.. 15. As we acquire businesses or substantial stakes in certain businesses, the process of integration may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, fail to result in expected synergies or other benefits and absorb significant attention of our management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. In addition, in the event of any future acquisitions, we may record a portion of the assets we acquire as goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets or finite-lived intangible assets. We do not amortize goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, but rather review them for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. The recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future earnings and cash flows. Changes in estimates, circumstances or conditions, resulting from both internal and external factors, could have a significant impact on our fair valuation determination, which could then have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any such acquisitions.. If the merger is completed, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the business of DatChat and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger.. Realization of the anticipated benefits in the merger with DatChat will depend on our ability to successfully integrate our businesses and operations with DatChat. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating its business practices, operations, and support functions. The process of integrating DatChat’s operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our business and financial performance, and in DatChat’s business and financial performance as well. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on the business, financial results.. Our stockholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger and will exercise less influence over our management and policies than they did prior to the Merger.. Our stockholders currently have the right to vote in the election of our board of directors on other matters affecting us. When the merger occurs, because of the issuance of shares of common stock to the DatChat shareholders, our current stockholders will hold a percentage ownership of the post-merger company that is much smaller than the stockholder’s current percentage ownership of ours. Because of this, our current stockholders will have less influence over the management and policies of the Company than they now have after the consummation of the merger.. The merger with DatChat is subject to certain conditions to closing that could result in the merger not being completed or being delayed, either of which could negatively impact its stock price and future business and results of operations.. Completion of the merger is subject to a number of customary conditions, including, but not limited to, the approval of the merger Agreement by the stockholders of DatChat and ours, and the effectiveness of an Form S-4 registration statement to be filed by us with the SEC to register the shares of our common stock to be issued in connection with the Merger. In addition, if any governmental authority shall have enacted, issued, promulgated or enforced any law or order which has the effect of making the transactions or agreements contemplated by the Merger Agreement illegal or which otherwise prevents or prohibits consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, DatChat may elect not to consummate the Merger. There is no assurance that we will satisfy the conditions necessary for completion of the merger. If any of the conditions to the merger are not satisfied or, where waiver is permissible, waived, the merger will not be consummated. Failure to complete the merger would prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the merger. We have already and expects to continue to incur significant costs associated with transaction fees, professional services, taxes and other costs related to the merger. In the event that the merger is not completed, we will remain liable for these costs and expenses. In addition, the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that the merger will occur, and a failure to complete the merger could result in a negative perception by the market of ours generally and a resulting decline in the market price of the our common stock. Any delay in the consummation of the merger or any uncertainty about the consummation of the merger could also negatively impact our stock price and future business and results of operations. The merger may not be consummated, there may be a delay in the consummation of the merger or the merger may not be consummated on the terms contemplated by the Merger Agreement.. 16. If we are unable to successfully monetize our patent assets, or if we cannot obtain sufficient capital to see our legal proceedings to fruition, our business model may be subject to change.. Our current business model of monetizing patent assets primarily through litigation against companies infringing on our intellectual property results in the potential for sporadic income. This makes us dependent on successful outcomes of our litigation claims, as well as obtaining financing from third-party sources to fund these litigations. If we are unable to generate revenue and are unable to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms, or if changes in law make our current business model infeasible, then we may determine to change our business model in a manner that would be anticipated to generate revenue on a more regular basis. If we determine to change our business model, it may be difficult to predict our future prospects. Furthermore, we may incur significant expenses in any such shift in business model, or our management may have to devote significant resources into developing, or may not be well suited for, any such new business model.. We have ongoing financial obligations to certain stockholders under the terms of our acquisition of certain patents from Rockstar. Our failure to comply with our obligations to these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the value of our assets, our financial performance and our ability to sustain operations.. Rockstar is entitled to receive a contingent recovery percentage of future profits from licensing, settlements and judgments against defendants with respect to patents purchased by us from Rockstar. In particular, once we recover a certain amount of proceeds pertaining to the patents acquired from Rockstar in July 2013, which amount will not exceed $8.0 million, net of certain expenses, we will be required to make a payment of up to $13.0 million to Rockstar within six months of such recovery.  Furthermore, once we recover a certain level of proceeds pertaining to each portfolio of patents we acquired from Rockstar, we will be required to make participation payments to RPX which, depending on how much we recover, could range from 30% of the amount we recover to 70% of the amount we recover in any given quarter, net of certain expenses.  Our ability to fund these payments, as well as other payments that may become due in respect of our additional acquisition of patents from Rockstar in December 2013, will depend on the liquidity of our assets, recoveries, alternative demands for cash resources and access to capital at the time.  Furthermore, our obligation to fund these payments could materially adversely impact our liquidity and financial position.. 17. In certain acquisitions of patent assets, we may seek to defer payment or finance a portion of the acquisition price.  This approach may put us at a competitive disadvantage and could result in harm to our business.. We have limited capital and may seek to negotiate acquisitions of patent or other intellectual property assets where we can defer payments, finance a portion of the acquisition price or have an obligation to make contingent payments upon recovery of value from those assets.  These types of debt financing, deferred payment or contingent arrangements may not be as attractive to sellers of patent assets as receiving the full purchase price for those assets in cash at the closing of the acquisition, and, as a result, we might not compete effectively against other companies in the market for acquiring patent assets, many of whom have greater cash resources than we have.  We may also finance our activities by issuance of debt which could require interest and amortization payments which we may not have the ability to repay, in which case we could be in default under the terms of loan agreements.  We may pledge our assets as collateral and if we are in default under our agreements, we could lose our assets through foreclosure or similar processes or become insolvent or bankrupt in which case investors could lose their entire investment.. Any failure to maintain or protect our patent assets or other intellectual property rights could significantly impair our return on investment from such assets and harm our brand, our business and our operating results.. Our ability to operate our new line of business and compete in the intellectual property market largely depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our acquired patent assets and other intellectual property.  To protect our proprietary rights, we will rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions.  No assurances can be given that any of the measures we undertake to protect and maintain our assets will have any measure of success.. We are required to spend significant time and resources to maintain the effectiveness of our assets by paying maintenance fees and making filings with the USPTO.  We may acquire patent assets, including patent applications, which require us to spend resources to prosecute the applications with the USPTO prior to issuance of patents.  Further, there is a material risk that patent related claims (such as, for example, infringement claims (and/or claims for indemnification resulting therefrom), unenforceability claims, or invalidity claims) will be asserted or prosecuted against us, and such assertions or prosecutions could materially and adversely affect our business.  For instance, in connection with inter partes review in our now-settled litigations with VTech and Uniden, the Patent Trial and Appeals Board has found that certain portions of the claims relating to certain of our patents are invalid. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be successfully asserted, defending such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities.. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, any of the following or similar occurrences may reduce the value of our intellectual property:. •     our     applications for patents, trademarks and copyrights may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated;•     issued     trademarks, copyrights, or patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages when compared to potentially infringing     other properties;•     our     efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology;     or•     our     efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or     superior to those we acquire and/or prosecute.. Moreover, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries where we may do business or enforce our patents against infringers in foreign countries.  If we fail to maintain, defend or prosecute our patent assets properly, the value of those assets would be reduced or eliminated, and our business would be harmed.. Weak global economic conditions may cause infringing parties to delay entering into licensing agreements, which could prolong our litigation and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Our business plan depends significantly on worldwide economic conditions, and the United States and world economies have recently experienced weak economic conditions.  Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values.  This response could have a material negative effect on the willingness of parties infringing on our assets to enter into licensing or other revenue generating agreements voluntarily.  Entering into such agreements is critical to our business plan, and our failure to do so could cause material harm to our business.. 18. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use, it could diminish the value of our products and services, weaken our competitive position and reduce our revenue.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to identify unauthorized use of our intellectual property.  We believe that our trade secrets and non-patented technology may be key to identifying and differentiating our products and services from those of our competitors.  We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights.  If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our products and services could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer.. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights.  Third-parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our property without authorization or develop similar information and property independently, which may infringe upon our proprietary rights.  We may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market before we do so, including situations which may damage our ability to succeed in licensing negotiations or legal proceedings such as patent infringement cases we may bring.  In addition, competitors may design around our technologies or develop competing technologies.  Intellectual property protection may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries.. If we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could be burdensome and expensive.  In addition, our proprietary rights could be at risk if we are unsuccessful in, or cannot afford to pursue, those proceedings, or that contingent fees could be a significant portion of our recovery.  We will also rely on trade secrets and contract law to protect some of our proprietary technology.  We will enter into confidentiality and invention agreements with inventors, employees and consultants and common interest agreements with parties associated with our litigation efforts.  Nevertheless, these agreements may not be honored and they may not effectively protect our right to our privileged, confidential or proprietary information or our patented or un-patented trade secrets and know-how.  Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how.. If we fail to manage our existing assets and patent inventory and third-party relationships (such as attorneys and experts) effectively, our revenue and profits could decline and should we fail to acquire additional revenues from license fees, our growth could be impeded.. Our success depends in part on our ability to manage our existing portfolios of patent assets and manage our third-party relationships necessary to monetize our assets effectively.  Our attorneys and experts are not bound by long-term contracts that ensure us consistent access to expertise necessary to enforce our patents, which is crucial to our ability to generate license revenues and prosecute infringers.  In addition, attorneys and experts can change the cost of the services they provide, such as contingent fees that we are required to pay, and our arrangements often require an increasing percentage of recoveries to be devoted to attorney’s fees depending on the length of time or stage of the case prior to settlement or recovery, reducing the residual amount available to us following conclusion of a case.  If an attorney, seller, inventor or expert decides not to provide needed assistance in connection with a case, or provides assistance to prospective licensees or defendants, we may not be able to timely replace this expertise with that from other sources or prevent such assistance to others from damaging our claims and prospects for recovery or licensing thus resulting in potentially lost cases, opportunities, or revenues and potentially diminishing the value of our patent assets.  The ability to utilize attorneys, sellers’ personnel, inventors or experts will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control.. We may be unable to issue securities under our shelf registration statement, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity.. We have filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC.  The registration statement, which has been declared effective, was filed in reliance on Instruction I.B.6. of Form S-3, which imposes a limitation on the maximum amount of securities that we may sell pursuant to the registration statement during any twelve-month period.  At the time we sell securities pursuant to the registration statement, the amount of securities to be sold plus the amount of any securities we have sold during the prior twelve months in reliance on Instruction I.B.6. may not exceed one-third of the aggregate market value of our outstanding common stock held by non-affiliates as of a day during the 60 days immediately preceding such sale as computed in accordance with Instruction I.B.6. Whether we sell securities under the registration statement will depend on a number of factors, including availability of our existing S-3 under the 1/3 limitation calculations set forth in Instruction I.B.6 of Form S-3, the market conditions at that time, our cash position at that time and the availability and terms of alternative sources of capital.  Furthermore, Instruction I.B.6. of Form S-3 requires that the issuer have at least one class of common equity securities listed and registered on a national securities exchange. If we are not able to maintain compliance with applicable NASDAQ rules, we will no longer be able to rely upon that Instruction. If we cannot sell securities under our shelf registration, we may be required to utilize more costly and time-consuming means of accessing the capital markets, which could materially adversely affect our liquidity and cash position.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. We face evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty.. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices.  Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time towards maintaining compliance with these requirements. These rules, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies.  This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.  We intend to invest the resources necessary to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.  If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, which could be costly and time-consuming, and our reputation and business may be harmed.. 19. Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market if we fail to comply with continued listing standards.. Our common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “SPEX.”  If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market.  These continued listing standards include specifically enumerated criteria, such as:. •     a     $1.00 minimum closing bid price;•     stockholders’     equity of $2.5 million;•     500,000     shares of publicly-held common stock with a market value of at least $1 million;•     300     round-lot stockholders; and•     compliance     with NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements, as well as additional or more stringent criteria that may be applied     in the exercise of NASDAQ’s discretionary authority.. On March 24, 2015, we received a deficiency notice from NASDAQ that the bid price of our common stock no longer met NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements.  According to the notice, in order to regain compliance with the NASDAQ listing rules, our common stock would need to have a closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive trading days no later than September 21, 2015. On September 22, 2015, we received a letter from NASDAQ granting us an additional 180 days, or until March 21, 2016, to regain compliance. On March 4, 2016, our common stock underwent a 1-for-19 reverse stock split. As of the close of trading on March 17, 2016, the closing bid price of our common stock was at least $1.00 per share for 10 consecutive trading days and, accordingly, we regained compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance in the future. In particular, our share price may continue to decline for a number of reasons, including many that are beyond our control. See “Our share price may be volatile and there may not be an active trading market for our common stock”.. If we fail to comply with NASDAQ’s continued listing standards, we may be delisted and our common stock will trade, if at all, only on the over-the-counter market, such as the OTC Bulletin Board or OTCQX market, and then only if one or more registered broker-dealer market makers comply with quotation requirements.  In addition, delisting of our common stock could depress our stock price, substantially limit liquidity of our common stock and materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Further, delisting of our common stock would likely result in our common stock becoming a “penny stock” under the Exchange Act.. Our share price may be volatile and there may not be an active trading market for our common stock.. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not decline below its present market price or that there will be an active trading market for our common stock. The market prices of technology or technology related companies have been and are likely to continue to be highly volatile. Fluctuations in our operating results and general market conditions for technology or technology related stocks could have a significant impact on the volatility of our common stock price. We have experienced significant volatility in the price of our common stock. From January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017, the share price of our common stock (on a split-adjusted basis) ranged from a high of $3.92 to a low of $0.87. The reason for the volatility in our stock is not well understood and may continue.  Factors that may have contributed to such volatility include, but are not limited to:. •     developments     regarding regulatory filings;•     our     funding requirements and the terms of our financing arrangements;•     technological     innovations;•     introduction     of new technologies by us or our competitors;•     material     changes in existing litigation;•     changes     in the enforceability or other matters surrounding our patent portfolios;•     government     regulations and laws;•     public     sentiment relating to our industry;•     developments     in patent or other proprietary rights;•     the     number of shares issued and outstanding;•     the     number of shares trading on an average trading day;•     performance     of companies in the non-performing entity space generally;. 20. •     announcements     regarding other participants in the technology and technology related industries, including our competitors;•     block     sales of our shares by stockholders to whom we have sold stock in private placements, or the cessation of transfer restrictions     with respect to those shares; and•     market     speculation regarding any of the foregoing.. We could fail in future financing efforts or be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market if we fail to receive stockholder approval when needed.. We are required under the NASDAQ rules to obtain stockholder approval for any issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding before the issuance of such securities sold at a discount to the greater of book or market value in an offering that is not deemed to be a “public offering” by NASDAQ. Funding of our operations and acquisitions of assets may require issuance of additional equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding, but we might not be successful in obtaining the required stockholder approval for such an issuance. If we are unable to obtain financing due to stockholder approval difficulties, such failure may have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations.. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded and, as a result, stockholders may be unable to sell at or near ask prices, or at all, if they need to sell shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate their shares.. Our common stock has been “thinly-traded” meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company that is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we become more seasoned and viable. Our trading volumes are further adversely affected by the 1-for-19 reverse stock split that was effective as of March 4, 2016. In addition, we believe that due to the limited number of shares of our common stock outstanding, an options market has not been established for our common stock, limiting the ability of market participants to hedge or otherwise undertake trading strategies available for larger companies with broader shareholder bases which prevents institutions and others from acquiring or trading in our securities. Consequently, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give stockholders any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common shares will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained.. Because of the Rights Agreement and “anti-takeover” provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, a third party may be discouraged from making a takeover offer that could be beneficial to our stockholders.. Effective as of January 24, 2013, we adopted a shareholder rights plan which was amended and restated as of June 9, 2017. The effect of this rights plan and of certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws, and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or replacing members of our Board of Directors, or make more costly any attempt to acquire control of the Company, even if the acquisition or the Board designees would be beneficial to our stockholders. These factors could also reduce the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of the common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions.. In addition, defendants in actions seeking to enforce our patents may seek to influence our Board of Directors and stockholders by acquiring positions in the Company to force consideration of settlement or licensing proposals that may be less desirable than other outcomes such as litigation with respect to our monetization or patent enforcement activities. The effect of such influences on our Company or our corporate governance could reduce the value of our monetization activities and have an adverse effect on the value of our assets. The effect of anti-takeover provisions could impact the ability of prospective defendants to obtain influence in the Company or representation on the Board of Directors or acquire a significant ownership position and such result may have an adverse effect on the Company and the value of its securities.. Dividends on our common stock are not likely.. During the last five years, we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.  Investors must look solely to the potential for appreciation in the market price of the shares of our common stock to obtain a return on their investment.. 21. It may be difficult to predict our financial performance because our quarterly operating results may fluctuate.. Our revenues, operating results and valuations of certain assets and liabilities may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Our results of operations may fall below the expectations of market analysts and our own forecasts. If this happens, the market price of our common stock may fall significantly. The factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following:. •     fluctuations     in results of our enforcement and licensing activities or outcome of cases;•     fluctuations     in duration of judicial processes and time to completion of cases;•     the     timing and amount of expenses incurred to negotiate with licensees and obtain settlements from infringers;•     the     impact of our anticipated need for personnel and expected substantial increase in headcount;•     fluctuations     in the receptiveness of courts and juries to significant damages awards in patent infringement cases and speed to trial in     the jurisdictions in which our cases may be brought and the accepted royalty rates attributable to damages analysis for patent     cases generally, including the royalty rates for industry standard patents which we may own or acquire;•     worsening     economic conditions which cause revenues or profits attributable to infringer sales of products or services to decline;•     changes     in the regulatory environment, including regulation of NPE activities or patenting practices, that may negatively impact our     or infringers practices;•     the     timing and amount of expenses associated with litigation, regulatory investigations or restructuring activities, including     settlement costs and regulatory penalties assessed related to government enforcement actions;•     Any     changes we make in our Critical Accounting Estimates described in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial     Condition and Results of Operations sections of our periodic reports;•     the     adoption of new accounting pronouncements, or new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, that impact the manner     in which we account for, measure or disclose our results of operations, financial position or other financial measures; and•     costs     related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses.. If we fail to retain our key personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer.. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel and the continued contributions of our executive officers, each of whom may be difficult to replace. In particular, Anthony Hayes, our Chief Executive Officer, is important to the management of our business and operations and the development of our strategic direction. The loss of the services of any such individual and the process to replace any key personnel would involve significant time and expense and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.. Because an increasing amount of our outstanding shares may become freely tradable, sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding 6,234,898 shares of common stock, of which our directors and executive officers owned 114,253 shares which are subject to the limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act.. In general, Rule 144 provides that any non-affiliate of ours, who has held restricted common stock for at least six-months, is entitled to sell their restricted stock freely, provided that we are then current in our filings with the SEC.. An affiliate of the Company may sell after six months with the following restrictions:. •     we     are current in our filings,•     certain     manner of sale provisions,•     filing     of Form 144, and•     volume     limitations limiting the sale of shares within any three-month period to a number of shares that does not exceed the greater     of 1% of the total number of outstanding shares or, the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks preceding     the filing of a notice of sale.. Because almost all of our outstanding shares are freely tradable (subject to certain restrictions imposed by lockup agreements executed by the holders thereof) and the shares held by our affiliates may be freely sold (subject to the Rule 144 limitations), sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well."
