[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties set forth below are those that we currently believe may materially and adversely affect us, our future business or results of operations, our industry, or investments in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially and adversely affect us, our future business or results of operations, or investments in our securities.. Risk Factors Related to Our Company. Because we depend on Boeing and, to a lesser extent, Airbus, as our largest customers, our sales, cash flows from operations, and results of operations will be negatively affected if either Boeing or Airbus reduces the number of products it purchases from us or if either experiences business difficulties or breaches its obligations to us.. Currently, Boeing is our largest customer and Airbus is our second-largest customer. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, approximately 79% (down from 81% in 2016) and 16% (up from 15% in 2016) of our net revenues were generated from sales to Boeing and Airbus, respectively. Although our strategy, in part, is to diversify our customer base by entering into supply arrangements with additional customers, we cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in doing so. Even if we are successful in obtaining and retaining new customers, we expect that Boeing and, to a lesser extent, Airbus, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our sales for the foreseeable future.. Although we are a party to various supply contracts with Boeing and Airbus which obligate Boeing and Airbus to purchase all of their requirements for certain products from us, those agreements generally do not require specific minimum purchase volumes. In addition, if we breach certain obligations under these supply agreements and Boeing or Airbus exercises its right to terminate such agreements, our business will be materially adversely affected. Further, if we are unable to perform our obligations under these supply agreements to the customer's satisfaction, Boeing or Airbus could seek damages from us, which could materially adversely affect our business. Boeing and Airbus also have the contractual right to cancel their supply agreements with us for convenience, which could include the termination of one or more aircraft models or programs for which we supply products. Although Boeing and Airbus would be required to reimburse us for certain expenses, there can be no assurance these payments would adequately cover our expenses or lost profits resulting from the termination. In addition, we have agreed to a limitation on. 13. Table of Contents. recoverable damages if Boeing wrongfully terminates our main supply agreement with respect to any model or program. If this occurs, we may not be able to recover the full amount of our actual damages. Furthermore, if Boeing or Airbus (1) experiences a decrease in requirements for the products which we supply to it; (2) experiences a major disruption in its business, such as a strike, work stoppage or slowdown, a supply-chain problem, or a decrease in orders from its customers; (3) files for bankruptcy protection; or (4) fails to perform its contractual obligations under its agreements with us; our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our business depends, in large part, on sales of components for a single aircraft program, the B737.. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, approximately 49% of our net revenues were generated from sales of components to Boeing for the B737 aircraft. While we have entered into long-term supply agreements with Boeing to continue to provide components for the B737 for the life of the aircraft program, including commercial and the military P-8 derivatives, Boeing does not have any obligation to purchase components from us for any replacement for the B737 that is not a commercial derivative model as defined by the Sustaining Agreement. If we were unable to obtain significant aerostructures supply business for any B737 replacement program, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our business depends, in part, on securing work for replacement programs.. While we have entered into long-term supply agreements with respect to the Sustaining Programs, Boeing does not have any obligation to purchase components from us for any subsequent variant of these aircraft that is not a commercial derivative as defined by the Sustaining Agreement. Boeing is updating the B777 with a next-generation twin-engine aircraft program currently named the B777X.  If the changes to the aircraft are later deemed significant enough to disqualify it as a commercial derivative of the B777 under the Sustaining Agreement, or Boeing successfully establishes it is not capable of being FAA certificated by amendment to an existing Type Certification through addition of a new minor model or by a Supplemental Type Certificate, there is a risk that we may not be engaged by Boeing on the B777X to generally the same extent of Spirit's involvement on the B777, or at all.  If we are unable to obtain significant aerostructures supply business for the B777X or any other aircraft program for which we provide significant content, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We face risks as we work to successfully execute on new or maturing programs.. New or maturing programs with new technologies typically carry risks associated with design responsibility, development of new production tools, hiring and training of qualified personnel, increased capital and funding commitments, ability to meet customer specifications, delivery schedules, and unique contractual requirements, supplier performance, ability of the customer to meet its contractual obligations to us, and our ability to accurately estimate costs associated with such programs. In addition, any new or maturing aircraft program may not generate sufficient demand or may experience technological problems or significant delays in the regulatory certification or manufacturing and delivery schedule. If we were unable to perform our obligations under new or maturing programs to the customer's satisfaction or manufacture products at our estimated costs, if we were to experience unexpected fluctuations in raw material prices or supplier problems leading to cost overruns, if we were unable to successfully perform under revised design and manufacturing plans or successfully resolve claims and assertions, or if a new or maturing program in which we had made a significant investment was terminated or experienced weak demand, delays or technological problems, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Some of these risks have affected our maturing programs to the extent that we have recorded significant forward losses and maintain certain of our maturing programs at zero or low margins due to our inability to overcome the effects of these risks. We continue to face similar risks as well as the potential for default, quality problems, or inability to meet weight requirements and these could result in continued zero or low margins or additional forward losses, and the risk of having to write-off additional inventory if it were deemed to be unrecoverable over the life of the program. In addition, beginning new work on existing programs also carries risks associated with the transfer of technology, knowledge, and tooling.. In order to perform on new or maturing programs we may be required to construct or acquire new facilities requiring additional up-front investment costs. In the case of significant program delays and/or program cancellations, we could be required to bear certain unrecoverable construction and maintenance costs and incur potential impairment charges for the new facilities. Also, we may need to expend additional resources to determine an alternate revenue-generating use for the facilities. Likewise, significant delays in the construction or acquisition of a plant site could impact production schedules.. We use estimates in accounting for revenue and cost for our contract blocks. Changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial performance.. The Company recognizes revenue under the contract method of accounting and estimates revenue and cost for contract blocks that span a period of multiple years.  The contract method of accounting requires judgment on a number of underlying assumptions to develop our estimates. Due to the significant length of time over which revenue streams are generated, the variability of future. 14. Table of Contents. period estimated revenue and cost may be adversely affected if circumstances or underlying assumptions change.  For additional information on our accounting policies for recognizing revenue and profit, please see our discussion under \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies\" in this Form 10-K.. Additionally, variability of future period estimated revenue and cost may result in recording additional valuation allowances against future deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect our future financial performance.. Our fixed-price contracts and price negotiations under existing contracts may commit us to unfavorable terms that may require us to declare forward losses in the future.. We provide most of our products and services through long-term contracts in which the pricing terms are fixed on the date we enter into the contract. Many of these contracts incorporate cost curves that allow for the pricing to decrease as the program matures. These cost curves are based on various assumptions, such as favorable trends in volume, learning curve efficiencies, and future pricing from suppliers that reduce our production costs. However, several factors may cause the costs we incur in fulfilling these contracts to vary substantially from our original estimates such as technical problems, delivery reductions, materials shortages, supplier difficulties, and multiple other events. Other than certain increases in raw material costs that can generally be passed on to our customers, in most instances we must fully absorb cost overruns. If our estimated costs exceed our estimated revenues under a fixed-price contract, we will be required to recognize a forward loss on the affected program, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The risk particularly applies to products such as the B787, in that our performance at the contracted price depends on our being able to achieve production cost reductions as we gain production experience.. Further, some of our long-term supply agreements, such as the Sustaining Agreement and the B787 Agreement, provide for the re-negotiation of established pricing terms at specified times. If such negotiations result in costs that exceed our revenue under a fixed-price contract, we may need to recognize a forward loss on the affected program, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. If we agree on future pricing that provides us with operating margins that are lower than our current margins, or if we are unable to agree on future pricing terms and the default pricing terms remain in effect for an extended period of time, we may need to record a forward loss on one or more programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our business could be materially adversely affected by product warranty obligations or defective product claims.. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the products and services we provide. Our operations expose us to potential liabilities for warranty or other claims with respect to aircraft components that have been designed, manufactured, or serviced by us or our suppliers. We maintain insurance for certain risks. The amount of our insurance coverage may not cover all claims or liabilities and we may be forced to bear substantial costs. Material obligations in excess of our insurance coverage (or other third party indemnification) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In addition, if our products are found to be defective and lacking in quality, or if one of our products causes an accident, our reputation could be damaged and our ability to retain and attract customers could be materially adversely affected.. We may be required to repay Boeing advanced payments in the event Boeing does not take delivery of a sufficient number of shipsets prior to the termination of the aircraft program.. Boeing has made advance payments to Spirit under the B787 Agreement. Advance payments are required to be repaid to Boeing by way of offset against the purchase price for future shipset deliveries. Advance repayments were scheduled to be spread evenly over the remainder of the first 1,000 B787 shipsets delivered to Boeing, except that advance repayments were suspended from April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015 and any repayments that otherwise would have become due during such 12-month period will be made by offset against the purchase price for shipset 1,001 through 1,120. In the event Boeing does not take delivery of a sufficient number of shipsets to repay the full amount of advances prior to the termination of the B787 program or the B787 Agreement, any advances not then repaid will be applied against any outstanding payments then due by Boeing to us, and any remaining balance will be repaid in annual installments of $42.0 million on December 15th of each year until the advance payments have been fully recovered by Boeing.. Accordingly, portions of the advance repayment liability are included as current and long-term liabilities in our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2017, the amount of advance payments received by us from Boeing under the B787 Agreement were approximately $331.6 million.. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could harm our business.. 15. Table of Contents. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, manufacturing, and engineering positions. Competition for experienced employees in the aerospace industry, and in particular in Wichita, Kansas where the majority of our manufacturing and executive offices are located, is intense. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and share-based compensation. A significant portion of our cash-based incentive compensation is conditioned on our achievement of certain designated financial performance targets, and a portion of our share-based incentive awards is conditioned on our achievement of certain designated financial performance targets and our stock price performance, which makes the size of a particular year's awards uncertain.  If employees do not receive share-based incentive awards with a value they anticipate, if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. The failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our human resource talent pool may not be adequate to support our growth.. The Company's operations and strategy require that we employ a critical mass of highly skilled employees. Specifically, we need employees with industry experience and engineering, technical, or mechanical skills. As the Company experiences an increase in retirements, the level of skill replacing our experienced workers is being impacted due to the availability of skilled labor in the market and low unemployment rates.  Talent is being replaced with less experienced talent and the organization is having to grow our own to meet the talent gap.  We continue to work with learning institutions to develop programs to attract and train new talent.  Our inability to attract and retain skilled employees may adversely impact our ability to meet our customers' expectations, the cost and schedule of development projects and the cost and efficiency of existing operations.. The profitability of certain of programs depends significantly on the assumptions surrounding satisfactory settlement of claims and assertions.. For certain of our programs, we regularly commence work or incorporate customer requested changes prior to negotiating pricing terms for engineering work or the product which has been modified. We typically have the contractual right to negotiate pricing for customer directed changes. In those cases, we assert to our customers our contractual rights to obtain the additional revenue or cost reimbursement we expect to receive upon finalizing pricing terms. An expected recovery value of these assertions is incorporated into our contract profitability estimates when applying contract accounting. Our inability to recover these expected values, among other factors, could result in the recognition of a forward loss on these programs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain continuing, uninterrupted production at our manufacturing facilities and our suppliers' facilities. Our production facilities and our suppliers' facilities are subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production.. Our manufacturing facilities or our suppliers' manufacturing facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, war, terrorist activity, interruption of utilities, or sustained mechanical failure. Although we have obtained property damage and business interruption insurance where appropriate, a sustained mechanical failure of a key piece of equipment, major catastrophe (such as a fire, flood, tornado, hurricane, major snow storm, or other natural disaster), war, or terrorist activities in any of the areas where we or our suppliers conduct operations could result in a prolonged interruption of all or a substantial portion of our business. Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers and we may not have insurance to adequately compensate us for any of these events. A large portion of our operations takes place at one facility in Wichita, Kansas and any significant damage or disruption to this facility in particular would materially adversely affect our ability to service our customers.. The Company maintains broad insurance coverage for both property damage and business interruption where appropriate. While the Company expects the insurance proceeds would be sufficient to cover most of the business interruption expenses, certain deductibles and limitations will apply and no assurance can be made that all recovery costs will be covered.. Any future business combinations, acquisitions, mergers, or joint ventures will expose us to risks, including the risk that we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses or achieve expected operating synergies.. We actively consider strategic transactions from time to time. We evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances, and co-production programs as opportunities arise, and we may be engaged in varying levels of negotiations with potential candidates at any time. We may not be able to effect transactions with strategic alliance, acquisition, or co-production program candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we enter into these transactions, we also may not realize the benefits we anticipate. In. 16. Table of Contents. addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for these transactions. The integration of companies that have previously been operated separately involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to:. • demands on management related to the increase in size after the transaction;. • the diversion of management's attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations;. • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees;. • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of geographically dispersed operations and personnel, who may speak different languages;. • difficulties combining operations that use different currencies or operate under different legal structures and laws;. • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems (including accounting, production, ERP, and IT systems), technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal accounting controls), procedures, and policies;. • compliance with applicable competition laws;. • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other applicable anti-bribery laws;. • and constraints (contractual or otherwise) limiting our ability to consolidate, rationalize and/or leverage supplier arrangements to achieve integration.. Consummating any acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances, or co-production programs could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense, as well as unforeseen contingent liabilities.. We actively consider divestitures from time to time. Engagement in divestiture activity could disrupt our business and present risks not contemplated at the time of the divestiture.. Divestitures which we may pursue could involve numerous potential risks, including the following:. • difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel;. • diversion of resources and management's attention from the operation of our business;. • loss of key employees;. • damage to our existing customer, supplier, and other business relationships;. • negative effects on our reported results of operations from disposition-related charges, amortization expenses related to intangibles, and/or charges for impairment of long-term assets;. • the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestiture; and. • the expenditure of substantial legal and other fees, which may be incurred whether or not a transaction is consummated.. As a result of the aforementioned risks, among others, the pursuit of any divestiture may not lead to increased stockholder value.. Future commitments to our customers to increase production rates depend on our ability to expand production at our manufacturing facilities.. Boeing and Airbus, our two largest customers, have both announced planned production rate increases for several of their major programs. In some cases, in order to meet these increases in production rates, we will need to make significant capital expenditures to expand our capacity and improve our performance or find alternative solutions such as outsourcing some of our existing work to free up additional capacity. While some of these expenditures will be reimbursed by our customers, we could be required to bear a significant portion of the costs. In addition, the increases in production rates could cause disruptions in our manufacturing lines, which could materially adversely impact our ability to meet our commitments to our customers, and have a resulting adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We do not own most of the intellectual property and tooling used in our business.. Our business depends on using certain intellectual property and tooling that we have rights to use under license grants from Boeing. These licenses contain restrictions on our use of Boeing intellectual property and tooling and may be terminated if we default under certain of these restrictions. If Boeing terminates our licenses to use Boeing intellectual property or tooling as a result of default or otherwise, or fails to honor its obligations under certain licenses, our business would be materially affected. See \"Business-Our Relationship with Boeing-License of Intellectual Property.\" In addition to the licenses with Boeing, we license some of the intellectual property needed for performance under some of our supply contracts from our customers under those supply agreements. We must honor our contractual commitments to our customers related to intellectual property and comply with infringement laws governing our use of intellectual property. In the event we obtain new business from new or existing customers, we will need to pay particular attention to these contractual commitments and any other restrictions on our use of intellectual property to make sure that we will not be using intellectual property improperly in the performance of such new business. In the. 17. Table of Contents. event we use any such intellectual property improperly, we could be subject to an infringement or misappropriation claim by the owner or licensee of such intellectual property.. In the future, our entry into new markets may require obtaining additional license grants from Boeing and/or from other third parties. If we are unable to negotiate additional license rights on acceptable terms (or at all) from Boeing and/or other third parties as the need arises, our ability to enter new markets may be materially restricted. In addition, we may be subject to restrictions in future licenses granted to us that may materially restrict our use of third party intellectual property.. Our success depends in part on the success of our research and development initiatives.. We spent $31.2 million on research and development during the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. Our expenditures on our research and development efforts may not create any new sales opportunities or increases in productivity that are commensurate with the level of resources invested.. We are in the process of developing specific technologies and capabilities in pursuit of new business and in anticipation of customers going forward with new programs. If any such programs do not go forward or are not successful, or if we are unable to generate sufficient new business, we may be unable to recover the costs incurred in anticipation of such programs or business and our profitability and revenues may be materially adversely affected.. We will need to expend significant capital to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The aerospace industry is constantly undergoing development and change. In order for us to remain competitive, we will need to expend significant capital to research and develop technologies, purchase new equipment and machines, or to train our employees in the new methods of production and service. We may not be successful in developing new products and these capital expenditures may have a material adverse effect on us.. We could be required to make future contributions to our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans as a result of adverse changes in interest rates and the capital markets.. Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pensions and other post-retirement benefits incorporate significant assumptions including the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, the long-term rate of return on plan assets, and several assumptions relating to the employee workforce (salary increases, medical costs, retirement age, and mortality). A dramatic decrease in the fair value of our plan assets resulting from movements in the financial markets may cause the status of our plans to go from an over-funded status to an under-funded status and result in cash funding requirements to meet any minimum required funding levels. Our results of operations, liquidity, or shareholders' equity in a particular period could be affected by a decline in the rate of return on plan assets, the rate used to discount the future estimated liability, or changes in employee workforce assumptions.. We derive a significant portion of our net revenues from direct and indirect sales outside the U.S. and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales by Boeing and Airbus to customers outside the U.S. In addition, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, direct sales to our non-U.S. customers accounted for approximately 18% of our net revenues. We expect that our and our customers' international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including:. • changes in regulatory requirements;. • domestic and foreign government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants;. • uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees;. • imposition of tariffs and embargos, export controls, and other trade restrictions;. • the difficulty of management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries;. • compliance with a variety of foreign laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other applicable anti-bribery laws; and. • economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including domestic or international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships, and military and political alliances.. While these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, adverse developments in one or more of these areas could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future.. The outcome of litigation and of government inquiries and investigations involving our business is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. We are involved in a number of litigation matters. These claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations. No assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of any of these lawsuits could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we are sometimes subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business due, among other things, to the heavily regulated nature of our industry and our participation on government programs. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against us, which could have a material impact on our financial position and operating results.. Increases in labor costs, potential labor disputes, and work stoppages at our facilities or the facilities of our suppliers or customers could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. Our financial performance is affected by the availability of qualified personnel and the cost of labor. A majority of our workforce is represented by unions. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could cause us to be unable to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis and could result in a breach of our supply agreements. This could result in a loss of business and an increase in our operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our non-unionized labor force may become subject to labor union organizing efforts, which could cause us to incur additional labor costs and increase the related risks that we now face.. Due to the receipt of occasional government incentives, we have certain commitments to keep our programs in their current locations. This may prevent us from being able to offer our products at prices that are competitive in the marketplace and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate new business.. In addition, many aircraft manufacturers, airlines, and aerospace suppliers have unionized work forces. Any strikes, work stoppages, or slowdowns experienced by aircraft manufacturers, airlines, or aerospace suppliers could reduce our customers' demand for additional aircraft structures or prevent us from completing production of our aircraft structures.. We operate in a very competitive business environment.. Competition in the aerostructures segment of the aerospace industry is intense. We face substantial competition from both OEMs and non-OEM aerostructures suppliers in trying to expand our customer base and the types of parts we make.. OEMs may choose not to outsource production of aerostructures due to, among other things, their own direct labor and other overhead considerations and capacity utilization at their own facilities. Consequently, traditional factors affecting competition, such as price and quality of service, may not be significant determinants when OEMs decide whether to produce a part in-house or to outsource.. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do and, therefore, may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Providers of aerostructures have traditionally competed on the basis of cost, technology, quality, and service. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage will require continued investment in product development, engineering, supply-chain management, and sales and marketing, and we may not have enough resources to make such investments. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully in this market or against our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. High switching costs may substantially limit our ability to obtain business that is currently under contract with other suppliers.. Once a contract is awarded by an OEM to an aerostructures supplier, the OEM and the supplier are typically required to spend significant amounts of time and capital on design, manufacture, testing and certification of tooling and other equipment. For an OEM to change suppliers during the life of an aircraft program, further testing and certification would be necessary, and the OEM would be required either to move the tooling and equipment used by the existing supplier for performance under the existing contract, which may be expensive and difficult (or impossible), or to manufacture new tooling and equipment. Additionally, in some cases, the existing incumbent supplier may have proprietary designs, know-how, processes, or technologies. Accordingly, any change of suppliers would likely result in production delays and additional costs to both the OEM and the new supplier. These high switching costs may make it more difficult for us to bid competitively against existing suppliers and less likely that an OEM will be willing to switch suppliers during the life of an aircraft program, which could materially adversely affect our ability to obtain new work on existing aircraft programs.. Our business may be materially adversely affected if we lose our government, regulatory or industry approvals, if we lose our facility security clearance, if more stringent government regulations are enacted, or if industry oversight is increased.. 19. Table of Contents. The FAA prescribes standards and qualification requirements for aerostructures, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products, and licenses component repair stations within the U.S. Comparable agencies, such as the EASA in Europe, regulate these matters in other countries. If we fail to qualify for or obtain a required license for one of our products or services or lose a qualification or license previously granted, the sale of the subject product or service would be prohibited by law until such license is obtained or renewed and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, designing new products to meet existing regulatory requirements and retrofitting installed products to comply with new regulatory requirements can be expensive and time consuming.. A facility security clearance is required for a company to be awarded and perform on classified contracts for the Department of Defense (\"DOD\") and certain other agencies of the U.S. Government. We have obtained a facility clearance at the \"Secret\" level (\"FCL\"). If we were to violate the terms and requirements of the NISPOM or any other applicable U.S. Government industrial security regulations, we could lose our FCL. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to maintain our FCL. If for some reason our FCL is invalidated or terminated, we may not be able to continue to perform under our classified contracts in effect at that time, and we would not be able to enter into new classified contracts, which could adversely affect our revenues.. In addition, our growth objectives in the defense business may be materially adversely affected by the ability to obtain government security clearances for our existing employees and new hires.. From time to time, government agencies propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations. These changes or new regulations generally increase the costs of compliance. To the extent the agencies implement regulatory changes, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance.. In addition, certain aircraft repair activities we intend to engage in may require the approval of the aircraft's OEM. Our inability to obtain OEM approval could materially restrict our ability to perform such aircraft repair activities.. Risk Factors Related to Our Industry. Our commercial business is cyclical and sensitive to commercial airlines' profitability. The business of commercial airlines is, in turn, affected by global economic conditions and geo-political considerations.. We compete in the aerostructures segment of the aerospace industry. Our customers' business, and therefore our own, is directly affected by the financial condition of commercial airlines and other economic factors, including global economic conditions and geo-political considerations that affect the demand for air transportation. Specifically, our commercial business is dependent on the demand from passenger airlines and cargo carriers for the production of new aircraft. Accordingly, demand for our commercial products is tied to the worldwide airline industry's ability to finance the purchase of new aircraft and the industry's forecasted demand for seats, flights, routes, and cargo capacity. Availability of financing to non-U.S. customers depends in part on the continued operations of the U.S. Export-Import Bank. Additionally, the size and age of the worldwide commercial aircraft fleet affects the demand for new aircraft and, consequently, for our products. Such factors, in conjunction with evolving economic conditions, cause the market in which we operate to be cyclical to varying degrees, thereby affecting our business and operating results.. The commercial airline industry is impacted by the strength of the global economy and the geopolitical events around the world. Possible exogenous shocks such as expanding conflicts or political unrest in the Middle East or Asia, renewed terrorist attacks against the industry, or pandemic health crises have the potential to cause precipitous declines in air traffic. Any protracted economic slump, adverse credit market conditions, future terrorist attacks, war, or health concerns could cause airlines to cancel or delay the purchase of additional new aircraft which could result in a deterioration of commercial airplane backlogs. If demand for new aircraft decreases, there would likely be a decrease in demand for our commercial aircraft products, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our business is subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally.. 20. Table of Contents. The manufacturing of our products is subject to numerous federal, state, and foreign governmental regulations. The number of laws and regulations that are being enacted or proposed by various governmental bodies and authorities are increasing. Compliance with these regulations is difficult and expensive. If we fail to adhere, or are alleged to have failed to adhere, to any applicable federal, state, or foreign laws or regulations, or if such laws or regulations negatively affect sales of our products, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, our future results could be adversely affected by changes in applicable federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, including those relating to manufacturing processes, product liability, government contracts, trade rules and customs regulations, intellectual property, consumer laws, privacy laws, as well as accounting standards and taxation requirements (including tax-rate changes, new tax laws, revised tax law interpretations, or other potential impacts outlined in proposals on TCJA).. We are subject to regulation of our technical data and goods under U.S. export control laws.. As a manufacturer and exporter of defense and dual-use technical data and commodities, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of State, and the Export Administration Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Collaborative agreements that we may have with foreign persons, including manufacturers and suppliers, are also subject to U.S. export control laws. In addition, we are subject to trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the U.S. Department of the Treasury.. A determination that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls or trade sanctions could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of fines upon us as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Additionally, restrictions may be placed on the export of technical data and goods in the future as a result of changing geopolitical conditions. Any one or more of such sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The U.S. Government is a significant customer of certain of our customers and we and they are subject to specific U.S. Government contracting rules and regulations.. We provide aerostructures to defense aircraft manufacturers (\"defense customers\"). Our defense customers' business, and by extension, our business, is affected by the U.S. Government's continued commitment to programs under contract with our customers. Contracts with the U.S. Government generally permit the government to terminate contracts partially or completely, with or without cause, at any time. An unexpected termination of a significant government contract, a reduction in expenditures by the U.S. Government for aircraft using our products, lower margins resulting from increasingly competitive procurement policies, a reduction in the volume of contracts awarded to us, or substantial cost overruns could materially reduce our cash flow and results of operations. We bear the potential risk that the U.S. Government may unilaterally suspend our defense customers or us from new contracts pending the resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations.. A decline in the U.S. defense budget or change of funding priorities may reduce demand for our defense customers' aircraft and reduce our sales of defense products.. The U.S. defense budget has fluctuated in recent years, at times resulting in reduced demand for new aircraft. Changes in military strategy and priorities, or reductions in defense spending, may affect current and future funding of these programs and could reduce the demand for our defense customers' products, and thereby reduce sales of our defense products, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to environmental, health, and safety regulations and our ongoing operations may expose us to related liabilities.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation under environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. We may be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties, including criminal sanctions, if we fail to comply with these requirements. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. We cannot predict with certainty what environmental legislation will be enacted in the future or how existing laws will be administered or interpreted. Our operations involve the use of large amounts of hazardous substances and regulated materials and generate many types of wastes, including emissions of hexavalent chromium and volatile organic compounds, and greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide. Spills and releases of these materials may subject us to clean-up liability for remediation and claims of alleged personal injury, property damage, and damage to natural resources, and we may become obligated to reduce our emissions of hexavalent chromium, volatile organic compounds and/or greenhouse gases. We cannot give any assurance that the aggregate amount of future remediation costs and other environmental liabilities will not be material.. 21. Table of Contents. Boeing, our predecessor at the Wichita facility, is under an administrative consent order issued by the Kansas Department of Health and Environment to contain and remediate contaminated groundwater, which underlies a majority of our Wichita facility. Pursuant to this order and its agreements with us, Boeing has a long-term remediation plan in place, and treatment, containment, and remediation efforts are underway. If Boeing does not comply with its obligations under the order and these agreements, we may be required to undertake such efforts and make material expenditures.. In connection with the ,BAE Acquisition, we became a supplier to Airbus and acquired a manufacturing facility in Prestwick, Scotland that is adjacent to contaminated property retained by BAE Systems. The contaminated property may be subject to a regulatory action requiring remediation of the land. It is also possible that the contamination may spread into the property we acquired. BAE Systems has agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain contractual limitations and conditions, for certain clean-up costs and other losses, liabilities, expenses, and claims related to existing pollution on the acquired property, existing pollution that migrates from the acquired property to a third party's property and any pollution that migrates to our property from property retained by BAE Systems. If BAE Systems does not comply with its obligations under the BAE Acquisition agreement, we may be required to undertake such efforts and make material expenditures.. In the future, contamination may be discovered at or emanating from our facilities or at off-site locations where we send waste. The remediation of such newly discovered contamination, related claims for personal injury or damages, or the enactment of new laws or a stricter interpretation of existing laws, may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. See \"Business - Regulatory Matters.\". We are required to comply with \"conflict minerals\" rules promulgated by the SEC, which impose costs on us, may make our supply chain more complex, and could adversely impact our business.. We are subject to annual due diligence, disclosure, and reporting requirements as a company that manufactures or contracts to manufacture products that contain certain minerals and metals known as \"conflict minerals.\" We have, and expect to continue to, incur additional costs and expenses, in order to comply with these rules, including for due diligence to determine whether conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of any of our products and, if so, to verify the sources of such conflict minerals; and to implement any changes we deem necessary to our products, processes, or sources of supply as a result of such diligence and verification activities. Compliance with these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in certain of our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering conflict minerals from sources outside of the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries, or that have been independently verified as not funding armed conflict in those countries, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain such verified minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not ultimately be able to sufficiently verify the origin of the conflict minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may adversely affect our reputation with our customers, stockholders, and other stakeholders. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components in our products be certified as \"conflict free.\" If we are not able to meet such requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier, which may require us to write off inventory that cannot be sold.  Any one or a combination of these factors could harm our business, reduce market demand for our products, and adversely affect our profit margins, net sales, and overall financial results. We may face similar risks in connection with any other regulations focusing on social responsibility or ethical sourcing that may be adopted in the future.. Significant consolidation in the aerospace industry could make it difficult for us to obtain new business.. Suppliers in the aerospace industry have consolidated and formed alliances to broaden their product and integrated system offerings and achieve critical mass. This supplier consolidation is in part attributable to aircraft manufacturers more frequently awarding long-term sole-source or preferred supplier contracts to the most capable suppliers, thus reducing the total number of suppliers. If this consolidation were to continue, it may become more difficult for us to be successful in obtaining new customers.. We may be materially adversely affected by high fuel prices.. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, airlines are often unable to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. Fluctuations in the global supply of crude oil and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation, and marketing make it difficult to predict the future availability of jet fuel. In the event there is an outbreak or escalation of hostilities or other conflicts, or significant disruptions in oil production or delivery in oil-producing areas or elsewhere, there could be reductions in the production or importation of crude oil and significant increases in the cost of fuel. If there were major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, the airline industry and, as a result, our business, could be materially adversely affected.. Interruptions in deliveries of components or raw materials, or increased prices for components or raw materials used in our products could delay production and/or materially adversely affect our financial performance, profitability, margins, and revenues.. 22. Table of Contents. We are highly dependent on the availability of essential materials and purchased components from our suppliers, some of which are available only from a sole source or limited sources. Our dependency upon regular deliveries from particular suppliers of components and raw materials means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could materially adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers, to the extent alternate suppliers exist, could be made. If any of our suppliers were unable or were to refuse to deliver materials to us for an extended period of time, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these or alternative suppliers, our business could suffer and be materially affected.. Moreover, we are dependent upon the ability of our suppliers to provide materials and components that meet specifications, quality standards, and delivery schedules. Our suppliers' failure to provide expected raw materials or component parts that meet our technical specifications could materially adversely affect production schedules and contract profitability. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs for us and possible forward losses on certain contracts. Even if acceptable alternatives are found, the process of locating and securing such alternatives might be disruptive to our business and might lead to termination of our supply agreements with our customers.. Our continued supply of materials is subject to a number of risks including:. • the destruction of or damage to our suppliers' facilities or their distribution infrastructure;. • embargoes, force majeure events, domestic or international acts of hostility, terrorism, or other events impacting our suppliers' ability to perform;. • a work stoppage or strike by our suppliers' employees;. • the failure of our suppliers to provide materials of the requisite quality or in compliance with specifications;. • the failure of essential equipment at our suppliers' plants;. • the failure of our suppliers to satisfy U.S. and international import and export control laws for goods that we purchase from such suppliers;. • the failure of our suppliers to meet regulatory standards;. • the failure, shortage or delay in the delivery of raw materials to our suppliers;. • contractual amendments and disputes with our suppliers; and. • inability of our suppliers to perform as a result of global economic conditions or otherwise.. In addition, our profitability is affected by the prices of the components and raw materials, such as titanium, aluminum, and carbon fiber, used in the manufacturing of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including world oil prices, changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and, in some cases, government regulation. Although our supply agreements with Boeing and Airbus allow us to pass on to our customers certain unusual increases in component and raw material costs in limited situations, we may not be fully compensated by the customers for the entirety of any such increased costs.. Our operations could be negatively impacted by service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches.. We rely on information technology networks and systems to manage and support a variety of business activities, including procurement and supply chain, engineering support, and manufacturing. These networks and systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, are susceptible to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers or insiders, telecommunication failures, user errors, or catastrophic events. If these networks and systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our manufacturing process could be disrupted, resulting in late deliveries or even no deliveries if there is a total shutdown. This could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and we could face financial losses.. Further, we routinely experience cyber security threats and attempts to gain access to sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, and other third parties with which we work. We have established threat detection, monitoring, and mitigation processes and procedures and are continually exploring ways to improve these processes and procedures. However, we cannot provide assurance that these processes and procedures will be sufficient to prevent cyber security threats from materializing. If threats do materialize, we could experience significant financial or information losses and/or reputational harm. If we are unable to protect sensitive or confidential information from these threats, our customers or governmental authorities could question the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures and, as a result, our present and future business could be negatively impacted.. Risk Factors Related to Our Capital Structure. 23. Table of Contents. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. The terms of the indentures governing our long-term bonds and our senior credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our company and our subsidiaries, which could also adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage by preventing us from capitalizing on business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total debt of $1,151.0 million, including $460.7 million of borrowings under our senior credit facility, $592.0 million of long-term bonds, and $98.3 million of capital lease and other obligations. In addition to our debt, as of December 31, 2017, we had $23.2 million of letters of guarantee outstanding.. The terms of the indentures governing our long-term bonds and our senior credit facility impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, which limit our ability to incur liens, sell assets, and enter into certain transactions, among other things. In addition, our debt instruments require us to maintain compliance with financial covenants.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness in the future or, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Failure to maintain compliance with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We may periodically need to obtain additional financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due, to support our operations and/or to make acquisitions. Our access to the debt capital markets and the cost of borrowings are affected by a number of factors including market conditions and the strength of our credit ratings. If we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Any reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business or financial condition.. As of December 31, 2017, our corporate credit ratings were BBB- by Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC (\"S&P\"), and Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (\"Moody's\").. The ratings reflect the agencies' assessment of our ability to pay interest and principal on our debt securities and credit agreements. A rating is not a recommendation to purchase, sell, or hold securities. Each rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. Each rating agency has its own methodology for assigning ratings and, accordingly, each rating should be considered independently of all other ratings. Lower ratings would typically result in higher interest costs of debt securities when they are sold, could make it more difficult to issue future debt securities, could require us to provide creditors with more restrictive covenants, which would limit our flexibility and ability to pay dividends, and would require us to pledge collateral under our senior credit facility including substantially all property, plant, and equipment. In addition, a downgrade in our fixed or revolving long-term debt rating could result in an increase in borrowing costs under our credit facility and could trigger a prepayment obligation based on the excess cash flow prepayment provision under our term loan depending on our total leverage ratio. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could thus have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition.. We may sell more equity and reduce your ownership in Spirit Holdings.. Our business plan may require the investment of new capital, which we may raise by issuing additional equity (including equity interests which may have a preference over shares of our class A common stock). However, this capital may not be available at all, or when needed, or upon terms and conditions favorable to us. The issuance of additional equity in Spirit Holdings may result in significant dilution of shares of our class A common stock. We may issue additional equity in connection with or to finance acquisitions. Further, our subsidiaries could issue securities in the future to persons or entities (including our affiliates) other than us or another subsidiary. This could materially adversely affect your investment in us because it would dilute your indirect ownership interest in our subsidiaries.. Spirit Holdings' certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our supply agreements with Boeing contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions of Spirit Holdings' certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors. These provisions include:. • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and. • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10 million shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine.. 24. Table of Contents. In addition, our supply agreements with Boeing include provisions giving Boeing the ability to terminate the agreements in the event any of certain disqualified persons acquire a majority of Spirit's direct or indirect voting power or all or substantially all of Spirit's assets. See \"Business - Our Relationship with Boeing.\""
