[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us. Our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.. Risks Relating to the Merger Transactions. The closing of the Merger Transactions is subject to many conditions, including the receipt of approvals from various governmental entities, which may not approve the Merger Transactions, may delay the approvals for, or may impose conditions or restrictions on, jeopardize or delay completion of, or reduce the anticipated benefits of, the Merger Transactions, and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Merger Transactions will not be completed.. The completion of the Merger Transactions is subject to a number of conditions, including, among others, obtaining certain governmental authorizations, consents, orders or other approvals and the absence of any injunction prohibiting the Merger Transactions or any legal requirements enacted by a court or other governmental entity preventing consummation of the Merger Transactions. There is no assurance that these required authorizations, consents, orders or other approvals will be obtained or that they will be obtained in a timely manner, or whether they will be subject to required actions, conditions, limitations or restrictions on our, T-Mobile's or the combined company's business, operations or assets. If any such required actions, conditions, limitations or restrictions are imposed, they may jeopardize or delay completion of the Merger Transactions, reduce or delay the anticipated benefits of the Merger Transactions or allow the parties to terminate the Merger Transactions, which could result in a material adverse effect on our, T-Mobile's or the combined company's business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, the completion of the Merger Transactions is also subject to T-Mobile USA having specified minimum credit ratings on the closing date of the Merger Transactions (after giving effect to the Merger Transactions) from at least two of the three credit rating agencies, subject to certain qualifications.. Failure to complete the Merger Transactions, or a delay in completing the Merger Transactions, could negatively impact our stock price and the future business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition and results of operations of us or the combined company.. If the Merger Transactions are not completed or delayed, our common stock price and future business and financial results could be negatively affected, or our employees, suppliers, vendors, distributors, retailers, dealers or customers could lose focus on our business, cease doing business with us, or curtail their activities with us. In addition, the Business Combination Agreement may be terminated if, among other things, required regulatory approvals or consents are not obtained or either party breaches certain of its obligations under the Business Combination Agreement. If this were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price.. We and T-Mobile are subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions and requirements while the Merger Transactions are pending that could disrupt our, T-Mobile's or the combined company's business and adversely affect our or T-Mobile's business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition and results of operations.. Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger Transactions on employees, customers, suppliers, vendors, distributors, dealers and retailers may have an adverse effect on us and T-Mobile. These uncertainties may impair our and T-Mobile's ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel during the pendency of the Merger Transactions and, if the Merger Transactions are completed, for a period of time thereafter, as existing and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If key employees depart because of issues related to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us or T-Mobile, our and T-Mobile's business following the Merger Transactions could be negatively impacted. Additionally, these uncertainties could cause customers, suppliers, distributors, dealers, retailers and others who deal with us or T-Mobile to seek to change or cancel existing business relationships with us or T-Mobile or fail to renew existing relationships with us or T-Mobile. Suppliers, distributors and content and application providers may also delay or cease developing for us or T-Mobile new products that are necessary for the operations of our or T-Mobile's business due to the uncertainty created by the Merger Transactions. Competitors may also target our or T-Mobile's existing customers by highlighting potential uncertainties and integration difficulties that may result from the Merger Transactions.. The Business Combination Agreement also restricts each of us and T-Mobile, without the other's consent, from taking certain actions outside of the ordinary course of business while the Merger Transactions are pending, including, among other things, certain acquisitions or dispositions of businesses and assets, entering into or amending certain contracts, repurchasing or issuing securities, making capital expenditures and incurring indebtedness, in each case subject to certain. 12. Table of Contents. exceptions. These restrictions may have a significant negative impact on our and T-Mobile's business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, management and financial resources have been diverted and will continue to be diverted toward the completion of the Merger Transactions. We and T-Mobile have incurred, and expect to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Merger Transactions. These costs could adversely affect our and T-Mobile's financial condition and results of operations prior to the consummation of the Merger Transactions.. The Business Combination Agreement contains provisions that restrict the ability of our board of directors to pursue alternatives to the Merger Transactions.. The Business Combination Agreement contains non-solicitation provisions that restrict our ability to solicit, initiate, knowingly encourage or knowingly take any other action designed to facilitate, any inquiries regarding, or the making of, any proposal the consummation of which would constitute an alternative transaction for purposes of the Business Combination Agreement.. Our directors and executive officers may have interests in the Merger Transactions that may be different from, or in addition to, those of other of our stockholders.. Our directors and executive officers may have interests in the Merger Transactions that may differ from, or that are in addition to, the interests of our other stockholders. These interests with respect to our directors and executive officers may include, among others, continued service as a director or an executive officer of the combined company, employment or consulting arrangements, arrangements that provide for severance benefits if certain executive officers' employment is terminated under certain circumstances following the completion of the Merger Transactions and rights to indemnification and directors' and officers' liability insurance following the completion of the Merger Transactions. Our board of directors was aware of these interests during the time that the Business Combination Agreement was being negotiated and at the time they approved the Merger Transactions. These interests may cause our directors and executive officers to view the Merger Transactions differently than another stockholder may view.. Although we expect that the Merger Transactions will result in synergies and other benefits to us and T-Mobile, those benefits may not be realized fully or at all or may not be realized within the expected time frame.. Our and T-Mobile's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger Transactions will depend, to a large extent, on the combined company's ability to integrate our and T-Mobile's businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and achieves the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends identified by each company without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. In addition, some of the anticipated synergies are not expected to occur for a significant time period following the completion of the Merger Transactions and will require substantial capital expenditures in the near term to be fully realized. Even if the combined company is able to integrate the two companies successfully, the anticipated benefits of the Merger Transactions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. Our business and T-Mobile's business may not be integrated successfully or such integration may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected. Operating costs, customer loss and business disruption, including difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, suppliers or vendors, may be greater than expected following the Merger Transactions. Revenues following the Merger Transactions may be lower than expected.. The combination of two independent businesses is complex, costly and time-consuming and may divert significant management attention and resources to combining our and T-Mobile's business practices and operations. This process may disrupt our and T-Mobile's businesses. The failure to meet the challenges involved in combining the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger Transactions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely affect the results of operations of the combined company. The overall combination of our and T-Mobile's businesses may also result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses and loss of customer and other business relationships. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:. • difficulties in integrating the companies' operations and systems, including intellectual property and communications systems, administrative and information technology infrastructure and financial reporting and internal control systems, including compliance by the combined company with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated by the SEC;. 13. Table of Contents. • challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures, accounting and other policies, business cultures, and compensation structures between the two companies;. • difficulties in assimilating employees and in attracting and retaining key personnel;. • challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers;. • difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from the combination;. • difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company;. • the transition of management to the combined company executive management team;. • determining whether and how to address possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies;. • the impact of the additional debt financing expected to be incurred in connection with the Merger Transactions;. • contingent liabilities that are larger than expected; and. • potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences, and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Merger Transactions.. Many of these factors are outside of our and T-Mobile's control and/or will be outside the control of the combined company, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company. In addition, even if the operations of our business and T-Mobile's business are combined successfully, the full benefits of the Merger Transactions may not be realized, including the synergies or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in combining our business and T-Mobile's business. All of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of the combined company, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger Transactions and negatively impact the price of our and T-Mobile's common stock. As a result, it cannot be assured that the combination of our business and T-Mobile's business will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the Merger Transactions within the anticipated time frames or at all.. Failure to consummate the Merger Transactions could materially and adversely affect our future business and financial results.. If the Merger Transactions are not completed for any reason, our ongoing businesses may be materially and adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Merger Transactions, we will be subject to numerous risks, including the following:. • having to pay substantial costs relating to the Merger Transactions, such as financing fees and costs and advisor, filing and other fees that will have already been incurred;. • experiencing negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on our stock price or the trading price of our notes, on our ability to access the capital markets to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all or from our customers, regulators and employees;. • focusing on the Merger Transactions instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial, without realizing any of the benefits of having the Merger Transactions consummated; and. • reputational harm due to the adverse perception of any failure to successfully consummate the Merger Transactions.. There can be no assurance that these risks will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, results of operation and financial condition if the Merger Transactions are not consummated.. Litigation relating to the Merger Transactions may be filed against our board of directors and/or the board of directors of T - Mobile that could prevent or delay the consummation of the Merger Transactions, result in the payment of damages following consummation of the Merger Transactions and/or have an adverse effect on the trading prices of our securities.. In connection with the Merger Transactions, it is possible that stockholders of Sprint and/or T-Mobile may file putative class action lawsuits against the boards of directors of Sprint and/or T-Mobile. Among other remedies, these stockholders could seek damages and/or to enjoin the Merger Transactions. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and any such potential lawsuits could prevent or delay consummation of the Merger Transactions and/or result in substantial costs. 14. Table of Contents. to us and/or T-Mobile. Any such actions may create uncertainty relating to the Merger Transactions and may be costly and distracting to management. Further, the defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the Merger Transactions are consummated may adversely affect the combined company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Potential litigation relating to the Merger Transactions or the threat thereof may have an adverse effect on the trading prices of our securities.. The agreements governing the combined company's indebtedness will include restrictive covenants that limit the combined company's operating flexibility.. The agreements governing the combined company's indebtedness will impose material operating and financial restrictions on the combined company. These restrictions, subject in certain cases to customary baskets, exceptions and incurrence-based ratio tests, may limit the combined company's ability to engage in some transactions, including the following:. • incurring additional indebtedness and issuing preferred stock;. • paying dividends, redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments or investments;. • selling or buying assets, properties or licenses;. • developing assets, properties or licenses which the combined company has or in the future may procure;. • creating liens on assets;. • participating in future FCC auctions of spectrum or private sales of spectrum;. • engaging in mergers, acquisitions, business combinations, or other transactions;. • entering into transactions with affiliates; and. • placing restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments.. These restrictions could limit the combined company's ability to obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal on its outstanding indebtedness, complete acquisitions for cash or indebtedness or react to changes in its operating environment or the economy. Any future indebtedness that the combined company incurs may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the combined company's debt agreements may result in an event of default under these agreements, which in turn may result in defaults or acceleration of obligations under these agreements and other agreements, giving the combined company's lenders the right to terminate any commitments they had made to provide it with further funds and to require the combined company to repay all amounts then outstanding.. Financing of the Merger Transactions is not assured.. Although T-Mobile USA has received debt financing commitments from lenders to provide various bridge and other credit facilities to finance the Merger Transactions, the obligation of the lenders to provide these facilities is subject to a number of conditions. It is also expected that T-Mobile will enter into other financing arrangements in connection with the Merger Transactions for which it does not presently have commitments. Furthermore, T-Mobile USA may seek to modify its existing financing arrangements in connection with the Merger Transactions, and we understand that it does not have commitments from the lenders providing its existing financing arrangements for these modifications. Accordingly, financing of the Merger Transactions is not assured. Even if T-Mobile USA is able to obtain financing or modify its existing financing arrangements, the terms of such new or modified financing arrangements may not be available to T-Mobile USA on favorable terms, and T-Mobile USA may incur significant costs in connection with entering into such financing.. Downgrades of our and/or T-Mobile's ratings could adversely affect our, T-Mobile's and/or the combined company's respective businesses, cash flows, financial condition and operating results.. Our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings, and, as a result, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or, following completion of the Merger Transactions, obligations to the combined company's creditors. Each of the rating organizations reviews our ratings and T-Mobile's ratings periodically, and there can be no assurance that our or T-Mobile's current ratings will be maintained in the future. Downgrades in our financial health and/or T-Mobile's ratings could adversely affect our, T-Mobile's and/or the combined company's businesses, cash flows, financial condition and operating results. The Business Combination Agreement also contains certain conditions relating to a minimum credit rating of T-Mobile USA on the closing date of the Merger Transactions.. 15. Table of Contents. The Combined Company's indebtedness following the completion of the Merger Transactions will be substantially greater than our indebtedness on a stand-alone basis and greater than the combined indebtedness of us and T-Mobile prior to the announcement of the Merger Transactions. This increased level of indebtedness could adversely affect the combined company's business flexibility, and increase its borrowing costs.. In connection with the Merger Transactions, we expect T-Mobile to incur merger-related debt financing, which we expect will be used in part to prepay a portion of our existing indebtedness and a portion of T-Mobile's existing indebtedness and to fund liquidity needs. As a result, after giving effect to the Merger Transactions and the related transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement, including the incurrence of the merger-related debt financing, we anticipate that the combined company will have substantially higher consolidated indebtedness.. The combined company's substantially increased indebtedness following completion of the Merger Transactions in comparison to our indebtedness prior to the Merger Transactions will have the effect, among other things, of reducing its flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. In addition, the amount of cash required to pay interest on the combined company's increased indebtedness levels will increase following the completion of the Merger Transactions, and thus the demands on cash resources will be greater than prior to the Merger Transactions. The increased levels of indebtedness following completion of the Merger Transactions may reduce funds available to fund the combined company's efforts to combine our business with T-Mobile's business and realize the expected benefits of the Merger Transactions and/or may also reduce funds available for capital expenditures, share repurchases, and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for the combined company relative to other companies with lower debt levels.. Further, it may be necessary to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future after the Merger Transactions subject to the restrictions contained in the combined company's debt instruments. If new indebtedness is added after the closing of the Merger Transactions, the related risks could intensify.. Because of the combined company's substantial indebtedness following the completion of the Merger Transactions, it may not be able to service its debt obligations in accordance with their terms after the Merger Transactions.. The combined company's ability to service its substantial debt obligations following the completion of the Merger Transactions will depend on its future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including its ability to achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the Merger Transactions. There is no guarantee that the combined company will be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due. If the combined company is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger Transactions or it fails to comply with its financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, the combined company may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices or borrow more money. The combined company may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets or borrow more money on acceptable terms or at all. The combined company's inability to refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our stockholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in the combined company after the Merger Transactions and will exercise less influence over management.. Upon completion of the Merger Transactions, each of our stockholders who receives shares of T-Mobile common stock will become a stockholder of T-Mobile with a percentage ownership of T-Mobile that is smaller than their current percentage ownership of us. As a result, even if all of our former stockholders voted together on all matters presented to T-Mobile stockholders from time to time, our former stockholders would exercise significantly less influence over the combined company after the completion of the Merger Transactions relative to their influence over us now, and thus would have a less significant impact on the election of the combined company's board and on the approval or rejection of future proposals submitted to a stockholder vote of the combined company's stockholders.. Business Risks. If we are not able to retain and attract profitable wireless subscribers, our financial performance will be impaired.. Our success is based on our ability to retain current subscribers and attract new subscribers. If we are unable to attract and retain profitable wireless subscribers, our financial performance will be impaired, and we could fail to meet our financial obligations. From January 1, 2008 through March 31, 2018, we have experienced an aggregate net decrease of approximately 10.6 million subscribers in our total retail postpaid subscriber base (excluding the impact of our acquisitions).. 16. Table of Contents. Our ability to retain our existing subscribers, to compete successfully for new subscribers, and reduce our churn rate depends on, among other things:. • our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, including our successful execution of marketing and sales strategies; the acceptance of our value proposition; service delivery and customer care activities, including new account set up and billing; and execution under credit and collection policies;. • actual or perceived quality and coverage of our network;. • public perception about our brands and the Merger Transactions;. • our ability to anticipate, develop, and deploy new or enhanced technologies, products, and services that are attractive to existing or potential subscribers;. • our ability to continue to access spectrum and acquire additional spectrum capacity; and. • our ability to maintain our current MVNO relationships and to enter into new MVNO arrangements.. Our ability to retain subscribers may be negatively affected by industry trends related to subscriber contracts. We continue to see aggressive customer acquisition efforts by our competitors. For example, most service providers, including us, are offering wireless service plans without any long-term commitment. Furthermore, some service providers are reimbursing contract termination fees, including paying off the outstanding balance on devices, incurred by new customers in connection with such customers terminating service with their current wireless service providers. Our competitors' aggressive customer contract terms, such as those described above, could negatively affect our ability to retain subscribers and could lead to an increase in our churn rates if we are not successful in providing an attractive product, price, and service mix, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We expect to continue to incur expenses such as the reimbursement of subscriber termination fees, and other subscriber acquisition and retention expenses, to attract and retain subscribers, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will generate new subscribers or result in a lower churn rate. Subscriber losses and a high churn rate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations because they result in lost revenues and cash flow.. Moreover, we and our competitors continue to gain a greater proportion of new subscribers from each other's existing subscriber bases rather than from first-time purchasers. To the extent we cannot compete effectively for new subscribers or if we attract more subscribers that are not creditworthy, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The success of our network improvements and 5G deployment will depend on the timing, extent, and cost of implementation; access to spectrum; the performance of third-parties and related parties; upgrade requirements; and the availability and reliability of the various technologies required to provide such modernization.. We must continually invest in our wireless network, including expanding our network capacity and coverage through macro sites and small cells, in order to improve our wireless services and remain competitive by providing 5G capabilities. The development and deployment of new technologies and services requires us to anticipate the changing demands of our customers and to respond accordingly, which we may not be able to do in a timely or efficient manner.. Improvements in our service depend on many factors, including our ability to predict and adapt to future changes in technologies, changes in consumer demands, changes in pricing and service offerings by our competitors, and continued access to and deployment of adequate spectrum, including any leased spectrum. If we are unable to access spectrum to increase capacity or to deploy the services subscribers desire on a timely basis or at acceptable costs while maintaining network quality levels, our ability to attract and retain subscribers could be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our operating results.. If we fail to provide a competitive network, our ability to provide wireless services to our subscribers, to attract and retain subscribers, and to maintain and grow our subscriber revenues could be adversely affected. For example, achieving optimal broadband network speeds, capacity, and coverage using 2.5 GHz spectrum relies in significant part on operationalizing a complex mixture of BRS and EBS spectrum licenses and leases in the desired service areas. We primarily access EBS spectrum through long-term leasing arrangements with EBS license holders. The EBS is subject to licensing limitations and the technical limitations of the frequencies in the 2.5 GHz range. See \"Item 1. Business-Legislative and Regulatory Developments-Regulation and Wireless Operations-2.5 GHz License Conditions.\" If we are unable to operationalize this mixture of licenses and leases, our targeted network modernization goals could be adversely affected.. Using new and sophisticated technologies on a very large scale entails risks. For example, deployment of new technologies from time to time has adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, the performance of existing. 17. Table of Contents. services on our network and result in increased churn or failure to attract wireless subscribers. Should implementation of our network upgrades, which also includes expanding our network through densification using both macro sites and small cells, fail, be delayed or result in incurring costs in excess of expected amounts, our margins could be adversely affected and such effects could be material. Should the delivery of services expected to be deployed on our network be delayed due to technological constraints or changes, performance of third-party suppliers, regulatory restrictions, including zoning and leasing restrictions, or permit issues, subscriber dissatisfaction, or other reasons, the cost of providing such services could become higher than expected, ultimately increasing our cost to subscribers and resulting in decreases in net subscribers or our margins, or both, which would adversely affect our revenues, profitability, and cash flow from operations.. Our high debt levels and restrictive debt covenants could negatively impact our ability to access future financing at attractive rates or at all, which could limit our operating flexibility and ability to repay our outstanding debt as it matures.. As of March 31, 2018, our consolidated principal amount of indebtedness was $41.0 billion, and we had $1.8 billion of undrawn borrowing capacity under the secured revolving bank credit facility. Our high debt levels and debt service requirements are significant in relation to our revenues and cash flow, which may reduce our ability to respond to competition and economic trends in our industry or in the economy generally. Our high debt levels and debt service requirements may also limit our financing options as a result of the restrictions placed on certain of our assets in our recent financing transactions. In addition, certain agreements governing our indebtedness impose operating restrictions on us, subject to exceptions, including our ability to:. • pay dividends;. • create liens on our assets;. • receive dividend or other payments from certain of our subsidiaries;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • engage in certain asset sale or business combination transactions.. Our secured revolving bank credit facility and other financing facilities also require that we maintain certain financial ratios, including a leverage ratio, which could limit our ability to incur additional debt. Our failure to comply with our debt covenants would trigger defaults under those obligations, which could result in the maturities of those debt obligations being accelerated and could in turn result in cross defaults with other debt obligations. If we are forced to refinance our debt obligations prior to maturity on terms that are less favorable or if we were to experience difficulty in refinancing the debt prior to maturity, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, our recent asset-backed financings could subject us to an increased risk of loss of assets secured under those facilities. We continue to expect to rely on asset-backed financings as a source of funds, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so. For instance, although we have leveraged certain of our spectrum assets as collateral in asset-backed financing transactions, certain limitations such as our leasing arrangements on 2.5 GHz spectrum may significantly reduce our ability to further leverage our spectrum. In addition, the Business Combination Agreement restricts us, without T-Mobile's consent, from taking certain actions outside the ordinary course of business while the Merger Transactions are pending, including incurring certain indebtedness. Limitations on our ability to obtain suitable financing when needed, or at all, or a failure to execute on our cost-reduction initiatives, could result in an inability to continue to expand our business, timely execute network plans, and meet competitive challenges.. Subscribers who purchase a device on a financing basis are not required to sign a fixed-term service contract, which could result in higher churn and higher bad debt expense.. Our service plans allow certain subscribers to purchase or finance the use of an eligible device under an installment or lease contract payable generally over a period of up to 24 months. Subscribers who take advantage of these plans are not required to sign a fixed-term service contract to obtain postpaid service; rather, their service is provided on a month-to-month basis with no early termination fee. These service plans may not meet our subscribers' or potential subscribers' needs, expectations, or demands. In addition, subscribers on these plans can discontinue their service at any time without penalty, other than the obligation of any residual commitment they may have for unpaid service or for amounts due under the installment contract for the device. We could experience a higher churn rate than we expect due to the ability of subscribers to more easily change service providers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operational and financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our customer base and achieve the customer penetration levels that we anticipate with this business model.. 18. Table of Contents. Because our lease and installment billing contracts permit customers to use or pay for devices over time, we maintain a certain level of debt to support our investment in these contracts. We fund our customer device financing activities through a combination of cash on hand and proceeds from monetizing customer receivables.. In addition, subscribers who have financed their devices through installment billing plans have the option to pay for their devices in installments generally over a period of up to 24 months. This program subjects us to increased risks relating to consumer credit issues, which could result in increased costs, including increases to our bad debt expense and write-offs of installment billing receivables. These arrangements may be particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, and any declines in the credit quality of our subscriber base could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Because we lease devices to subscribers, our device leasing program exposes us to risks, including those related to the actual residual value realized on returned devices, higher churn and increased losses on devices.. We lease devices to certain of our subscribers. Our financial condition and results of operations depend, in part, on our ability to appropriately assess the credit risk of our lease subscribers and the ability of our lease subscribers to perform under our device leases. In addition to monthly lease payments, we expect to realize economic benefit from the estimated residual value of a leased device, which is the estimated value of a leased device at the time of the expiration of the lease term. Changes in residual value assumptions made at lease inception would affect the amount of depreciation expense and the net amount of equipment under operating leases. If estimated residual values, in the aggregate, significantly decline due to economic factors, obsolescence, or other circumstances, we may not realize such residual value, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We may also suffer negative consequences including increased costs and increased losses on devices as a result of a lease subscriber default, the related termination of a lease, and the attempted repossession of the device, including failure of a lease subscriber to return a leased device at the end of the lease. Sustained failure of subscribers to return leased devices could also negatively impact our ability to obtain financing based on leased devices in the future. In addition, subscribers who lease a device are not required to sign a fixed-term service contract, which could result in higher churn, and increased losses on devices.. Adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our business and financial performance, as well as our access to financing on acceptable terms or at all.. Our business and financial performance are sensitive to changes in macro-economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, consumer credit conditions, consumer debt levels, consumer confidence, inflation rates (or concerns about deflation), unemployment rates, energy costs, and other factors. Concerns about these and other factors, including the impact of the Merger Transactions on our business, may contribute to market volatility and economic uncertainty.. Market turbulence and weak economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business and financial performance in a number of ways. Our services are available to a broad customer base, a significant portion of which may be more vulnerable to weak economic conditions. We may have greater difficulty in gaining new subscribers within this segment and existing subscribers may be more likely to terminate service due to an inability to pay.. We will need to reduce costs and raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and execute our business strategy. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. Instability in the global financial markets has resulted in periodic volatility in the credit, equity, and fixed income markets. This volatility could limit our access to the credit markets, leading to higher borrowing costs or, in some cases, the inability to obtain financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all.. Weak economic conditions and credit conditions may also adversely impact various third parties on which we rely, some of which have filed for or may be considering bankruptcy, experiencing cash flow or liquidity problems, or are unable to obtain credit such that they may no longer be able to operate. Any of these could adversely impact our ability to distribute, market, or sell our products and services.. Government regulation could adversely affect our prospects and results of operations; federal and state regulatory commissions may adopt new regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect our business prospects, future growth, or results of operations.. The FCC, FTC, CFPB, and other federal, state and local, as well as international, governmental authorities assert jurisdiction over our business and could adopt regulations or take other actions that would adversely affect our business prospects or results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. The licensing, construction, operation, sale and interconnection arrangements of wireless telecommunications systems are regulated by the FCC and, depending on the jurisdiction, international, state and local regulatory agencies. In particular, the FCC imposes significant regulation on licensees of wireless spectrum with respect to how radio spectrum is used by licensees, the nature of the services that licensees may offer and how the services may be offered, and resolution of issues of interference between spectrum bands. The FCC grants wireless licenses for terms of generally ten years that are subject to renewal and revocation. There is no guarantee that our licenses will be renewed. Failure to comply with the FCC requirements applicable to a given license could result in revocation of that license and, depending on the nature of the non-compliance, other Sprint licenses.. The FCC uses its transactional \"spectrum screen\" to identify prospective wireless transactions that may require additional competitive scrutiny. If a proposed transaction would exceed the spectrum screen threshold, the FCC undertakes a more detailed analysis of relevant market conditions in the impacted geographic areas to determine whether the transaction would reduce competition without offsetting public benefits. The screen includes substantial portions of the 2.5 GHz band previously excluded from the screen and that are licensed or leased to Sprint in numerous markets. As a result, future Sprint spectrum acquisitions may exceed the spectrum screen trigger for additional FCC review. Such additional review could extend the duration of the regulatory review process and there can be no assurance that such transactions will ultimately be completed in whole or in part.. Over the past few years, the FCC and other federal and state agencies have engaged in increased regulatory and enforcement activity as well as investigations of the industry generally. Enforcement activities or investigations could make it more difficult and expensive to operate our business, and could increase the costs of our wireless operations. In addition, we may offer products that include highly regulated financial services, which subject us to additional state and federal regulations. The costs to comply with such regulations and failure to remain compliant with such regulations could adversely affect our results of operations.. Degradation in network performance caused by compliance with government regulation, loss of spectrum, or additional rules associated with the use of spectrum in any market could result in an inability to attract new subscribers or higher subscriber churn in that market, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Furthermore, additional costs or fees imposed by governmental regulation could adversely affect our revenues, future growth, and results of operations.. On December 14, 2017, the FCC voted to return broadband Internet access service to its prior classification as an information service, and reinstate the private mobile service classification of mobile broadband Internet access service. The order also eliminated the FCC's Internet Conduct Standard, along with the bright-line rules and included expanded transparency requirements. The new rules were published in the federal register on February 22, 2018. As a result, of the FCC order, state legislators and governors have introduced, and in some cases passed, state laws and executive order requiring different levels of adherence to net neutrality principles for broadband Internet access service providers active in the applicable states. Depending on the interpretation and application of these rules, including conflicts between federal and state laws, we may incur additional costs or be limited in the services we can provide which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We recruit professionals, including senior management, on a global basis to work in the U.S. and, therefore, must comply with the U.S. immigration and work permit/visa laws and regulations. An inability to obtain sufficient work permits/visas due to the impact of these regulations, including any changes to immigration and work permit/visa regulations in the U.S., could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. For risks related to governmental regulation in connection with the Merger Transactions, see \" -  Risks Relating to the Merger Transactions.\". Competition, industry consolidation, effectiveness of our cost optimization efforts, and technological changes in the market for wireless services could negatively affect our operations, resulting in adverse effects on our revenues, cash flows, growth, and profitability.. We compete with a number of other wireless service providers in each of the markets in which we provide wireless services. Competition is expected to continue to increase as additional spectrum is made available for commercial wireless services, and we have experienced and expect to continue to experience an increased customer demand for data usage on our network. Competition in pricing, service, and product offerings may adversely impact subscriber retention and our ability to attract new subscribers. A decline in the average revenue per subscriber coupled with a decline in the number of subscribers would negatively impact our revenues, cash flows, and profitability. In addition, consolidation by our competitors. 20. Table of Contents. and roaming partners could lead to fewer companies controlling access to network infrastructure, enabling our competitors to control usage and rates, which could negatively affect our revenues and profitability.. We are executing on a multi-year plan to transform the way we do business and to lower our cost structure. If we are unable to achieve our cost optimization goals and to maintain process and system changes resulting from cost optimization objectives already established, our profitability could be negatively affected.. The wireless industry also faces competition from other communications, cable, and technology companies seeking to increase their brand recognition and capture customer revenue with respect to the provision of wireless products and services, in addition to non-traditional offerings in mobile data. Further, some of our current competitors now provide content services in addition to voice and broadband services, and consumers are increasingly accessing video content from alternative sources via Internet-based providers and applications, all of which create increased competition in this area.. The wireless communications industry continues to experience significant technological change, including improvements in the capacity, quality, and types of technology. These developments cause uncertainty about future subscriber demand for our wireless services and the prices that we will be able to charge for these services. As services, technology, and devices evolve, we also expect continued pressure on voice, text, and other service revenues. Rapid changes in technology may lead to the development of wireless communications technologies, products, or alternative services that are superior to our technologies, products, or services, or that consumers prefer over ours. In addition, technological advances have caused long distance, local, wireless, video, and Internet services to become more integrated, which has contributed to increased competition, new competitors, new products, and the expansion of services offered by our competitors in each of these markets. If we are unable to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost, we may not be able to compete effectively and could lose subscribers to our competitors.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and may not reflect our actual operations and performance.. Market and industry factors may adversely impact the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operations and performance. Stock price volatility and sustained decreases in our share price could subject our stockholders to losses and may adversely impact our ability to issue equity. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, subject to fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to:. • uncertainties related to our proposed merger with T-Mobile;. • market and pricing risks due to concentrated ownership of our stock;. • the ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional debt or equity or otherwise, including the cost and availability or perceived availability of additional capital;. • information about the Merger Transactions;. • announcements by us or our competitors or market speculation of acquisitions, spectrum acquisitions, new products, technologies, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments;. • the performance of SoftBank and SoftBank's ordinary shares or speculation about the possibility of future actions SoftBank may take in connection with us;. • disruption to our operations or those of other companies critical to our network operations;. • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced technologies, products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, including any network improvement efforts;. • recommendations by securities analysts or changes in their estimates concerning us;. • changes in the ratings of our debt by rating agencies;. • litigation;. • changes in governmental actions, regulations, or approvals; and. • perceptions of general market conditions in the technology and communications industries, the U.S. economy, and global market conditions.. 21. Table of Contents. We have entered into, or may enter into, agreements with various parties for certain business operations. Any difficulties experienced by us in these arrangements could result in additional expense, loss of subscribers and revenue, interruption of our services, or a failure or delay in the roll-out of new technology.. We have entered into, and may in the future enter into, agreements with various third parties for the day-to-day execution of services, provisioning, maintenance, and upgrading of our wireless and wireline networks, including the permitting, building, and installation of our network upgrade; leases and subleases for space on communications towers; the development and maintenance of certain systems necessary for the operation of our business; customer service, related support to our wireless subscribers, outsourcing aspects of our wireline network and back office functions; and to provide network equipment, handsets, devices, and other equipment. For example, we depend heavily on local access facilities obtained from ILECs to serve our data and voice subscribers, and payments to ILECs for these facilities are a significant cost of service for both our Wireless and Wireline segments. We also expect our dependence on key suppliers to continue as more advanced technologies are developed, which may lead to additional significant costs. If our key vendors fail to meet their contractual obligations or experience financial difficulty, or if we fail to adequately diversify our reliance among vendors, we may experience disruptions to our business operations or incur significant costs implementing alternative arrangements.. The products and services utilized by us and our suppliers and service providers may infringe on intellectual property rights owned by others.. Some of our products and services use intellectual property that we own. We also purchase products from suppliers, including device suppliers, and outsource services to service providers, including billing and customer care functions, that incorporate or utilize intellectual property. We and some of our suppliers and service providers have received, and may receive in the future, assertions and claims from third parties that the products or software utilized by us or our suppliers and service providers infringe on the patents or other intellectual property rights of these third parties. These claims could require us or an infringing supplier or service provider to cease certain activities or to cease selling the relevant products and services. These claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management resources. If these claims are successful, we could be forced to pay significant damages or stop selling certain products or services or stop using certain trademarks, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Negative outcomes of legal proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We are regularly involved in a number of legal proceedings before various state and federal courts, the FCC, the FTC, the CFPB, and other federal, state, and local regulatory agencies. These proceedings may be complicated, costly, and disruptive to our business operations. We may incur significant expenses in defending these matters and may be required to pay significant fines, awards, or settlements. In addition, litigation or other proceedings could result in restrictions on our current or future manner of doing business. Any of these potential outcomes, such as judgments, awards, settlements, or orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or ability to do business.. For a discussion of litigation risks related to the Merger Transactions, see \" -  Risks Relating to the Merger Transactions.\". Our reputation and business may be harmed and we may be subject to legal claims if there is a loss, disclosure, misappropriation of, unauthorized access to, or other security breach of our proprietary or sensitive information.. Our information technology and other systems - including those of our third-party service providers - that maintain and transmit our proprietary information and our subscribers' information, including credit card information, location data, or other personal information may be compromised by a malicious third-party penetration of our network security or impacted by advertent or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees and agents. As a result, our subscribers' information may be lost, disclosed, accessed, used, corrupted, destroyed, or taken without the subscribers' consent. Cyber attacks, such as the use of malware, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, or other means for disruption or unauthorized access, have increased in frequency, scope, and potential harm in recent years. We also purchase equipment and software from third parties that could contain software defects, Trojan horses, malware, or other means by which third parties could access our network or the information stored or transmitted on such network or equipment.. While to date we are not aware of any cyber attacks or other cyber incidents that, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or financial condition, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be insufficient to repel a cyber attack in the future. In addition, the costs of such preventative actions may be significant, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Any major compromise of our data or network security, failure to prevent or mitigate a loss of our services or network, our proprietary information, or our subscribers' information, and delays in detecting any such compromise or loss, could disrupt. 22. Table of Contents. our operations, impact our reputation and subscribers' willingness to purchase our service, and subject us to significant additional expenses. Such expenses could include incentives offered to existing subscribers and other business relationships in order to retain their business, increased expenditures on cyber security measures and the use of alternate resources, lost revenues from business interruption, and litigation, which could be material. Furthermore, the potential costs associated with any such cyber attacks could be greater than the insurance coverage we maintain.. In addition to cyber attacks, major equipment failures, natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts or other disruptions that affect our wireline and wireless networks, including transport facilities, communications switches, routers, microwave links, cell sites, or other equipment or third-party owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, could disrupt our operations, require significant resources to remedy, result in a loss of subscribers or impair our ability to attract new subscribers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to improve our results of operations and as we continue to upgrade our networks, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our long-lived assets, goodwill, or other indefinite-lived intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. As a result of the SoftBank Merger, Sprint recognized goodwill at its acquisition-date estimate of fair value of approximately $6.6 billion, which has been entirely allocated to the wireless segment. Since goodwill was reflected at its estimate of fair value, there was no excess fair value over book value as of the date of the close of the SoftBank Merger. Additionally, we recorded $14.6 billion and $41.7 billion of long-lived assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, respectively, as of the close of the SoftBank Merger. We evaluate the carrying value of our indefinite-lived assets, including goodwill, at least annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired, or in the case of goodwill, that the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Continued, sustained declines in the Company's operating results, number of wireless subscribers, future forecasted cash flows, growth rates and other assumptions, as well as significant, sustained declines in the Company's stock price and related market capitalization could impact the underlying key assumptions and our estimated fair values, potentially leading to a future material impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill, or other indefinite-lived assets, which could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, as we continue to refine our network strategy, management may conclude, in future periods, that certain equipment assets in use will not be utilized as long as originally intended, which could result in an acceleration of depreciation expense. Moreover, certain equipment assets may never be deployed or redeployed, in which case cash and/or non-cash charges that could be material to our consolidated financial statements would be recognized.. Any acquisitions, strategic investments, or mergers may subject us to significant risks, any of which may harm our business.. Although we are focused on taking the steps necessary to close the Merger Transactions, we may still, from time to time, evaluate potential acquisitions, strategic investments, and mergers, and we may engage in discussions with potential counterparties. Some of these potential transactions could be significant relative to the size of our business and operations. Any such acquisitions would involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges.. As a result, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, or merger may cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. For more information on the Merger Transactions, see \" -  Risks Relating to the Merger Transactions.\". Controlled Company Risks. As long as SoftBank controls us, other holders of our common stock will have limited ability to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and SoftBank's interest may conflict with ours and our other stockholders.. As of March 31, 2018, SoftBank beneficially owned nearly 85% of the outstanding common stock of Sprint. As a result, until such time as SoftBank and its controlled affiliates hold shares representing less than a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our outstanding common stock at a stockholder meeting, SoftBank generally will have the ability to control the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders, except in certain circumstances set forth in our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. For example, SoftBank is able to approve the Merger Transactions.. So long as SoftBank and its controlled affiliates hold shares of our common stock representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our common stock at a stockholder meeting, SoftBank will be able to freely nominate and elect all the members of our board of directors, subject only to a requirement that a certain number of directors qualify as \"Independent Directors,\" as such term is defined in the NYSE listing rules and applicable laws. The directors. 23. Table of Contents. elected by SoftBank will have the authority to make decisions affecting the capital structure of the Company, including the issuance of additional equity, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs, and the declaration of dividends.. The interests of SoftBank may not coincide with the interests of our other stockholders or with holders of our indebtedness. SoftBank's ability, subject to the limitations in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval limits the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders or holders of our indebtedness do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock or terms upon which we issue indebtedness could be adversely affected. In addition, the existence of a controlling stockholder may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discouraging a third-party from seeking to acquire, the Company. For example, T-Mobile was required to negotiate the Merger Transactions with SoftBank. The interests of SoftBank with respect to such transaction may be different from the interests of our other stockholders or with holders of our indebtedness. See \" -  Risks Relating to the Merger Transactions\" for more information. In addition, the performance of SoftBank and SoftBank's ordinary shares or speculation about the possibility of future actions SoftBank may take in connection with us may adversely affect our share price or the trading price of our debt securities.. Subject to limitations in our certificate of incorporation that limit SoftBank's ability to engage in certain competing businesses in the U.S. or take advantage of certain corporate opportunities, SoftBank is not restricted from competing with us or otherwise taking for itself or its other affiliates certain corporate opportunities that may be attractive to the Company.. SoftBank's ability to control our board of directors may make it difficult for us to recruit independent directors.. For so long as SoftBank and its controlled affiliates hold shares of our common stock representing at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of our common stock at a stockholders' meeting, SoftBank will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors. Under these circumstances, persons who might otherwise accept an invitation to join our board of directors may decline.. Any inability to resolve favorably any disputes that may arise between the Company and SoftBank or its affiliates may adversely affect our business.. Disputes may arise between SoftBank or its affiliates and the Company in a number of areas, including:. • business combinations involving the Company, including with respect to the Merger Transactions;. • sales or dispositions by SoftBank of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us;. • the nature, quality and pricing of services SoftBank or its affiliates may agree to provide to the Company;. • arrangements with third parties that are exclusionary to SoftBank or its affiliates or the Company; and. • business opportunities that may be attractive to both SoftBank or its affiliates and the Company.. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of companies that are not \"controlled companies.\". SoftBank owns more than 50% of the total voting power of our common shares and, accordingly, we have elected to be treated as a \"controlled company\" under the NYSE corporate governance standards. As a controlled company, we are exempt under the NYSE standards from the obligation to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. • a majority of our board of directors consists of independent directors;. • we have a corporate governance and nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities;. • we have a Compensation Committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. • an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and governance committee and Compensation Committee be performed.. 24. Table of Contents. As a result of our use of the \"controlled company\" exemptions, holders of our common stock and debt securities may not have the same protection afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Regulatory authorities have imposed measures to protect national security and classified projects as well as other conditions that could have an adverse effect on Sprint.. As a precondition to approval of the SoftBank Merger, certain U.S. government agencies required that SoftBank and Sprint enter into certain agreements, including the NSA, under which SoftBank and Sprint have agreed to implement certain measures to protect national security, certain of which may materially and adversely affect our operating results due to increasing the cost of compliance with security measures, and limiting our control over certain U.S. facilities, contracts, personnel, vendor selection, and operations. If we fail to comply with our obligations under the NSA or other agreements, our ability to operate our business may be adversely effected."
