[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects, possibly materially. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Needs. We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will incur significant and increasing losses in the future.. We do not have any products approved by regulatory authorities for marketing and have not generated any revenue from product sales, and we continue to incur significant research, development and other expenses related to our ongoing operations. As a result, we are not profitable and have incurred losses in every reporting period since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we reported a net loss of $27.7 million and $17.4 million, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $79.2 million at December 31, 2017.. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We anticipate these losses to increase as our expenses increase, and we expect that our expenses will increase if and as we:. •  continue to develop and conduct clinical trials of our lead product candidate, inarigivir, including our ongoing Phase 2 ACHIEVE clinical trial of inarigivir for chronic HBV, which we refer to as the ACHIEVE trial;. •  continue preclinical development of SB 11285, our lead STING agonist product candidate, and initiate clinical trials of SB 11285, if supported by the preclinical data;. •  initiate and continue research and preclinical and clinical development efforts for our other product candidates, including SB 9225, a potential fixed-dose co-formulation product that combines inarigivir and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate;. •  seek to identify and develop additional product candidates;. •  seek regulatory and marketing approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials, if any;. •  establish sales, marketing, distribution and other commercial infrastructure in the future to commercialize various products for which we may obtain marketing approval, if any;. •  require the manufacture of larger quantities of product candidates for clinical development and potentially commercialization;. •  maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio;. •  hire and retain additional personnel, including clinical, quality control and scientific personnel;. •  add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our product development and help us comply with our obligations as a public company; and. •  add equipment and physical infrastructure to support our research and development programs and the buildout and transition to our new corporate headquarters.. We currently have no source of product revenue and may never become profitable.. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend upon our ability to generate revenue. We have not generated any revenue from product sales and do not expect to generate significant revenue unless and until we are able to gain regulatory approval of and commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidate that we may develop, in-license or acquire in the future. Even if we are able to successfully achieve regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, we do not. 30. know when we will generate revenue from product sales, if at all. Our ability to generate revenue from product sales of any of our product candidates also depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:. •  successfully complete development activities, including filing one or more investigational new drug, or IND, applications, enrollment of trial participants and completion of the necessary clinical trials;. •  enter into arrangements with third parties to further validate our technology and product candidates;. •  complete and submit New Drug Applications, or NDAs, to the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and obtain regulatory approvals from the FDA for our product candidates in indications for which there is a commercial market;. •  complete and submit applications to, and obtain regulatory approval from, regulatory authorities outside of the United States, or foreign regulatory authorities for our product candidates;. •  successfully commercialize any approved products;. •  manufacture or have manufactured commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels;. •  develop a commercial organization capable of manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution for any products we intend to sell ourselves in the markets in which we choose to commercialize such products on our own;. •  enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture, market, sell and distribute our approved products in other markets; and. •  obtain adequate pricing, coverage and reimbursement from third parties, including government and private payors.. Even if we are able to generate revenues from the sale of inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidate, we may not generate revenues that are large enough for us to become profitable. This is in part due to the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with product development, including uncertainties regarding the timing or amount of increased expenses. Even if we are able to complete the development and regulatory process for any of our product candidates, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing these products. Our failure to become and remain profitable would decrease the value of the Company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts, diversify our pipeline of product candidates or continue our operations. A decline in the value of the Company could cause you to lose all or part of your investment.. We intend to expend a significant amount of our limited resources on the development of our sole clinical stage product candidate, inarigivir, for antiviral applications and may fail to capitalize on other technologies, product candidates or other indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we are focusing a significant amount of our resources on the development of inarigivir, which concentrates the risk of product failure on inarigivir. Inarigivir may prove to be unsafe or ineffective. Because of this concentration of resources, we may forego or delay development of other technologies, product candidates or other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential.. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future research and development programs and product candidates may not yield any commercially viable products. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to the candidate through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to the product candidate.. We will require additional capital to fund our operations. If we fail to obtain necessary financing, we may be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our development and potential commercialization efforts for our product candidates.. Developing pharmaceutical products, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, is a very time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete. We expect our expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we initiate new clinical trials of, initiate new research and preclinical development efforts for and seek marketing approval for inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and any other product candidates.  Even if we obtain marketing approval for any of these product candidates, we may incur significant commercialization expenses.. 31. We plan to continue to use our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to continue development of our product candidates, particularly inarigivir, SB 11285 and SB 9225. We expect that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2017 will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements into the fourth quarter of 2019, but will not be sufficient to fund the initiation of any Phase 3 trial for inarigivir which could occur earlier than the fourth quarter of 2019.. We will be required to obtain further funding through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, collaborations and licensing arrangements or other sources. Adequate additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our failure to raise capital as and when needed would have a negative impact on our financial condition and our ability to pursue our business strategy, and we may be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or any future commercialization efforts. We do not have any committed external source of funds.. We have based our estimates on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could deploy our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. Further, changing circumstances, some of which may be beyond our control, could cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, and we may need to seek additional funds sooner than planned. Our future funding requirements, both near and long-term, will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. •  initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials of inarigivir, including our ACHIEVE trial;. •  initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of preclinical studies and, if applicable, clinical trials of SB 11285;. •  initiation, progress, timing, costs and results of preclinical studies and clinical trials of our other product candidates, including SB 9225;. •  our obligation to make royalty and non-royalty sublicense payments to third-party licensors, if any, under our licensing agreements;. •  the timing, receipt, and amount of milestone payments or royalties, if any, from inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates;. •  the number and characteristics of product candidates that we discover or in-license and develop;. •  the outcome, timing and cost of seeking regulatory review by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities, including the potential for the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities to require that we perform more studies than those that we currently expect;. •  the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and maintaining and enforcing other intellectual property rights;. •  subject to receipt of marketing approval, revenue, if any, received from commercial sales of inarigivir and any other products;. •  the costs and timing of the implementation of commercial-scale manufacturing activities;. •  the costs and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for any product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval;. •  the costs and timing of building out and transitioning to our new corporate headquarters in the first half of 2018; and. •  the costs of operating as a public company.. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or our other product candidates or technologies.. Until we can generate substantial revenue from product sales, if ever, we expect to seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings, strategic collaborations and/or alliances and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interests of existing stockholders may be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include provisions that adversely affect the. 32. rights of existing stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include liens or other restrictive covenants limiting our ability to take important actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Securing additional financing could require a substantial amount of time and attention from our management and may divert a disproportionate amount of their attention away from day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our management's ability to oversee the development of inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and our other product candidates.. We have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-218399), or the Shelf Registration Statement, on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to which we may, from time to time, sell up to an aggregate of $103.5 million (as of December 31, 2017) of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants, purchase rights, units, or debt securities.  During the second quarter of 2017, we issued and sold an aggregate of 3,269,219 shares of our common stock at $13.00 per share in an underwritten public offering under the Shelf Registration Statement. In August 2017, we established an at-the-market offering program with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., or Cantor, pursuant to which we may offer and sell shares of our common stock with an aggregate purchase price of up to $50.0 million pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. During the fourth quarter of 2017, we sold an aggregate of 252,443 shares of our common stock pursuant to this at-the-market offering program at a weighted average selling price of $15.55 per share. Future sales of securities under the Shelf Registration Statement, including any sales under the at-the-market offering program, could result in dilution of our stockholders and could have a negative impact on our stock price.. If we raise additional funds through strategic collaborations and alliances or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, and we may be required to issue shares of our capital stock that may dilute our existing stockholders. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market our technologies that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.. We anticipate that we may need to enter into additional collaborations and relationships with strategic and development partners to develop our product candidates and market any approved products and we may be unable to attract additional collaborations with other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to advance the development of inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and any of our other product candidates.. We currently do not possess all of the financial and development resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from our technologies. Unless we expand our product development capacity and enhance our internal marketing capability, we will need to make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to develop and commercialize any product candidates that may be approved.  A component of our business strategy includes obtaining strategic collaborations and alliances or licensing arrangements with other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to further validate and advance the development of inarigivir, SB 11285 and certain of our other product candidates. We may not be able to attract such partners, and even if we are able to enter into such partnerships, the terms may be less favorable than anticipated. Further, entering into partnership agreements may limit our commercialization options and/or require us to share revenues and profits with our partners, and we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to enter into any of these agreements on commercially attractive terms, we may be unable to develop certain programs due to a limited availability of resources.. Risks Related to the Discovery, Development and Commercialization of Our Product Candidates. Our future success is substantially dependent on the successful clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization of inarigivir and/or SB 9225, and will require significant capital resources and years of additional clinical development effort. If we are unable to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize inarigivir or experience significant delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed.. We do not have any products that have gained regulatory approval. As a result, our business is dependent on our ability to successfully complete clinical development of, obtain regulatory approval for, and, if approved, to successfully commercialize inarigivir and/or SB 9225 in a timely manner. The success of inarigivir and/or SB 9225 will depend on several factors, including the following:. •  successful initiation and completion of our ongoing ACHIEVE trial;. •  successful completion of additional studies to support additional clinical trials;. •  initiation and successful enrollment and completion of additional clinical trials;. •  our ability to enter into arrangements with third parties to further validate inarigivir;. •  safety, tolerability and efficacy profiles that are satisfactory to the FDA or any comparable foreign regulatory authority for marketing approval;. 33. •  timely receipt of marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities;. •  the performance of our collaborators;. •  establishment of supply arrangements with third-party raw materials suppliers and manufacturers;. •  establishment of arrangements with third-party manufacturers to obtain finished drug products that are appropriately packaged for sale;. •  obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity, both in the United States and internationally;. •  protection of our rights in our intellectual property portfolio;. •  successful launch of commercial sales following any marketing approval;. •  a continued acceptable safety profile following any marketing approval;. •  commercial acceptance by patients, the medical community and third-party payors following any marketing approval; and. •  our ability to compete with other therapies, including therapies targeting viral hepatitis and other antiviral applications.. Many of these factors are beyond our control, including the regulatory submission process, potential threats to our intellectual property rights and the manufacturing, marketing and sales efforts of any collaborators. If we are unable to develop, receive marketing approval for and successfully commercialize inarigivir and/or SB 9225 or experience delays because of any of these factors or otherwise, our business could be substantially harmed.. We plan to conduct multiple clinical trials of inarigivir. If patients in any of these trials experience adverse safety events, we may be required to delay, discontinue or modify all of our clinical trials of inarigivir.. Research and development goals may not be achieved in the time frames that we publicly estimate, which could have an adverse impact on our business and could cause our stock price to decline.. We set goals, and make public statements regarding our expectations, regarding the timing of certain accomplishments, developments and milestones under our research and development programs. The actual timing of these events can vary significantly due to a number of factors, including, without limitation, the amount of time, effort and resources committed to our programs by us and any collaborators and the uncertainties inherent in the clinical development and regulatory approval process. As a result, there can be no assurance that we or any collaborators will initiate or complete clinical development activities, make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we or any collaborators will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the achievement of key milestones under any of our programs. If we or any collaborators fail to achieve one or more of the milestones as planned, our business could be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock could decline.. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be predictive of results in future clinical trials.. The outcome of preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the results of later clinical trials and interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict success in such clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including those with greater resources and experience, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after seeing promising results in earlier preclinical studies and clinical trials. The results from our in vitro and in vivo preclinical studies may not translate into human efficacy.. We have only completed a Phase 1 clinical trial of inarigivir in patients with HCV, and more recently, we completed the first two low dose cohorts of our ACHIEVE trial in patients with chronic HBV. In the Phase 1 HCV trial, we evaluated inarigivir in 38 non-cirrhotic HCV infected patients as a monotherapy treatment for up to seven days. We conducted the Phase 1 clinical trial in Australia and New Zealand in 2013 and 2014. We expect that the dose and frequency will be different for other indications of antiviral therapy. For instance, in our ACHIEVE trial, the dose of inarigivir for chronic HBV is of longer duration (12 weeks) and involves sequential and combination therapy with other antiviral agents. As a result, our Phase 1 clinical trial results in HCV and our results to date in our ACHIEVE trial may not be indicative of future results in our clinical trials in patients with chronic HBV.. 34. In some instances, there can be significant variability in safety or efficacy results between different clinical trials of the same product candidate due to numerous factors, including changes in trial procedures set forth in protocols, differences in the size and type of the patient populations, changes in and adherence to the dosing regimen and other clinical trial protocols and the rate of dropout among clinical trial participants. If we fail to receive positive results in clinical trials of inarigivir, SB 11285 or SB 9224, the development timeline and regulatory approval and commercialization prospects for such product candidate, and, correspondingly, our business and financial prospects, would be negatively impacted.. Interim, \"top-line,\" and preliminary data from our clinical trials that we announce or publish from time to time may change as more patient data become available or as additional analyses are conducted, and the data are subject to audit and verification procedures that could result in material changes in the final data.. From time to time, we may publish interim, \"top-line,\" or preliminary data from our clinical studies. For instance, in 2017, we reported top-line results from the initial two low dose inarigivir monotherapy dosing cohorts of Part A the ACHIEVE clinical trial. Interim data from clinical trials that we may complete are subject to the risk that one or more of the clinical outcomes may materially change as patient enrollment continues and more patient data become available. Preliminary or \"top-line\" data also remain subject to audit and verification procedures that may result in the final data being materially different from the preliminary data we previously published. As a result, interim and preliminary data should be viewed with caution until the final data are available. Material adverse changes between preliminary, \"top-line,\" or interim data and final data could significantly harm our business prospects.. The therapeutic efficacy of inarigivir, SB 11285 and our other product candidates is unproven in humans, and we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates.. Inarigivir, SB 11285 and our other product candidates are novel compounds and their potential benefit as antiviral drugs, immunotherapies or immunomodulators, as applicable, is unproven. Inarigivir, SB 11285 and our other product candidates may not prove to be effective against the indications for which they are being designed to act and may not demonstrate in clinical trials any or all of the pharmacological effects that have been observed in preclinical studies.. Inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and our other product candidates may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. If any of our product candidates is associated with undesirable side effects or have characteristics that are unexpected, we may need to abandon the development of such product candidate or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Because of these and other risks described herein that are inherent in the development of novel therapeutic agents, we may never successfully develop or commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates, in which case our business will be harmed.. Clinical development of product candidates involves a lengthy and expensive process. Additionally, there are substantial risks inherent in attempting to commercialize new drugs, and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop products for commercial use.. We may experience delays in our ongoing or future preclinical or clinical trials and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin or enroll subjects on a timely basis, need to be redesigned or be completed on schedule, if at all. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process, including failure to demonstrate efficacy in a clinical trial or across a broad population of patients, the occurrence of adverse events that are severe or medically or commercially unacceptable, failure to comply with protocols or applicable regulatory requirements and determination by the FDA or any comparable foreign regulatory authority that a product candidate may not continue development or is not approvable.. There can be no assurance that the FDA or other foreign regulatory authority will not put clinical trials of inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates on clinical hold now or in the future. Clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or prematurely terminated or may take longer than anticipated for a variety of reasons, such as:. •  delay or failure in reaching agreement with the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority on a trial design that we are able to execute;. •  delay or failure in obtaining authorization to commence a trial or inability to comply with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of a clinical trial;. •  delay or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. 35. •  delay or failure in obtaining Investigational Review Board, or IRB, approval or the approval of other reviewing entities, including comparable foreign regulatory authorities, to conduct a clinical trial at a site;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial sites from our clinical trials as a result of changing standards of care or the ineligibility of a site to participate in our clinical trials;. •  delay or failure in recruiting and enrolling suitable study subjects to participate in a trial;. •  delay or failure in study subjects completing a trial or returning for post-treatment follow-up or otherwise complying with the trial protocol;. •  clinical sites and investigators deviating from the trial protocol, failing to conduct the trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or dropping out of a trial;. •  inability to identify and maintain a sufficient number of trial sites, many of which may already be engaged in other clinical trial programs, including some that may be for competing product candidates with the same indication;. •  failure of our third-party service providers to satisfy their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines;. •  delay or failure in adding new clinical trial sites;. •  feedback from the FDA, the IRBs, data safety monitoring boards, or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, or results from earlier stage or concurrent preclinical studies and clinical trials, that might require modification of the protocol for the trial;. •  decision by the FDA, the IRBs, comparable foreign regulatory authorities, or us, or recommendation by a data safety monitoring board or comparable foreign regulatory authority, to suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time for safety issues or for any other reason;. •  unacceptable risk-benefit profile, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects or adverse events;. •  failure of a product candidate to demonstrate any benefit;. •  difficulties in manufacturing or obtaining from third parties sufficient quantities of a product candidate for use in clinical trials;. •  lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional clinical studies or increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; or. •  changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions.. We have not submitted an IND application to the FDA or similar drug approval filings to any comparable foreign regulatory entity for inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidate. We may not conduct any clinical trials for any particular product candidate in the United States until we submit an IND to the FDA for such product candidate. Because we may develop inarigivir or SB 11285 for multiple indications, we may be required to submit multiple INDs to the FDA for these indications and may not conduct a clinical trial in the United States for that indication unless we do so.. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured, or will be completed on schedule or at all. If we experience delays in any preclinical or clinical trial of our product candidates, the product candidate development and approval process could be slowed down, and as a result the costs of the development and approval process may increase, the commercial prospects of our product candidates may be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from these product candidates may be delayed. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully and may harm our business and results of operations. In addition, many of the factors that lead to clinical trial delays may ultimately lead to the denial of marketing approval of any of our product candidates.. 36. If we or our collaborators experience delays or difficulties in the enrollment of patients in clinical trials, our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals could be delayed or prevented.. We or our collaborators may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for any of our product candidates if we or our collaborators, as applicable, are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in clinical trials as required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, such as the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA. Patient enrollment is a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, and is affected by many factors, including:. •  the size and nature of the patient population;. •  the severity of the disease under investigation;. •  the proximity of patients to clinical sites;. •  the eligibility criteria for the trial;. •  the design of the clinical trial;. •  efforts to facilitate timely enrollment;. •  competing clinical trials; and. •  clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages and risks of the product candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating.. For instance, in our Phase 1 clinical trial of inarigivir in patients with HCV, we experienced significant delays in enrollment due to competing clinical trials in patients with HCV being conducted by other biopharmaceutical companies. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients for our clinical trials could result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether. Enrollment delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates, delay or halt the development of and approval processes for our product candidates and jeopardize our ability to commence sales of and generate revenues from our product candidates, which could cause the value of our company to decline.. If clinical trials of our product candidates fail to satisfactorily demonstrate safety and efficacy to the FDA and other comparable foreign regulators, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. We are not permitted to commercialize, market, promote or sell any product candidate in the United States without obtaining marketing approval from the FDA. Comparable foreign regulatory authorities, such as the EMA, impose similar restrictions. We may never receive such approvals. We must complete extensive preclinical development and clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans before we will be able to obtain these approvals.. We have never obtained marketing approval for a product candidate and we may be unable to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, marketing approval for any of our product candidates.  Furthermore, any inability to complete preclinical and clinical development successfully could result in additional costs to us and impair our ability to generate revenues. Moreover, if (1) we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond the trials and testing that we, or they contemplate, (2) we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials of our product candidates or other testing, (3) the results of these clinical trials or tests are unfavorable, uncertain or are only modestly favorable or (4) there are unacceptable safety concerns associated with our product candidates, we may:. •  be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates;. •  not obtain marketing approval at all;. •  obtain approval for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as intended or desired;. •  obtain approval with labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or significant safety warnings, including boxed warnings;. 37. •  be subject to additional post-marketing testing or other requirements; or. •  be required to remove the product from the market after obtaining marketing approval.. If we experience any of a number of possible unforeseen events in connection with clinical trials of our product candidates, potential marketing approval or commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or prevented.. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent marketing approval or commercialization of our product candidates, including:. •  clinical trials of our product candidates may produce unfavorable or inconclusive results;. •  we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs;. •  the number of patients required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, patient enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate;. •  the cost of planned clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate;. •  our third-party contractors, including those manufacturing our product candidates or components or ingredients thereof or conducting clinical trials on our behalf, may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner or at all;. •  regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;. •  we may have delays in reaching or fail to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites;. •  patients that enroll in a clinical trial may misrepresent their eligibility to do so or may otherwise not comply with the clinical trial protocol, resulting in the need to drop the patients from the clinical trial, increase the needed enrollment size for the clinical trial or extend the clinical trial's duration;. •  we may have to delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics of the product candidate;. •  regulators or institutional review boards may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or their standards of conduct, a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics of the product candidate or findings of undesirable effects caused by a chemically or mechanistically similar product or product candidate;. •  the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our clinical trial designs or our interpretation of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials;. •  the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve or subsequently find fault with the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we enter into agreements for clinical and commercial supplies;. •  the supply or quality of raw materials or manufactured product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates may be insufficient, inadequate or not available at an acceptable cost, or we may experience interruptions in supply; and. •  the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient to obtain marketing approval.. 38. Product development costs for us will increase if we experience delays in testing or pursuing marketing approvals and we will be required to obtain additional funds to complete clinical trials and prepare for possible commercialization of our product candidates.. Inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidate may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent its regulatory approval or limit the commercial profile of an approved label.. Undesirable side effects caused by inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidate could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in a restrictive label or the delay or denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other comparable foreign regulatory authorities.. Results of our trials could reveal an unacceptably high severity and prevalence of side effects. In such an event, our trials could be suspended or terminated and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities could order us to cease further development of or deny approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Study drug-related side effects could affect study subject recruitment or the ability of enrolled subjects to complete the trial or result in potential product liability claims.. If inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates is associated with adverse events or undesirable side effects or has properties that are unexpected, we may need to abandon development or limit development of that product candidate to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Many compounds that initially showed promise in clinical or earlier stage testing have later been found to cause undesirable or unexpected side effects that prevented further development of the compound.. Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of inarigivir as a monotherapy or in combination with other antiviral agents or of any other product candidates, if approved, among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success, and the market opportunity for the product candidate may be smaller than we estimate.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for inarigivir or SB 9225 or any other product candidate in chronic HBV or other indications, our product candidate may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients or the medical community. For example, physicians are often reluctant to switch their patients from existing therapies even when new and potentially more effective or convenient treatments enter the market. Further, patients often acclimate to the therapy that they are currently taking and do not want to switch unless their physicians recommend switching products or they are required to switch therapies due to lack of coverage or reimbursement for existing therapies.. Efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may not be successful. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including the:. •  efficacy and safety of our product candidates administered with other drugs each as demonstrated in clinical trials and post-marketing experience;. •  clinical indications for which our product candidates are approved;. •  potential and perceived advantages of our product candidates over alternative treatments;. •  safety of our product candidates seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications should physicians choose to prescribe for such uses;. •  prevalence and severity of any side effects;. •  product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities;. •  timing of market introduction of our product candidates as well as of competitive products;. •  cost of treatment with our product candidates in relation to alternative treatments;. •  availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing by third-party payors and government authorities;. •  adverse publicity about our product candidates or favorable publicity about competitive products;. •  the convenience and ease of administration of our product candidates as compared to alternative treatments;. 39. •  effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; and. •  changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for the product candidate.. Moreover, if inarigivir or SB 9225 is approved but fails to achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, or healthcare providers are restricted, withdrawn or recalled or fail to be approved, as the case may be, we may not be able to generate significant revenues, which would compromise our ability to become profitable.. There are also FDA-approved vaccinations available for children and high-risk adults that protect against HBV, but do not reverse or cure the disease in people who have already contracted the virus. These vaccines are manufactured by Merck & Co., Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Plc and are widely available in the United States (and less available in certain parts of the world), and have limited side effects.  If there is an increase in usage of these vaccinations, it could negatively impact the size of our addressable market.. The potential market opportunities for our product candidates are difficult to estimate precisely. Our estimates of the potential market opportunities are predicated on many assumptions, including industry knowledge and publications, third-party research reports and other surveys. While we believe that our internal assumptions are reasonable, these assumptions involve the exercise of significant judgment on the part of our management, are inherently uncertain and the reasonableness of these assumptions has not been assessed by an independent source. If any of the assumptions proves to be inaccurate, the actual markets for our product candidates could be smaller than our estimates of the potential market opportunities.. Even if we are able to commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidate, the product candidate may not receive coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, which could harm our business.. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of our product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. Our ability to commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidate successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for such product candidate will be available from third party payors, including government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, determine which medications they will cover and establish reimbursement levels.. Obtaining and maintaining adequate reimbursement for our product candidates, if approved, may be difficult. The process for determining whether a third-party payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price of a product or for establishing the reimbursement rate that such a payor will pay for the product. Further, one payor's determination to provide coverage for a product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage and adequate reimbursement for the product. We cannot be certain if and when we will obtain an adequate level of coverage and reimbursement for our products, if they are approved, by third-party payors.. A primary trend in the United States healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical drugs. Third-party payors may also seek with respect to an approved product additional clinical evidence, beyond the data required to obtain marketing approval, demonstrating clinical benefits and value in specific patient populations or costly pharmacoeconomic studies to justify coverage and reimbursement or the level of reimbursement relative to other therapies before covering inarigivir, SB 11285 or any other product candidate. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for any of these product candidates and, if it is available, whether the level of reimbursement will be adequate. Coverage and reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of any of our product candidates, if approved. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285 or any other product candidate successfully, if approved.. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the indications for which the drug is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may only be temporary. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. Our inability to obtain coverage and profitable. 40. reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.. The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive. We expect that we will face competition with respect to inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and any other product candidates that we may seek to develop or commercialize, from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide. For instance, there are a number of large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that currently market and sell products or are pursuing the development of products for the treatment of chronic HBV. Some of these competitive products and therapies are based on scientific approaches that are the same as or similar to our approach, and others are based on entirely different approaches. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization.. We expect inarigivir and SB 9225 to face intense and increasing competition as new products enter the relevant antiviral markets and advanced technologies become available. FDA-approved treatments for patients with chronic HBV include pegylated interferon-a, or PEG-IFN-a, products including Pegasys (PEG-IFN a-2a), marketed by Genentech, Inc., and PEG-Intron (PEG-IFN a-2b), marketed by Merck & Co., Inc., and oral antiviral agents such as the nucleoside analog Baraclude (entecavir), marketed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and the nucleotide analogs Viread (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Vemlidy (tenofovir alafenamide), both marketed by Gilead Sciences, Inc. These treatments are designed to decrease the risk of liver damage from chronic HBV by slowing down or stopping the virus from reproducing. In addition, several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Arbutus Biopharma Corp., Arrowhead Research Corporation, or Arrowhead, Assembly Biosciences, Inc., Gilead Sciences, Inc. and Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., are developing therapies with varying mechanisms of action to address chronic HBV, including non-nucleotide antivirals and non-interferon immune enhancers.. There are a variety of available antiviral therapies and supportive care products for viral diseases. Some of these other drugs are branded and subject to patent protection, some are in clinical development and not yet approved, and others are available on a generic basis. Many of the approved drugs are well-established therapies or products and are widely accepted by physicians, patients and third-party payors. Insurers and other third-party payors may also encourage the use of generic products. These factors may make it difficult for us to achieve market acceptance at desired levels and/or in a timely manner to ensure viability of our business.. Many of our existing and potential future competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining marketing approvals and marketing approved products than we do.. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products before we are able to, which may limit our ability to develop or commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are safer, more effective, more convenient or less expensive than ours, and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. In addition, our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing technologies and drug products that are more effective, have fewer or more tolerable side effects or are less costly than any product candidates that we are currently developing or that we may develop. These appreciable advantages could reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunity and render inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidates obsolete or non-competitive.. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller and other early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, management and commercial personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and subject registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.. 41. Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidates.. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates by us or our investigators in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates if and after we obtain regulatory approval. Product liability claims may be brought against us by study subjects enrolled in our clinical trials, patients, healthcare providers or others using, administering or selling inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates caused injuries, we could incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in, for example:. •  decreased demand for inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any of our other product candidates;. •  the inability to commercialize these product candidates;. •  termination of clinical trial sites or entire trial programs;. •  injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial subjects;. •  significant costs to defend the related litigation;. •  substantial monetary awards to clinical trial subjects or patients;. •  loss of revenue;. •  diversion of management and scientific resources from our business operations; and. •  increased scrutiny and potential investigation by, among others, the FDA, the United States Department of Justice, or DOJ, the Office of Inspector General of the office of Health and Human Services, or HHS, state attorneys general, members of Congress and the public.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of computer system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs and other third parties on which we rely, are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, fire, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Like other companies, we may from time to time experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures and disruptions. In addition, our systems safeguard important confidential personal data regarding our subjects. If a disruption event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or man-made disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce inarigivir and expect to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our other product candidates in the future. Our ability to obtain clinical supplies of inarigivir or other product candidates could be disrupted if the operations of these suppliers are affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural disaster.. 42. Our corporate headquarters is located in Hopkinton, Massachusetts. We plan to relocate our current corporate headquarters to another location in Hopkinton, Massachusetts during the second quarter of 2018. There are uncertainties related to the relocation that may cause unexpected disruptions to our operations. We can give no assurance that the relocation will be completed as planned or within the expected timing. In addition, the relocation costs may exceed our estimates, and the expected benefits of the move may not be fully realized due to associated disruption to operations and to personnel.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. We rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines or their relationship with us is terminated, our business may be harmed and our drug development efforts could be delayed.. We rely on third-party research vendors, academic research institutions, CROs, and other third parties to conduct and provide us with significant data and other information related to our projects, preclinical studies and clinical trials. We rely on these parties for execution of our preclinical studies and clinical trials, and we control only some aspects of their activities.  If these third parties provide inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete data, our business, prospects, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our preclinical studies and clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol and legal, regulatory and scientific standards, and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We also rely on third parties to assist in conducting our preclinical studies in accordance with good laboratory practice, or GLP, and the Animal Welfare Act requirements. We and our service providers are required to comply with federal regulations and good clinical practice or GCP, which are international standards meant to protect the rights and health of subjects that are enforced by the FDA, the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities enforce GCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our service providers fail to comply with applicable GCP, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot guarantee that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP requirements. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs. Failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat preclinical studies and clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. Our service providers are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such service providers, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our ongoing clinical, nonclinical and preclinical programs. If service providers do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical studies and clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize inarigivir. As a result, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for inarigivir would be harmed, our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. Because we have relied and continue to rely on third parties, our internal capacity to perform these functions is limited. Outsourcing these functions involves risk that third parties may not perform to our standards, may not produce results in a timely manner or may fail to perform at all. In addition, the use of third-party service providers requires us to disclose our proprietary information to these parties, which could increase the risk that this information will be misappropriated. We currently have a small number of employees, which limits the internal resources we have available to identify and monitor our third-party providers. To the extent we are unable to identify and successfully manage the performance of third-party service providers in the future, our business may be adversely affected. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our service providers, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects.. Our third-party vendors and service providers generally have the right to terminate their agreements with us under certain circumstances. Identifying, qualifying and managing performance of third-party service providers can be difficult, time consuming and cause delays in our development programs. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new third-party vendor or service provider commences work, and the new third-party vendor or service provider may not provide the same type or level of services as the original provider. If any of our relationships with our third-party vendors or service providers terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative third-party vendors or service providers or to do so on commercially reasonable terms.. 43. We have no experience manufacturing any product candidate on a commercial scale and have no manufacturing facility. We are dependent on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of inarigivir as well as on third parties for our supply chain and expect to rely on contract manufacturers for any other product candidates. If we experience problems with any such contract manufacturers, the manufacturing of inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidate could be delayed.. We currently have no manufacturing facilities and limited personnel with manufacturing experience. We rely on contract manufacturers to produce both drug substance and drug product required for our clinical trials. We plan to continue to rely upon contract manufacturers to manufacture commercial quantities of our products, if approved. Reliance on such third-party contractors entails risks, including:. •  manufacturing delays if our third-party contractors give greater priority to the supply of other products over our product candidates or otherwise do not satisfactorily perform according to the terms of the agreements between us and them;. •  the possible termination or nonrenewal of agreements by our third-party contractors at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us;. •  the possible breach by the third-party contractors of our agreements with them;. •  the failure of third-party contractors to comply with applicable regulatory requirements;. •  the possible mislabeling of clinical supplies, potentially resulting in the wrong dose amounts being supplied or active drug or placebo not being properly identified;. •  the possibility of clinical supplies not being delivered to clinical sites on time, leading to clinical trial interruptions, or of drug supplies not being distributed to commercial vendors in a timely manner, resulting in lost sales; and. •  the possible misappropriation of our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and know-how.. We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a small number of third-party contract manufacturers to supply the majority of our active pharmaceutical ingredient and required finished product for our preclinical studies and clinical trials. These contract manufacturers are typically single source suppliers to us. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these third parties. If any of our existing manufacturers become unavailable to us for any reason, we may experience a delay in identifying or qualifying replacements.. For instance, in 2016, we had to transition the manufacture of the drug substance for inarigivir to another supplier. While we currently believe we have sufficient drug substance to complete our ongoing Phase 2 clinical trials of inarigivir for chronic HBV, if the supply of drug substance turns out to be insufficient to complete such trials or we are unable to obtain alternative sources of supply on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all, our business may be adversely affected.. Any manufacturing problem or the loss of a contract manufacturer could be disruptive to our operations, delay our clinical trials and, if our products are approved for sale, result in lost sales. Additionally, we rely on third parties to supply the raw materials needed to manufacture our product candidates. Any reliance on suppliers may involve several risks, including a potential inability to obtain critical materials and reduced control over production costs, delivery schedules, reliability and quality. Any unanticipated disruption to future contract manufacture caused by problems at suppliers could delay shipment of our product candidates, increase our cost of goods sold and result in lost sales.. If any of our product candidates are approved by any regulatory agency, we plan to enter into agreements with third-party contract manufacturers for the commercial production and distribution of those products. It may be difficult for us to reach agreement with a contract manufacturer on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. In addition, we may face competition for access to manufacturing facilities, as there are a limited number of contract manufacturers operating under cGMPs that are capable of manufacturing our product candidates. Consequently, we may not be able to reach agreement with third-party manufacturers on satisfactory terms, which could delay our commercialization efforts.. Third-party manufacturers are required to comply with cGMPs and similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Facilities used by our third-party manufacturers must be approved by the FDA after we submit an NDA and before potential approval of the product candidate. Similar regulations apply to manufacturers of our product candidates for use or sale in foreign countries. We do not control the manufacturing process and are completely dependent on our third-party manufacturers for compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements for the manufacture of our product candidates. If our manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications or the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA and any applicable foreign regulatory authority, they will not be able to secure the applicable approval for their manufacturing facilities. If. 44. these facilities are not approved for commercial manufacture, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which could result in delays in obtaining approval for the applicable product candidate.. In addition, our manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic inspections by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMPs and similar regulatory requirements both prior to and following the receipt of marketing approval for any of our product candidates. Some of these inspections may be unannounced. Failure by any of our manufacturers to comply with applicable cGMPs or other regulatory requirements could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspensions or withdrawals of approvals, operating restrictions, interruptions in supply and criminal prosecutions, any of which could adversely affect supplies of our product candidates and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to commercialize any products that receive marketing approval on a timely and competitive basis.. If we enter into additional licensing or collaboration agreements with third parties to develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285 or any other product candidates, our prospects with respect to those product candidates will depend in significant part on the success of those collaborations.. We are a party to preclinical and clinical collaborations with third parties to evaluate the combination of our product candidates and the third party's product candidate, including our ACHIEVE trial being conducted under our clinical trial supply and collaboration with Gilead. We expect to enter into additional collaborations with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies in developing our product candidates, including inarigivir, SB 11285 and our other product candidates. Under such collaborations, we have or may have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators will dedicate to the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will, in part, depend on our collaborators' abilities to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. In addition, in the case of collaborations intended to evaluate the combination of inarigivir, SB 11285 and other product candidates, the success of any such collaboration may depend on the success of the development of the product or product candidate that our collaborator is developing.  For instance, in the event that any of these third parties have unforeseen issues that negatively impact their clinical development or marketing approval for their products or product candidates or otherwise negatively affect their ability to continue to clinically develop or market their products or product candidates, our ability to complete our applicable clinical trials and/or evaluate clinical results and, ultimately, our ability to receive regulatory approval for our product candidates for the indications we are pursuing may also be negatively impacted.. Collaborations involving our product candidates pose a number of risks, including the following:. •  collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will devote to these collaborations;. •  collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected;. •  collaborators may not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs, based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborators' strategic focus or available funding or external factors, such as an acquisition, that divert resources or create competing priorities;. •  collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;. •  a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of such product or products;. •  disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of product candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to product candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would be time-consuming and expensive;. •  collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;. 45. •  collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability; and. •  collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates.. Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. If any future collaborator of ours is involved in a business combination, it could decide to delay, diminish or terminate the development or commercialization of any product candidate licensed to it by us.. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to secure additional collaborative licensing or other arrangements that are necessary for us to further develop and commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the potential differentiation of our product candidate from competing product candidates, design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities and the regulatory pathway for any such approval, the potential market for the product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering the product to patients and the potential of competing products. The collaborator may also consider alternative product candidates or technologies for similar indications that may be available for collaboration and whether such a collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for our product candidate. Supporting diligence activities conducted by potential collaborators and negotiating the financial and other terms of a collaboration agreement are long and complex processes with uncertain results. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may have to curtail the development of the product candidate for which we are seeking to collaborate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of any sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may not be able to further develop our product candidates or bring them to market and generate product revenue.. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval and Marketing of Our Product Candidates and Other Legal Compliance Matters. Even if we complete the necessary preclinical studies and clinical trials, the marketing approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or any future collaborators from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or our other product candidates. As a result, we cannot predict when or if, and in which territories, we, or any future collaborators, will obtain marketing approval to commercialize inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or our other product candidates.. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, marketing, promotion and distribution of products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. We, and any future collaborators, are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the United States or in other countries until we, or they, receive approval of an NDA from the FDA or marketing approval from applicable foreign regulatory authorities. Product candidates in various stages of development are subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. We have not submitted an application for or received marketing approval for inarigivir, SB 11285 or any of our product candidates in the United States or in any other jurisdiction. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain marketing approvals, including FDA approval of an NDA.. The process of obtaining marketing approvals, both in the United States and abroad, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. It may take many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Securing marketing approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate's safety and efficacy. Securing marketing approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the regulatory authorities. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may determine that inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and our other product candidates are not safe and effective, only moderately effective or have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that preclude us from obtaining marketing approval or prevent or limit commercial use. Any marketing approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable.. In addition, changes in marketing approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment or promulgation of additional statutes, regulations or guidance or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application. 46. may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent marketing approval of a product candidate.. Reasons that the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not approve our product candidates, include:. •  the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design or implementation of our clinical trials;. •  we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for its proposed indication;. •  the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval;. •  we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate's clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;. •  the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. •  the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere;. •  the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and. •  the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could negatively affect our ability or that of any future collaborators to generate revenue from the particular product candidate, which likely would result in significant harm to our financial position and adversely impact our stock price.. A Breakthrough Therapy Designation by the FDA, even if granted for any of our product candidates, may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process, and does not increase the likelihood that our product candidates will receive marketing approval.. We do not currently have Breakthrough Therapy Designation for any of our product candidates but may seek such designation. A Breakthrough Therapy Designation may be granted to a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and for which preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. For drugs that have been designated as Breakthrough Therapies, interaction and communication between the FDA and the sponsor can help to identify the most efficient path for development. Drugs designated as Breakthrough Therapies are also eligible for accelerated approval.. Designation as a Breakthrough Therapy is within the discretion of the FDA. Accordingly, even if we believe, after completing early clinical trials, that one of our product candidates meets the criteria for designation as a Breakthrough Therapy, the FDA may disagree and instead determine not to grant such designation. In any event, the receipt of a Breakthrough Therapy designation by itself for a product candidate may not result in a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional FDA procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the FDA. In addition, even if one or more of our product candidates qualify as a Breakthrough Therapy, the FDA may later decide that such product candidates no longer meet the conditions for qualification.. 47. A Fast Track Designation by the FDA, even if granted for any of our product candidates, may not lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process and does not increase the likelihood that our product candidates will receive marketing approval.. We do not currently have Fast Track Designation for any of our product candidates but may seek such designation. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical needs for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA Fast Track Designation. The FDA has broad discretion whether to grant this designation. Even if we believe a particular product candidate is eligible for this designation, we cannot assure you that the FDA would decide to grant it. Even if we do receive Fast Track Designation, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. The FDA may withdraw Fast Track Designation if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. Many drugs that have received Fast Track Designation have failed to obtain drug approval.. Failure to obtain marketing approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent inarigivir from being marketed abroad. Any approval we are granted in the United States would not assure approval in foreign jurisdictions.. In order to market and sell our products in the European Union and other foreign jurisdictions, including Japan, China and South Korea, we, and any future collaborators, must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ substantially from that required to obtain FDA approval. The marketing approval process outside the United States generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. In addition, in many countries outside the United States, a product must be approved for reimbursement before the product can be approved for sale in that country. We, and any future collaborators, may not obtain approvals from foreign regulatory authorities on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may file for marketing approvals but not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we are unable to obtain approval of our product candidates by regulatory authorities in the European Union, Japan, China, South Korea or another foreign country or jurisdiction, the commercial prospects of our product candidates may be significantly diminished and our business prospects could decline.. Any of our product candidates for which we, or any future collaborators, obtain marketing approval in the future could be subject to post-marketing restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we, or any future collaborators, may be subject to substantial penalties if we, or they, fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we, or they, experience unanticipated problems with our products following approval.. Any of our product candidates for which we, or any future collaborators, obtain marketing approval, as well as the manufacturing processes, post-approval studies and measures, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, among other things, will be subject to ongoing requirements of and review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping. Thus, even if marketing approval of inarigivir or another product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, including the requirement to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy.. The FDA may also impose requirements for costly post-marketing studies or clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product. The FDA and other agencies, including the Department of Justice, closely regulate and monitor the post-approval marketing and promotion of products to ensure that they are manufactured, marketed and distributed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling. The FDA imposes stringent restrictions on manufacturers' communications regarding off-label use and if we, or any future collaborators, do not market any of our product candidates for which we, or they, receive marketing approval for only their approved indications, we, or they, may be subject to warnings or enforcement action for off-label marketing. Similar post-market requirements may apply in foreign jurisdictions in which we may seek approval of our products. Violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other statutes, including the False Claims Act, relating to the promotion and advertising of prescription drugs may lead to investigations or allegations of violations of federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws and state consumer protection laws.. 48. In addition, the holder of an approved NDA is obligated to monitor and report adverse events and any failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA. Later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or other problems with our products or their manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may yield various results, including:. •  restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes;. •  restrictions on the labeling or marketing of a product;. •  restrictions on product distribution or use;. •  requirements to conduct post-marketing studies or clinical trials;. •  warning letters or untitled letters asserting that we are in violation of the law;. •  withdrawal of the products from the market;. •  refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;. •  recall of products;. •  restrictions on coverage by third-party payors;. •  fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenues;. •  suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals;. •  refusal to permit the import or export of products;. •  product seizure;. •  refusal to permit us to enter into government contracts; or. •  injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenues.. We are subject to healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, curtailment or restricting of our operations, and diminished profits and future earnings.. Healthcare providers, physicians and others will play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any products for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with healthcare providers, patients and third-party payors will expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute any products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable US federal and state healthcare laws and regulations include the following:. Anti-Kickback Statute. The federal healthcare Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of, any good, facility, item or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation;. 49. False Claims Laws. Federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalties laws, including the federal False Claims Act, impose criminal and civil penalties, including through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented to the federal government claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items and services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;. HIPAA. The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or for making any false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate the statute in order to have committed a violation. Additionally, HIPAA, as amended by HITECH and its implementing regulations, imposes obligations on certain covered entities as well as their business associates that perform certain services involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, including mandatory contractual terms with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information, and require notification to affected individuals and regulatory authorities of certain breaches of security of individually identifiable health information;. Transparency Requirements. The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children's Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions, to report annually to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to certain payments and other transfers of value, to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members;. FDCA. The federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, which prohibits, among other things, the adulteration or misbranding of drugs, biologics and medical devices; and. Analogous State and Foreign Laws. Analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, and transparency laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements, and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers. In addition, some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures. State and foreign laws also govern the privacy and security of health information in some circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties, and our business generally, will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental laws and regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion of products from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, contractual damages, reputational harm, disgorgement, curtailment or restricting of our operations, any of which could substantially disrupt our operations and diminish our profits and future earnings. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business is found not to be in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under such laws, it is possible that some of our business activities, including our relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers, some of whom will recommend, purchase and/or prescribe our products, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws.. Current and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us and any future collaborators to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we, or they, may obtain.. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could, among other things, prevent or delay marketing approval of inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or our other product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability, or the ability of any future collaborators, to profitably sell any products for which we, or they, obtain marketing approval. We expect that current laws,. 50. as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we, or any future collaborators, may receive for any approved products.. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or collectively the PPACA. Among the provisions of the PPACA of potential importance to our business and our product candidates are the following:. •  an annual, non-deductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents;. •  an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;. •  a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected;. •  expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the civil False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;. •  a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. •  extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. •  expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs;. •  expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. •  new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals;. •  a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians;. •  a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research;. •  a new Independent Payment Advisory Board, or IPAB, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program to reduce expenditures by the program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs; and. •  establishment of the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. These changes include the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, led to aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year that started in 2013 and, due to subsequent legislation, will continue until 2025, and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the PPACA. Congress and the current presidential administration have expressed their intentions to repeal and replace the PPACA. President Trump issued at least one Executive Order and both chambers of Congress passed bills all with the goal of fulfilling these intentions. If full or partial repeal is enacted, many if not all of the provisions of the PPACA may no longer apply to prescription drugs. We cannot predict the full impact of the PPACA or future reform measures on our operations.  However, any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our products. The Budget Control Act of 2011, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, and a repeal or partial repeal and replacement of the PPACA may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding and otherwise affect the prices we may obtain for any of our product candidates for which regulatory approval is obtained.. 51. Legislative and regulatory proposals have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the United States Congress of the FDA's approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us and any future collaborators to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. If we are not able to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance, we may not be permitted to market our products and/or product candidates, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability.. Laws and regulations governing any international operations we may have in the future may preclude us from developing, manufacturing and selling certain products outside of the United States and require us to develop and implement costly compliance programs.. If we expand our operations outside of the United States, we must dedicate additional resources to comply with numerous laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we plan to operate. For instance, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any United States individual or business from paying, offering, authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with certain accounting provisions requiring maintenance of books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the company, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations.. Compliance with the FCPA is expensive and difficult, particularly in countries in which corruption is a recognized problem. In addition, the FCPA presents particular challenges in the pharmaceutical industry, because, in many countries, the government operates hospitals, and doctors and other hospital employees are considered foreign officials. Certain payments to hospitals in connection with clinical trials and other work have been deemed to be improper payments to government officials and have led to FCPA enforcement actions.. Various laws, regulations and executive orders also restrict the use and dissemination outside of the United States, or the sharing with certain non-U.S. nationals, of information classified for national security purposes, as well as certain products and technical data relating to those products. If we expand our presence outside of the United States, it will require us to dedicate additional resources to comply with these laws, and these laws may preclude us from developing, manufacturing, or selling certain products and product candidates outside of the United States, which could limit our growth potential and increase our development costs.. The failure to comply with laws governing international business practices may result in substantial civil and criminal penalties and suspension or debarment from government contracting. The Securities and Exchange Commission also may suspend or bar issuers from trading securities on U.S. exchanges for violations of the FCPA's accounting provisions.. If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could harm our business.. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures and the handling, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. From time to time and in the future, our operations may involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and biological materials, and may also produce hazardous waste products. Even if we contract with third parties for the disposal of these materials and waste products, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from the use or disposal of our hazardous materials, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We also could incur significant costs associated with civil or criminal fines and penalties for failure to comply with such laws and regulations.. We maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, but this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain insurance for any environmental liability or toxic tort claims that may be asserted against us.. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions.. 52. Our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants and vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could cause significant liability for us and harm our reputation.. We are exposed to the risk of fraud, misconduct or other illegal activity by our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, CROs, consultants and vendors may engage in fraudulent conduct or other illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct, including intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations or similar regulations of comparable foreign regulatory authorities, provide accurate information to the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities, comply with manufacturing standards we have established, comply with federal and state data privacy, security, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations and similar laws and regulations established and enforced by comparable foreign regulatory authorities, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, incentive programs and other business arrangements. Misconduct could also involve the improper use or misrepresentation of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, creating fraudulent data in our preclinical studies or clinical trials or illegal misappropriation of drug product, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by employees and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws, standards or regulations. Additionally, we are subject to the risk that a person or government agency could allege such fraud or other misconduct, even if none occurred. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we fail to comply with our obligations under our intellectual property licenses with third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. We are a party to a license agreement with BioHEP Technologies Ltd. (formerly known as Micrologix Biotech, Inc.), or BioHEP, under which we license certain patents and know-how to make, have made, use, sell, offer to sell and import certain product candidates, including inarigivir. We may enter into additional license agreements in the future. Our license agreement with BioHEP imposes, and we expect that future license agreements will impose, various diligence, milestone payment, royalty, insurance and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with our obligations under these licenses, our licensors may have the right to terminate these license agreements, in which event we might not be able to market any product that is covered by these agreements, which could materially adversely affect the value of the product candidate being developed under the license agreement. Termination of these license agreements may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms.. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights are inadequate for our technology and product candidates, our competitive position could be harmed.. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other intellectual property protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and product candidates. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, and confidentiality, licensing and other agreements with employees and third parties. We seek to protect our proprietary position by filing and prosecuting patent applications in the United States and abroad related to our novel technologies and product candidates that are important to our business.. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Although we enter into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to patentable aspects of our research and development, such as our employees, strategic partners, consultants, advisors and other third parties, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our confidential information before a patent application is filed, thereby jeopardizing our ability to seek patent protection.. We may license patent rights that are valuable to our business from third parties, in which event we may not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the patents, covering technology or medicines underlying such licenses. We cannot be certain that these patents and applications will be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. If any such licensor fails to maintain such patents, or lose rights to those patents, the rights we have licensed may be reduced or eliminated and our right to develop and commercialize any of our product candidates that are the subject of such licensed rights could be adversely affected. In addition to the foregoing, the risks associated with patent rights that we license from third parties also apply to patent rights we own.. 53. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally are highly uncertain, involve complex legal and factual questions and have in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patents, including those patent rights licensed to us by third parties, are highly uncertain. The steps we or our licensors have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights, both inside and outside the United States. Further, the examination process may require us or our licensors to narrow the claims for our pending patent applications, which may limit the scope of patent protection that may be obtained if these applications issue as patents. The rights already granted under any of our currently issued patents or those licensed to us and those that may be granted under future issued patents may not provide us with the proprietary protection or competitive advantages we are seeking. Changes in the patent laws, implementing regulations or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may also diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. If we or our licensors are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and product candidates, or if the scope of the patent protection obtained is not sufficient, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or superior to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and product candidates may be adversely affected.. With respect to patent rights, we do not know whether any of the pending patent applications for any of our compounds will result in the issuance of patents that protect our technology or products, or if any of our or our licensors' issued patents will effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing or in some cases not at all, until they are issued as a patent. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents or pending patent applications, or that we or our licensors were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions.. Our pending applications cannot be enforced against third parties practicing the technology claimed in such applications unless and until a patent issues from such applications. Because the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, issued patents that we own or have licensed from third parties may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in the loss of patent protection, the narrowing of claims in such patents or the invalidity or unenforceability of such patents, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection for our technology and products. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our or our licensors' patented technology, trademarks and other intellectual property rights is expensive, difficult and in some cases may not be possible. In some cases, it may be difficult or impossible to detect third-party infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, even in relation to issued patent claims, and proving any such infringement may be even more difficult.. If third parties initiate legal proceedings against us alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, such litigation could be costly and time consuming and could prevent or delay us from developing or commercializing our product candidates.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and any other product candidates and to use our related proprietary technologies, without infringing the intellectual property and other proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, and interferences, post-grant review, inter partes review, and reexamination proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and corresponding foreign patent offices. As a result, we may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 or any other product candidates, including interference or derivation proceedings before the USPTO. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have produced a significant number of patents, and it may not always be clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods of use. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform.. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods of treatment related to the use or manufacture of our product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of any of our product candidates, any molecules formed during the manufacturing process or any final product itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such product unless we obtained a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire. Similarly, if any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations, processes for manufacture or. 54. methods of use, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidate.. If we were sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our product candidates, products or methods either do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to do this. Proving invalidity is difficult. For example, in the United States, proving invalidity requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. If we are found to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Under certain circumstances, we could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the applicable product candidate. In addition, in any such proceeding or litigation, we could be found liable for monetary damages. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing the applicable product candidate or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business.. Defense of claims of infringement, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees for willful infringement, pay royalties, redesign our infringing products or obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. Parties making claims against us may also obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could materially harm our business.. Most of our competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater resources and may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation longer than we could. The uncertainties associated with litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our research and development, in-license needed technology, or enter into strategic partnerships.. Any claims by third parties that we have misappropriated their confidential information or trade secrets could have a similar negative impact on our business. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs and the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel could be diverted in pursuing these proceedings, which could significantly harm our business and operating results. In addition, we may not have sufficient resources to bring these actions to a successful conclusion.. While inarigivir and SB 11285 are being observed in preclinical studies and/or clinical trials, we believe that the use of inarigivir and SB 11285 in these preclinical studies and/or clinical trials falls within the scope of the exemptions provided by 35 U.S.C. Section 271(e) in the United States, which exempts from patent infringement liability activities reasonably related to the development and submission of information to the FDA. If these product candidates progress toward commercialization, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us increases. We attempt to ensure that the methods we employ to manufacture inarigivir and SB 11285, as well as the methods for their use that we intend to promote, do not infringe other parties' patents and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance they do not, however, and competitors or other parties may assert that we infringe their proprietary rights in any event.. In addition, we plan to evaluate inarigivir and SB 11285 in combination with other product candidates and approved products that are covered by patents held by other companies or institutions.  In the event that a labeling instruction is required in product packaging recommending that combination, we could be accused of, or held liable for, infringement of the third-party patents covering the product candidate or product recommended for administration with inarigivir or SB 11285. In such a case, we could be required to obtain a license from the other company or institution to use the required or desired package labeling, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and any other product candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our or our licensors' intellectual property rights in some countries outside the United States can be less extensive than those in the United States. In addition, the laws and practices of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as federal and state laws in the United States. Consequently, we and our licensors may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our and our licensors' inventions in all countries outside the United States, or from selling or importing products made using our and our licensors' inventions in or into the United States or other jurisdictions. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products, and may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we or our licensors have patent protection, but where enforcement is not as strong as in the United States. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued patents and our patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. 55. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our or our licensor's patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally in those countries. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our and our licensors' patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our and our licensors' patent applications at risk of not issuing and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us or our licensors. We or our licensors may not prevail in any lawsuits that we or our licensors initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful.. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and these foreign laws may also be subject to change. For example, methods of treatment and manufacturing processes may not be patentable in certain jurisdictions, and the requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. Furthermore, generic drug manufacturers or other competitors may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of our or our licensors' patents, requiring us or our licensors to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings. Generic drug manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch generic versions of our products. Many countries, including European Union countries, India, Japan and China, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled under certain circumstances to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, we and our licensors may have limited remedies if patents are infringed or if we or our licensors are compelled to grant a license to a third party, which could materially diminish the value of those patents. This could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Accordingly, our and our licensors' efforts to enforce intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we own or license.. A number of foreign countries have stated that they are willing to issue compulsory licenses to patents held by innovator companies on approved drugs to allow the government or one or more third-party companies to sell the approved drug without the permission of the innovator patentee where the foreign government concludes it is in the public interest. India, for example, has used such a procedure to allow domestic companies to make and sell patented drugs without innovator approval. There is no guarantee that patents covering any of our drugs will not be subject to a compulsory license in a foreign country, or that we will have any influence over if or how such a compulsory license is granted. Further, Brazil allows its regulatory agency, ANVISA, to participate in deciding whether to grant a drug patent in Brazil, and patent grant decisions are made based on several factors, including whether the patent meets the requirements for a patent and whether such a patent is deemed in the country's interest. In addition, several other countries have created laws that make it more difficult to enforce drug patents than patents on other kinds of technologies. Further, under the treaty on the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property, or TRIPS, as interpreted by the Doha Declaration, countries in which drugs are manufactured are required to allow exportation of the drug to a developing country that lacks adequate manufacturing capability. Therefore, our drug markets in the United States or foreign countries may be affected by the influence of current public policy on patent issuance, enforcement or involuntary licensing in the healthcare area.. In November 2015, members of the World Trade Organization, or the WTO, which administers TRIPS, voted to extend the exemption against enforcing pharmaceutical drug patents in least developed countries until 2033. We currently have no patent applications filed in least developed countries, and our current intent is not to file in these countries in the future, at least in part due to this WTO pharmaceutical patent exemption.. The terms of our patents may be inadequate to protect our competitive position on our products for an adequate amount of time.. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, such as inarigivir, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. For instance, certain patents for inarigivir begin to expire in December 2026, without considering any potential patent term extensions. We expect to seek extensions of patent terms in the United States and, if available, in other countries where we are prosecuting patents. In the United States, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 permits a patent term extension of up to five years beyond the normal expiration of the patent, which is limited to the approved indication (or any additional indications approved during the period of extension). However, the applicable authorities, including the FDA and the USPTO in the United States, and any equivalent regulatory authority in other countries, may not agree with our assessment of whether such extensions are available, and may refuse to grant extensions to our patents, or may grant more limited extensions than we request. If this occurs, our competitors may be able to take advantage of our investment in development and clinical trials by referencing our clinical and preclinical data and launch their product earlier than might otherwise be the case.. 56. Changes in patent law, including recent patent reform legislation, could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. As is the case with other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries involves technological and legal complexity, and is costly, time-consuming, and inherently uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. For example, the United States Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our and our licensors' ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our and our licensors' ability to obtain new patents or to enforce existing patents and patents we and our licensors may obtain in the future. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our and our licensors' patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our or our licensors' issued patents and those licensed to us.. In September 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. In particular, under the Leahy-Smith Act, the United States transitioned in March 2013 to a \"first to file\" system in which the first inventor to file a patent application will be entitled to the patent. We may be subject to a third party preissuance submission of prior art to the USPTO or become involved in opposition, derivation, revocation, reexamination, post-grant and inter partes review or interference proceedings challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. As a result, our intellectual property may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize medicines without infringing third-party patent rights.. The USPTO continues to develop regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, did not become effective until March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents.. The U.S. Supreme Court has issued opinions in patent cases in the last few years that many consider may weaken patent protection in the United States, either by narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances, holding that certain kinds of innovations are not patentable or generally otherwise making it easier to invalidate patents in court. Additionally, there have been recent proposals for additional changes to the patent laws of the United States and other countries that, if adopted, could impact our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary technology or our ability to enforce our proprietary technology. Depending on future actions by the U.S. Congress, the U.S. courts, the USPTO and the relevant law-making bodies in other countries, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submissions, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitive position would be adversely affected.. 57. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and proprietary information concerning our business strategy in order to protect our competitive position with respect to our technology and product candidates. Trade secrets are difficult to protect, and it is possible that our trade secrets and know-how will over time be disseminated within the industry through independent development and intentional or inadvertent disclosures.. We seek to protect our trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, strategic partners, consultants, advisors and other third parties. We also enter into confidentiality and invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and consultants. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and intentionally or inadvertently disclose or use our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches.. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets or the equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, our competitive position would be harmed. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary technology and other confidential information, then our ability to obtain patent protection or to protect our trade secret information may be jeopardized.. Our reliance on third parties and agreements with collaboration partners requires us to share our trade secrets, which increases the possibility that a competitor may discover them or that our trade secrets will be misappropriated or disclosed.. Our reliance on third parties to develop and manufacture our product candidates is based upon agreements that limit the rights of the third parties to use or disclose our confidential information, including our trade secrets and know-how. Despite these contractual provisions, the need to share trade secrets and other confidential information increases the risk that such trade secrets and information are disclosed or used, even if unintentionally, in violation of these agreements. In the highly competitive markets in which our product candidates are expected to compete, protecting our trade secrets, including our strategies for addressing competing products, is imperative, and any unauthorized use or disclosure could impair our competitive position and may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. In addition, certain of our collaboration partners are larger, more complex organizations than ours, and the risk of inadvertent disclosure of our proprietary information may be increased despite their internal procedures and contractual obligations in place with our collaboration partner. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information, a competitor's discovery of such trade secrets and information could impair our competitive position and have an adverse impact on our business.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property or in which third parties assert that our licensors, employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property. We may also be involved in lawsuits in which third parties assert their ownership of intellectual property that we regard as our intellectual property. These lawsuits could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful from our perspective and have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, many of our employees, including our senior management, and our licensors' employees, were previously employed at universities or at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Some of these employees, including each member of our senior management, executed proprietary rights, non-disclosure and non-competition agreements, or similar agreements, in connection with such previous employment. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such third party.. We may also be subject to claims that former employees, collaborators or other third parties have an ownership interest in our patents or other intellectual property rights. We may also have, in the future, ownership disputes arising, for example, from conflicting obligations of consultants or others who are involved in developing our product candidates. In addition, competitors or other third parties may infringe our patents or misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property rights.. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of our own intellectual property rights or the proprietary rights of others. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights, in addition to counterclaims asserting that our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable, or both. Our efforts in any litigation may fail. 58. and, even if our efforts in a litigation are successful, may result in substantial costs and require extensive attention from our management and other employees, which could harm our business and financial results.. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property, and we may not be able to successfully defend ourselves in similar claims made against us. In any infringement proceeding, a court may decide that intellectual property owned by or licensed to us is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue because our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights licensed to us do not cover the technology in question.. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be further harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of shares of our common stock.. Because inarigivir, SB 11285, SB 9225 and any other product candidates we may develop are small molecules, after commercialization they will be subject to the patent litigation process of the Hatch-Waxman Act, which allows a generic company to submit an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, to the FDA to obtain approval to sell our drug using bioequivalence data only. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, since our candidates will be considered new chemical entities, we will have the opportunity to list all of our patents that cover our drug product or its method of use in the FDA's compendium of \"Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluation,\" sometimes referred to as the FDA's Orange Book. A generic company can submit an ANDA to the FDA four years after our drug approval. The submission of the ANDA by a generic company is considered a technical act of patent infringement. The generic company can certify that it will wait until the natural expiration date of our listed patents to sell a generic version of our product or can certify that one or more of our listed patents are invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. If the latter, we will have 45 days to bring a patent infringement lawsuit against the generic company. This will initiate a challenge to one or more of our Orange Book-listed patents based on arguments from the generic company that either our patent is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, if a lawsuit is brought, the FDA is prevented from issuing a final approval on the generic drug until the earlier of seven-and-a-half years from our drug approval or a final decision of a court holding that our asserted patent claims are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. If we do not properly list our relevant patents in the Orange Book, timely file a lawsuit in response to a certification from a generic company under an ANDA or prevail in the resulting patent litigation, we can lose our proprietary market, which can rapidly become generic. Further, even if we do correctly list our relevant patents in the Orange Book, bring a lawsuit in a timely manner and prevail in that lawsuit, it may be at a very significant cost to us of attorneys' fees and employee time and distraction over a long period. Further, it is common for more than one generic company to try to sell an innovator drug at the same time, so we may be faced with the cost and distraction of multiple lawsuits. We may also determine it is necessary to settle the lawsuit in a manner that allows the generic company to enter our market prior to the expiration of our patent or otherwise in a manner that adversely affects the strength, validity or enforceability of our patent.. A number of pharmaceutical companies have been the subject of intense review by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, or a corresponding agency in another country based on how they have conducted or settled drug patent litigation, and certain reviews have led to an allegation of an antitrust violation, sometimes resulting in a fine or loss of rights. We cannot be sure that we would not also be subject to such a review or that the result of the review would be favorable to us, which could result in a fine or penalty.. The FTC has brought a number of lawsuits in federal court in the past few years to challenge Hatch- Waxman ANDA litigation settlements between innovator companies and generic companies as anti-competitive. The FTC has taken an aggressive position that anything of value is a payment, whether money is paid or not. Under their approach, if an innovator as part of a patent settlement agrees not to launch or delay launch of an authorized generic during the 180-day period granted to the first generic company to challenge an Orange Book- listed patent covering an innovator drug, or negotiates a delay in entry without payment, the FTC may consider it an unacceptable reverse payment. The biopharmaceutical industry argues that such agreements are rational business decisions to dismiss risk and are immune from antitrust attack if the terms of the settlement are within the scope of the exclusionary potential of the patent. In 2013, the U.S. Supreme Court, in a five-to-three decision in FTC v. Actavis, Inc., rejected both the biopharmaceutical industry's and FTC's arguments with regard to so-called reverse payments, and held that whether a \"reverse payment\" settlement involving the exchange of consideration for a delay in entry is subject to an anticompetitive analysis depends on five considerations: (a) the potential for genuine adverse effects on competition; (b) the justification of payment; (c) the patentee's ability to bring about anticompetitive harm; (d) whether the size of the payment is a workable surrogate for the patent's weakness; and (e) that antitrust liability for large unjustified payments does not prevent litigating parties from settling their lawsuits, for example, by allowing the generic to enter the market before the patent expires without the patentee's paying the generic. Furthermore, whether a reverse payment is justified depends upon its size, its scale in relation to the patentee's anticipated future litigation costs, its independence from other services for which it might represent payment, as was the case in Actavis, and the lack of any other convincing justification. The Court held that reverse payment settlements can potentially violate antitrust laws and are subject to the standard antitrust rule-of-reason analysis, with the burden of proving that an agreement is unlawful on the FTC and leaving to lower. 59. courts the structuring of such rule of reason analysis. If we are faced with drug patent litigation, including Hatch-Waxman litigation with a generic company, we could be faced with such an FTC challenge based on that activity, including how or whether we settle the case, and even if we strongly disagree with the FTC's position, we could face a significant expense or penalty.. Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth. We will need to grow the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 21 full-time employees, 10 of whom hold Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we will need additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Our management, personnel and systems currently in place are likely not adequate to support this future growth. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including:. •  managing our clinical trials effectively;. •  identifying, recruiting, maintaining, motivating and integrating additional employees;. •  managing our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors and other third parties;. •  improving our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; and. •  expanding our facilities.. Our management may need to devote a disproportionate amount of its attention to managing these growth activities. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or identify, recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Our inability to manage the expansion of our operations effectively may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. Our expected growth could also require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of additional product candidates. If we are unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate revenues could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy, including the successful commercialization of our product candidates.. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our executive officers and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent upon our executive officers. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers. These employment agreements do not prevent such persons from terminating their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance for any of our executives or other employees. The loss of the services of any of these persons could impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives.. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific and medical personnel. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. If we lose one or more of our executive officers or other key employees, our ability to implement our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Furthermore, replacing executive officers or other key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain marketing approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key employees on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions.. We rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by other entities and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with those entities that may limit their availability to us. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates will be limited.. 60. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The trading market in our common stock has been limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on The Nasdaq Capital Market.. Since our initial listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market on May 6, 2016, the trading market in our common stock has been extremely limited and substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on The Nasdaq Capital Market. The quotation of our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists. We cannot predict whether a more active market for our common stock will develop in the future. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect your ability to sell our common stock at current market prices in short time periods, or possibly at all. Additionally, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock even if our business is doing well.  Ultimately, market visibility for our common stock may be limited and such lack of visibility may have a depressive effect on the market price for our common stock.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders.. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Because of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the price at which you purchased your shares. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:. •  results of clinical trials of our product candidates or those of our competitors;. •  the success of competitive products or technologies;. •  developments related to any future collaborations;. •  regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;. •  development of new product candidates that may address our markets and may make our product candidates less attractive;. •  changes in physician, hospital or healthcare provider practices that may make our product candidates less useful;. •  announcements by us, our partners or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, collaborations or capital commitments;. •  developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;. •  the recruitment or departure of key personnel;. •  the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs;. •  failure to meet or exceed financial estimates and projections of the investment community or that we provide to the public;. •  the results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license additional product candidates or products;. •  actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;. •  variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;. •  changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;. •  market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;. •  general economic, industry and market conditions; and. •  the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. 61. Our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, if they choose to act together, may have the ability to significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned shares representing approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock.  As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they may be able to significantly influence matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these persons, if they choose to act together, may be able to significantly influence the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership control may:. •  delay, defer or prevent a change in control;. •  entrench our management and the board of directors; or. •  impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us that other stockholders may desire.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering. However, if certain events occur prior to the end of such five-year period, including if we become a \"large accelerated filer,\" our annual gross revenues exceed $1.0 billion or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt in any three-year period, we will cease to be an emerging growth company prior to the end of such five-year period. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:. •  being permitted to provide only two years of audited financial statements, in addition to any required unaudited interim financial statements, with correspondingly reduced \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" disclosure;. •  not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;. •  not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. •  reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. •  exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We have taken advantage of these reduced reporting burdens. In particular, in connection with our recent offerings, we have provided only two years of audited financial statements and we have not included all of the executive compensation related information that would be required if we were not an emerging growth company. We expect to continue to take advantage of some or all of the reporting exemptions available to emerging growth companies. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be reduced or more volatile. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of these accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. 62. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, and particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the exchange or market upon which we trade and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, which in turn could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors.. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as regulatory and governing bodies provide new guidance. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. However, while we remain an emerging growth company, we are not required to include an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting issued by our independent registered public accounting firm. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we are engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the listing standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market, the exchange on which our common stock is listed. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that the information that we are required to disclose in the reports that we will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission is properly recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. We are also continuing to improve our internal control over financial reporting. We have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop in the future may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. Further, weaknesses in our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could also adversely affect the results of management reports and independent registered public accounting firm audits of our internal control over financial reporting that we will be required to include in our periodic reports that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we were to have ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, our investors could lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by securities and industry. 63. analysts. If no or few securities or industry analysts commence coverage of us, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, our intellectual property or our stock performance, or if our preclinical studies or clinical trials and operating results fail to meet the expectations of analysts, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions include those establishing:. •  a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. •  no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. •  the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from filling vacancies on our board of directors;. •  the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. •  the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval;. •  the required approval of the holders of at least a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors;. •  a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. •  the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the board of directors, the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or stockholders holding a majority of our issued and outstanding common stock, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and. •  advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Furthermore, our amended and restated bylaws specify that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for most legal actions involving actions brought against us by stockholders. We believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law by chancellors particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums. 64. and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. However, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies' certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action.. Our ability to use our net operating loss and credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. At December 31, 2017, we had potentially utilizable federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $61.6 million, all of which expire between 2029 and 2036. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss and credit carryforwards is dependent upon our ability to generate taxable income in future periods and may be limited due to restrictions imposed on utilization of net operating loss and credit carryforwards under federal and state laws upon a change in ownership.. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change,\" is subject to limitations on its ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income or taxes. For these purposes, an ownership change generally occurs where the equity ownership of one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who owns at least 5% of a corporation's stock increases its ownership by more than 50 percentage points over its lowest ownership percentage within a three-year period (calculated on a rolling basis). We have not conducted a Section 382 study to determine whether we have undergone an ownership change, but we will do so before any tax attributes are utilized. We may have experienced such ownership changes in the past, and we may experience ownership changes in the future, some of which are outside the Company's control. These ownership changes may subject our existing net operating losses or credits to substantial limitations under Sections 382 and 383. Accordingly, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of our net operating losses or credits. Limitations on our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset U.S. federal taxable income could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. In addition, at the state level, there may be periods during which the use of net operating losses is suspended or otherwise limited, which could accelerate or permanently increase state taxes owed.. Because U.S. federal net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018 generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation may effectively provide a cap on the cumulative amount of pre-ownership change losses, including certain recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Such pre-ownership change losses in excess of the cap may be lost. In addition, if an ownership change were to occur, it is possible that the limitations imposed on our ability to use pre-ownership change losses and certain recognized built-in losses could cause a net increase in our U.S. federal income tax liability and require U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect. Further, if for financial reporting purposes the amount or value of these deferred tax assets is reduced, such reduction would have a negative impact on the book value of our common stock.. Net operating losses, if any, arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 may be subject to limitation under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code as discussed above, but will be subject to the further limitation, adopted by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that in any year such NOL may offset no more than 80 percent of such year's taxable income (computed without regard to any deduction for net operating loss carryover).  As a result of limiting the deduction for post-2017 NOLs to no more than 80% of current year taxable income, we may be required to pay federal income tax in some future year notwithstanding that we have a net loss for all years in the aggregate.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. We could be subject to securities class action litigation.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could harm our business.. 65"
