[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. (All currency and share amounts are in millions). You should consider the risks described below and elsewhere in our documents filed with the SEC before investing in any of our securities. We may amend, supplement or add to the risk factors described below from time to time in future reports filed with the SEC.. Many of the markets in which we operate are cyclical or are subject to industry events, and our results have been and could be affected as a result.. Many of the markets in which we operate are subject to general economic cycles or industry events. In addition, certain of our businesses are subject to market-specific cycles and weather-related fluctuations, including, but not limited to:. •HVAC; and. •Power transmission and distribution products.. In addition, contract timing on large projects, including those relating to power transmission and distribution systems, communications technology, fare collection systems, process cooling systems and towers, and power generation equipment may cause significant fluctuations in revenues and profits from period to period.. The businesses of many of our customers, particularly general industrial and power and energy companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced, and may continue to experience, periodic downturns. Cyclical changes and specific industry events could also affect sales of products in our other businesses. Downturns in the business cycles of our different operations may occur at the same time, which could exacerbate any adverse effects on our business. In addition, certain of our businesses have seasonal and weather-related fluctuations. Historically, many of our key businesses generally have tended to have stronger performance in the second half of the year. See \"MD&A - Results of Continuing Operations and Results Reportable Segments.\". Our business depends on capital investment and maintenance expenditures by our customers.. Demand for most of our products and services depends on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. The level of capital expenditures by our customers fluctuates based on planned expansions, new builds and repairs, commodity prices, general economic conditions, availability of credit, and expectations of future market behavior. Any of these factors, whether individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The price and availability of raw materials may adversely affect our business.. We are exposed to a variety of risks relating to the price and availability of raw materials. In recent years, we have faced volatility in the prices of many key raw materials, including copper, steel and oil. Increases in the prices of raw materials or shortages or allocations of materials may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, as we may not be able to pass cost increases on to our customers, or our sales may be reduced. We are subject to, or may enter into, long-term supplier contracts that may increase our exposure to pricing fluctuations.. Our customers could be impacted by commodity availability and prices.. A number of factors outside our control, including fluctuating commodity prices, impact the demand for our products. Increased commodity prices may increase our customers' cost of doing business, thus causing them to delay or cancel large capital projects.. On the other hand, declining commodity prices may cause our customers to delay or cancel projects relating to the production of such commodities. For example, declines in oil prices have led to reduced demand for certain of our power generation products. In addition, in regions where the economy is largely dependent on oil and gas, declines in oil and gas prices have impacted the ability of our customers in these regions to finance capital expenditures. As a result, certain of our customers in these regions have delayed or cancelled tenders for our spectrum monitoring and related products. Reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing. 6. orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. Reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in the relevant market.. Credit and counterparty risks could harm our business.. The financial condition of our customers and distributors could affect our ability to market our products or collect receivables. In addition, financial difficulties faced by our customers may lead to cancellations or delays of orders.. Our customers may suffer financial difficulties that make them unable to pay for a project when completed, or they may decide not or be unable to pay us, either as a matter of corporate decision-making or in response to changes in local laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that expenses or losses for uncollectible amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows.. We operate in highly competitive markets. Our failure to compete effectively could harm our business.. We sell our products in highly competitive markets, which could result in pressure on our profit margins and limit our ability to maintain or increase the market share of our products. We compete on a number of fronts, including on the basis of product offerings, technical capabilities, quality, service and pricing. We have a number of competitors with substantial technological and financial resources, brand recognition and established relationships with global service providers. Some of our competitors have lower cost structures, support from local governments, or both. In addition, new competitors may enter the markets in which we participate. Competitors may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or a more attractive mix of products or services, or services or other incentives that we cannot or will not match. These competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new or emerging technologies and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns and make more attractive offers to potential customers, employees and strategic partners. In addition, competitive environments in slow-growth markets, to which some of our businesses have exposure, have been inherently more influenced by pricing and domestic and global economic conditions. To remain competitive, we need to invest in manufacturing, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. No assurances can be made that we will have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. If we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. The fact that we outsource various elements of the products and services we sell subjects us to the business risks of our suppliers and subcontractors, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations.. In areas where we depend on third-party suppliers and subcontractors for outsourced products, components or services, we are subject to the risk of customer dissatisfaction with the quality or performance of the products or services we sell due to supplier or subcontractor failure. In addition, business difficulties experienced by a third-party supplier or subcontractor can lead to the interruption of our ability to obtain outsourced products or services and ultimately our inability to supply products or services to our customers. Third-party supplier and subcontractor business interruptions can include, but are not limited to, work stoppages, union negotiations and other labor disputes. Current economic conditions could also impact the ability of suppliers and subcontractors to access credit and, thus, impair their ability to provide us quality products or services in a timely manner, or at all.. Cost overruns, inflation, delays and other risks could significantly impact our results, particularly with respect to long-term fixed-price contracts.. A portion of our revenues and earnings is generated through fixed-price contracts, particularly within our Engineered Solutions reportable segment. We recognize revenues for certain of these contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting whereby revenues and expenses, and thereby profit, in a given period are determined based on our estimates as to the project status and the costs remaining to complete a particular project.. Estimates of total revenues and cost at completion are subject to many variables, including the length of time to complete a contract. In addition, contract delays may negatively impact these estimates and our revenues and earnings results for affected periods.. To the extent that we underestimate the remaining cost to complete a project, we may overstate the revenues and profit in a particular period. Further, certain of these contracts provide for penalties or liquidated damages for failure to timely perform our obligations under the contract, or require that we, at our expense, correct and remedy to the satisfaction of the other party certain defects. Because some of our long-term contracts are at a fixed price, we. 7. face the risk that cost overruns or inflation may exceed, erode or eliminate our expected profit margin, or cause us to record a loss on our projects.. Our large power projects in South Africa are an example of these types of long-term-contract-related risks. The business environment surrounding our large power projects in South Africa remains difficult, as we have experienced, cost over-runs, and various other challenges associated with a complex set of contractual relationships among the end customer, prime contractors, various subcontractors (including us and our subcontractors), and various suppliers.  We are currently involved in a number of claim disputes relating to these challenges.  We are pursuing various commercial alternatives for addressing these challenges, in attempt to mitigate our overall financial exposure.. Although we believe that our current estimates of revenues and costs relating to our long-term contracts are reasonable, it is possible that future revisions of such estimates could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.. Worldwide economic conditions could negatively impact our businesses.. Many of our customers historically have tended to delay large capital projects, including expensive maintenance and upgrades, during economic downturns. Poor macroeconomic conditions could negatively impact our businesses by adversely affecting, among other things, our:. • Revenues;. • Margins;. • Profits;. • Cash flows;. • Customers' orders, including order cancellation activity or delays on existing orders;. • Customers' ability to access credit;. • Customers' ability to pay amounts due to us; and. • Suppliers' and distributors' ability to perform and the availability and costs of materials and subcontracted services.. Downturns in global economies could negatively impact our performance or any expectations in reporting performance. For example, economic downturns relating to lower oil and gas prices have impacted the ability of customers in countries with oil and gas dependent economies to finance certain capital projects. This, in turn, has reduced demand for certain of our spectrum monitoring and related products in these regions.. Failure to protect or unauthorized use of our intellectual property may harm our business.. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology or knowledge, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the United States. Costs incurred to defend our rights may be material.. If we are unable to protect our information systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted.. We are increasingly dependent on cloud-based and other information technology (\"IT\") networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. We depend on such IT infrastructure for electronic communications among our locations around the world and between our personnel and suppliers and customers. In addition, we rely on these IT systems to record, process, summarize, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities, including, among other things, our accounting and financial reporting processes; our manufacturing and supply chain processes; our sales and marketing efforts; and the data related to our research and development efforts. The failure of our IT systems or those of our business partners or third-party service providers to perform properly, or difficulties encountered in the development of new systems or the upgrade of existing systems, could disrupt our business and harm our reputation, which may result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess or obsolete inventory, and product shortages, causing our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results to suffer. Upon expiration or termination of any of our agreements with third-party vendors, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us, and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete.. 8. Information technology security threats are increasing in frequency and sophistication. Cyber-attacks may be random, coordinated, or targeted, including sophisticated computer crime threats. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and those of our business partners and third-party service providers, and to the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. Despite our implementation of security measures, cybersecurity threats, such as malicious software, phishing attacks, computer viruses, and attempts to gain unauthorized access, cannot be completely mitigated. Our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or otherwise, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; the performance or security of our cloud-based product offerings is impacted; our intranet and internet sites are compromised; data is manipulated or destroyed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we must dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs.. Currency conversion risk could have a material impact on our reported results of business operations.. Our operating results are presented in U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies in which we conduct business could result in unfavorable translation effects as the results of transactions in foreign countries are translated into U.S. dollars.. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, including countries utilizing the Euro, which may have a material adverse effect on sales or require us to lower our prices, and also decrease our reported revenues or margins related to sales conducted in foreign currencies to the extent we are unable or determine not to increase local currency prices. Likewise, decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on the cost of materials and products purchased overseas.. Similarly, increased or decreased strength of the currencies of non-U.S. countries in which we manufacture will have a comparable effect against the currencies of other jurisdictions in which we sell. For example, our Radiodetection business manufactures a number of detection instruments in the United Kingdom and sells to customers in other countries, therefore increased strength of the British pound sterling will increase the effective price of these products sold in British pound sterling into other countries; and decreased strength of British pound sterling could have a material adverse effect on the cost of materials and products purchased outside of the United Kingdom.. We are subject to laws, regulations and potential liability relating to claims, complaints and proceedings, including those relating to environmental, product liability and other matters.. We are subject to various laws, ordinances, regulations and other requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations. With respect to acquisitions, divestitures and continuing operations, we may acquire or retain liabilities of which we are not aware, or which are of a different character or magnitude than expected. Additionally, changes in laws, ordinances, regulations, or other governmental policies may significantly increase our expenses and liabilities.. We face environmental exposures including, for example, those relating to discharges from and materials handled as part of our operations, the remediation of soil and groundwater contaminated by petroleum products or hazardous substances or wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. We may be liable for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or petroleum products on, under, or in our current or formerly owned or leased properties, or from third-party disposal facilities that we may have used, without regard to whether we knew of, or caused, the presence of the contaminants. The presence of, or failure to properly remediate, these substances may have adverse effects, including, for example, substantial investigative or remedial obligations and limitations on the ability to sell or rent affected property or to borrow funds using affected property as collateral. New or existing environmental matters or changes in environmental laws or policies could lead to material costs for environmental compliance or cleanup. In addition, environmentally related product regulations are growing globally in number and complexity and could contribute to increased costs with respect to disclosure requirements, product sales and distribution related costs, and post-sale recycling and disposal costs. There can be no assurance that these liabilities and costs will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Numerous claims, complaints, and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business have been asserted or are pending against us or certain of our subsidiaries (collectively, \"claims\"). These claims relate to litigation matters (e.g., class actions and contracts, intellectual property, and competitive claims), environmental matters, product liability matters (predominately associated with alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials), and other risk management matters (e.g., general liability, automobile, and workers' compensation claims). Periodically, claims,. 9. complaints and proceedings arising other than in the ordinary course of business have been asserted or are pending against us or certain of our subsidiaries (e.g. patent infringement and disputes with subsidiary shareholder(s)).  From time to time, we face actions by governmental authorities, both in and outside the United States. Additionally, we may become subject to other claims of which we are currently unaware, which may be significant, or the claims of which we are aware may result in our incurring significantly greater loss than we anticipate. Our insurance may be insufficient or unavailable (e.g., because of insurer insolvency) to protect us against potential loss exposures.. We devote significant time and expense to defend against the various claims, complaints, and proceedings brought against us, and we cannot assure you that the expenses or distractions from operating our businesses arising from these defenses will not increase materially.. We cannot assure you that our accruals and right to indemnity and insurance will be sufficient, that recoveries from insurance or indemnification claims will be available or that any of our current or future claims or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. See \"MD&A - Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates - Contingent Liabilities\" and Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.. Our failure to successfully complete acquisitions could negatively affect us.. We may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions, which could materially impact our growth rate, results of operations, future cash flows and stock price. Our ability to achieve our goals depends upon, among other things, our ability to identify and successfully acquire companies, businesses and product lines, to effectively integrate them and to achieve cost savings. We may also be unable to raise additional funds necessary to consummate these acquisitions. In addition, decreases in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to consummate acquisitions. Competition for acquisitions in our business areas may be significant and result in higher prices for businesses, including businesses that we may target, which may also affect our acquisition rate or benefits achieved from our acquisitions.. We may not achieve the expected cost savings and other benefits of our acquisitions.. We strive for and expect to achieve cost savings in connection with our acquisitions, including: (i) manufacturing process and supply chain rationalization, (ii) streamlining redundant administrative overhead and support activities, and (iii) restructuring and repositioning sales and marketing organizations to eliminate redundancies. Cost savings expectations are estimates that are inherently difficult to predict and are necessarily speculative in nature, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve expected, or any, cost savings in connection with an acquisition. In addition, we cannot assure you that unforeseen factors will not offset the estimated cost savings or other benefits from our acquisitions. As a result, anticipated benefits could be delayed, differ significantly from our estimates and the other information contained in this report, or not be realized.. Our failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have a negative effect on our operations; our acquisitions could cause financial difficulties.. Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including:. • Adverse effects on our reported operating results due to charges to earnings, including impairment charges associated with goodwill and other intangibles;. • Diversion of management attention from core business operations;. • Integration of technology, operations, personnel and financial and other systems;. • Increased expenses;. • Increased foreign operations, often with unique issues relating to corporate culture, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and other challenges;. • Assumption of known and unknown liabilities and exposure to litigation;. • Increased levels of debt or dilution to existing stockholders; and. • Potential disputes with the sellers of acquired businesses, technology, services or products.. In addition, internal controls over financial reporting of acquired companies may not be compliant with required standards. Issues may exist that could rise to the level of significant deficiencies or, in some cases, material weaknesses, particularly with respect to foreign companies or non-public U.S. companies.. 10. Our integration activities may place substantial demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or product could also have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business.. Dispositions or liabilities retained in connection with dispositions could negatively affect us.. Our dispositions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from running our core businesses, increased expense associated with the dispositions, potential disputes with the customers or suppliers of the disposed businesses, potential disputes with the acquirers of the disposed businesses and a potential dilutive effect on our earnings per share. In addition, we have agreed to retain certain liabilities in connection with the disposition of certain businesses, including the Balcke Dürr business. These liabilities may be significant and could negatively impact our business.. If dispositions are not completed in a timely manner, there may be a negative effect on our cash flows and/or our ability to execute our strategy. In addition, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of our dispositions. See \"Business,\" \"MD&A - Results of Discontinued Operations,\" and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for the status of our divestitures.. Governmental laws and regulations could negatively affect our business.. Changes in laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject could have a significant negative impact on our business. In addition, we could face material costs and risks if it is determined that we have failed to comply with relevant law and regulation. We are subject to U.S. Customs and Export Regulations, including U.S. International Traffic and Arms Regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business; the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business; and the California Transparency in Supply Chain Act and similar laws and regulations, which relate to human trafficking and anti-slavery and impose new compliance requirements on our businesses and their suppliers. While our policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product or other of our activities, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in tax laws and regulations or other factors could cause our income tax obligations to increase, potentially reducing our net income and adversely affecting our cash flows.. We are subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world. In preparing our financial statements, we provide for income taxes based on current tax laws and regulations and the estimated taxable income within each of these jurisdictions. Our income tax obligations, however, may be higher due to numerous factors, including changes in tax laws or regulations and the outcome of audits and examinations of our tax returns.. Officials in some of the jurisdictions in which we do business have proposed, or announced that they are reviewing, tax changes that could potentially increase taxes, and other revenue-raising laws and regulations, including those that may be enacted as a result of the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project. Any such changes in tax laws or regulations could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on existing practices as well as reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") was enacted which significantly changes United States (\"U.S.\") income tax law for businesses and individuals. The Act introduces changes that impact U.S. corporate tax rates (e.g., a reduction in the top tax rate from 35% to 21%), business-related exclusions, and deductions and credits. The Act also will have tax consequences for many entities that operate internationally, including the timing and the amount of tax to be paid on undistributed foreign earnings. We have recorded provisional amounts in our 2017 consolidated financial statements to reflect the impact of the Act, as we have yet to complete our analysis of the impact (see Notes 1 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details). The results of our analysis, which we will complete in 2018, could have a material impact on our 2018 financial position and results of operations.  In addition, certain aspects of the Act are unclear and, thus, we anticipate subsequent regulations and interpretations to be issued that will provide additional guidance around application of the Act. The additional guidance could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. 11. There is a risk that we could be challenged by tax authorities on certain of the tax positions we have taken, or will take, on our tax returns.  Although we believe that current tax laws and regulations support our positions, there can be no assurance that tax authorities will agree with our positions.  In the event tax authorities were to challenge one or more of our tax positions, an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The loss of key personnel and an inability to attract and retain qualified employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We are dependent on the continued services of our leadership team. The loss of these personnel without adequate replacement could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, we need qualified managers and skilled employees with technical and manufacturing industry experience in many locations in order to operate our business successfully. From time to time, there may be a shortage of skilled labor, which may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we were unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals or our costs to do so were to increase significantly, our operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our indebtedness may affect our business and may restrict our operating flexibility.. At December 31, 2017, we had $356.8 in total indebtedness. On that same date, we had $314.3 of available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities, after giving effect to $35.7 reserved for outstanding letters of credit, and $33.3 of available borrowing capacity under our trade receivables financing arrangement. In addition, at December 31, 2017, we had $16.9 of available issuance capacity under our foreign credit instrument facilities after giving effect to $183.1 reserved for outstanding letters of credit. At December 31, 2017, our cash and equivalents balance was $124.3. See MD&A and Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including indebtedness incurred to finance, or assumed in connection with, acquisitions. We may renegotiate or refinance our senior credit facilities or other debt facilities, or enter into additional agreements that have different or more stringent terms. The level of our indebtedness could:. • Impact our ability to obtain new, or refinance existing, indebtedness, on favorable terms or at all;. • Limit our ability to obtain, or obtain on favorable terms, additional debt financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions;. • Limit our flexibility in reacting to competitive and other changes in the industry and economic conditions;. • Limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock in the future;. • Coupled with a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows due to economic developments or adverse developments in our business, make it difficult to meet debt service requirements; and. • Expose us to interest rate fluctuations to the extent existing borrowings are, and any new borrowings may be, at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense and interest payments in the event of increases in interest rates.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal or pay interest on, or to refinance, our indebtedness and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. In addition, we cannot assure you that future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, whether in the ordinary course of business or upon an acceleration of such indebtedness, we may pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, revising implementation of or delaying strategic plans or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. In addition, we cannot assure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements, or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements.. Numerous banks in many countries are syndicate members in our credit facility. Failure of one or more of our larger lenders, or several of our smaller lenders, could significantly reduce availability of our credit, which could harm our liquidity.. 12. We may not be able to finance future needs or adapt our business plan to react to changes in economic or business conditions because of restrictions placed on us by our senior credit facilities and any existing or future instruments governing our other indebtedness.. Our senior credit facilities and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain, or future or revised instruments may contain, various restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. We also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. Our subsidiaries may also be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us. In addition, our senior credit facilities and agreements governing our other indebtedness contain or may contain additional affirmative and negative covenants. Material existing restrictions are described more fully in the MD&A and Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. Each of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions.. If we do not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior credit facilities and agreements governing our other indebtedness, we could default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could be declared due and payable. If we default under our senior credit facilities, the lenders could cause all our outstanding debt obligations under our senior credit facilities to become due and payable or require us to repay the indebtedness under these facilities. If our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay or refinance our debt. In addition, any default under our senior credit facilities or agreements governing our other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under our senior credit facilities is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under our senior credit facilities or other debt securities then outstanding. Our ability to comply with these provisions of our senior credit facilities and agreements governing our other indebtedness will be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. Complying with our covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to us and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete, including against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.. Difficulties presented by economic, political, legal, accounting and business factors could negatively affect our business.. In 2017, approximately 87% of our revenues were generated inside the United States. Our reliance on U.S. revenues and U.S. manufacturing bases exposes us to a number of risks, including:. • Government embargoes or foreign trade restrictions such as anti-dumping duties, as well as the imposition of trade sanctions by the United States against a class of products imported from or sold and exported to, or the loss of \"normal trade relations\" status with, countries in which we conduct business, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into or exported from the United States or reduce our sales and harm our business;. • Customs and tariffs may make it difficult or impossible for us to move our products or assets across borders in a cost-effective manner;. • Transportation and shipping expenses add cost to our products;. • Complications related to shipping, including delays due to weather, labor action, or customs, may impact our profit margins or lead to lost business;. • Environmental and other laws and regulations could increase our costs or limit our ability to run our business; and. • Our ability to obtain supplies from foreign vendors and ship products internationally may be impaired during times of crisis or otherwise.. Any of the above factors or other factors affecting the movement of people and products into and from various countries to North America could have a significant negative effect on our operations. In addition, our concentration on U.S. business may make it difficult to enter new markets, making it more difficult for our businesses to grow.. Our non-U.S. revenues and operations expose us to numerous risks that may negatively impact our business.. To the extent we generate revenues outside of the United States, non-U.S. revenues and non-U.S. manufacturing bases exposes us to a number of risks, including:. • Significant competition could come from local or long-term participants in non-U.S. markets who may have significantly greater market knowledge and substantially greater resources than we do;. • Local customers may have a preference for locally-produced products;. 13. • Credit risk or financial condition of local customers and distributors could affect our ability to market our products or collect receivables;. • Regulatory or political systems or barriers may make it difficult or impossible to enter or remain in new markets. In addition, these barriers may impact our existing businesses, including making it more difficult for them to grow;. • Local political, economic and social conditions, including the possibility of hyperinflationary conditions, political instability, nationalization of private enterprises, or unexpected changes relating to currency could adversely impact our revenues and operations;. • The United Kingdom's decision to exit from the European Union (commonly referred to as \"Brexit\") has contributed to, and may continue to contribute to, European economic, market and regulatory uncertainty and could adversely affect European or worldwide economic, market, regulatory, or political conditions;. • Customs and tariffs may make it difficult or impossible for us to move our products or assets across borders in a cost-effective manner;. • Transportation and shipping expenses add cost to our products;. • Complications related to shipping, including delays due to weather, labor action, or customs, may impact our profit margins or lead to lost business;. • Local, regional or worldwide hostilities could impact our operations; and. • Distance and language and cultural differences may make it more difficult to manage our business and employees and to effectively market our products and services.. Any of the above factors or other factors affecting social and economic activity in the United Kingdom, China, and South Africa or affecting the movement of people and products into and from these countries to our major markets, could have a significant negative effect on our operations.. If the fair value of any of our reporting units is insufficient to recover the carrying value of the goodwill and other intangibles of the respective reporting unit, a material non-cash charge to earnings could result.. At December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and other intangible assets, net, of $463.5. We conduct annual impairment testing to determine if we will be able to recover all or a portion of the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles. In addition, we review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment more frequently if impairment indicators arise. If the fair value is insufficient to recover the carrying value of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles, we may be required to record a material non-cash charge to earnings.. The fair values of our reporting units generally are based on discounted cash flow projections that are believed to be reasonable under current and forecasted circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about carrying values of the reported net assets of our reporting units. Other considerations are also incorporated, including comparable price multiples. Many of our businesses closely follow changes in the industries and end markets that they serve. Accordingly, we consider estimates and judgments that affect the future cash flow projections, including principal methods of competition such as volume, price, service, product performance and technical innovations and estimates associated with cost reduction initiatives, capacity utilization, and assumptions for inflation and foreign currency changes. We monitor impairment indicators across all of our businesses. Significant changes in market conditions and estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give, and have given, rise to impairments in the period that the change becomes known.. Cost reduction actions may affect our business.. Cost reduction actions often result in charges against earnings. These charges can vary significantly from period to period and, as a result, we may experience fluctuations in our reported net income and earnings per share due to the timing of restructuring actions.. Our technology is important to our success, and failure to develop new products may result in a significant competitive disadvantage.. We believe the development of our intellectual property rights is critical to the success of our business. In order to maintain our market positions and margins, we need to continually develop and introduce high-quality, technologically advanced and cost-effective products on a timely basis, in many cases in multiple jurisdictions around the world. The failure to do so could result in a significant competitive disadvantage.. 14. Our current and planned products may contain defects or errors that are detected only after delivery to customers. If that occurs, our reputation may be harmed and we may face additional costs.. We cannot assure you that our product development, manufacturing and integration testing will be adequate to detect all defects, errors, failures and quality issues that could impact customer satisfaction or result in claims against us with regard to our products. As a result, we may have, and from time to time have had, to replace certain components and/or provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects in products that are shipped. The occurrence of any defects, errors, failures or quality issues could result in cancellation of orders, product returns, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers or our customers' end users and other losses to us or to any of our customers or end users, and could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales, which would harm our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Changes in key estimates and assumptions related to our defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, such as discount rates, assumed long-term return on assets, assumed long-term trends of future cost, and accounting and legislative changes, as well as actual investment returns on our pension plan assets and other actuarial factors, could affect our results of operations and cash flows.. We have defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, including both qualified and non-qualified plans, which cover a portion of our salaried and hourly employees and retirees, including a portion of our employees and retirees in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2017, our net liability to these plans was $156.8. The determination of funding requirements and pension expense or income associated with these plans involves significant judgment, particularly with respect to discount rates, long-term trends of future costs and other actuarial assumptions. If our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, our pension and other benefit plans' expense, funded status and our required cash contributions to such plans could be negatively impacted. In addition, returns on plan assets could have a material impact on our pension plans' expense, funded status and our required contributions to the plans. Changes in regulations or law could also significantly impact our obligations. For example, see \"MD&A - Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates\" for the impact that changes in certain assumptions used in the calculation of our costs and obligations associated with these plans could have on our results of operations and financial position.. We are subject to work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force, which may adversely impact our operations and cause us to incur incremental costs.. At December 31, 2017, we had six domestic collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 1,000 of our approximately 5,000 employees. Two of these collective bargaining agreements expire in 2018 and are scheduled for negotiation and renewal. We also have various collective labor arrangements covering certain non-U.S. employee groups. We are subject to potential union campaigns, work stoppages, union negotiations and other potential labor disputes. Further, we may be subject to work stoppages, which are beyond our control, at our suppliers or customers.. Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control of our company, and accordingly, we may not consummate a transaction that our stockholders consider favorable.. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws may inhibit changes in control of our company not approved by our Board. These provisions include, for example: a staggered board of directors; a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; a requirement that special stockholder meetings be called only by our Chairman, President or Board; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; limitations on stockholders' ability to amend, alter or repeal the By-laws; enhanced voting requirements for certain business combinations involving substantial stockholders; the authority of our Board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with terms determined in its discretion; and limitations on stockholders' ability to remove directors. In addition, we are afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have similar effects. In general, Section 203 prohibits us from engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder\" (each as defined in Section 203) for at least three years after the time the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. These protective provisions could result in our not consummating a transaction that our stockholders consider favorable or discourage entities from attempting to acquire us, potentially at a significant premium to our then-existing stock price.. 15. Increases in the number of shares of our outstanding common stock could adversely affect our common stock price or dilute our earnings per share.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock into the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. As of December 31, 2017, we had the ability to issue up to an additional 1.682 shares as restricted stock shares, restricted stock units, performance stock units, or stock options under our 2002 Stock Compensation Plan, as amended in 2006, 2011, 2012, 2015, and 2017, and our 2006 Non-Employee Directors' Stock Incentive Plan. We also may issue a significant number of additional shares, in connection with acquisitions, through a registration statement, or otherwise. Additional shares issued would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share.. Risks Related to our Spin-Off of SPX FLOW. The Spin-Off of SPX FLOW could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders.. In connection with the Spin-Off of SPX FLOW we received opinions of tax counsel satisfactory to us as to the tax-free treatment of the Spin-Off and certain related transactions. However, if the factual assumptions or representations upon which the opinions are based are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, we will not be able to rely on the opinions. Furthermore, the opinions are not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") or the courts. Accordingly, the IRS may challenge the conclusions set forth in the opinions and any such challenge could prevail. If, notwithstanding the opinions, the Spin-Off or a related transaction is determined to be taxable, we could be subject to a substantial tax liability. In addition, if the Spin-Off is determined to be taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of SPX FLOW would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received.. The Spin-Off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements.. The Spin-Off is subject to review under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Fraudulent conveyance laws generally provide that an entity engages in a constructive fraudulent conveyance when (1) the entity transfers assets and does not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in return, and (2) the entity (a) is insolvent at the time of the transfer or is rendered insolvent by the transfer, (b) has unreasonably small capital with which to carry on its business, or (c) intends to incur or believes it will incur debts beyond its ability to repay its debts as they mature. An unpaid creditor or an entity acting on behalf of a creditor (including, without limitation, a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy by us or SPX FLOW or any of our respective subsidiaries) may bring a lawsuit alleging that the Spin-Off or any of the related transactions constituted a constructive fraudulent conveyance. If a court accepts these allegations, it could impose a number of remedies, including, without limitation, voiding the distribution and returning SPX FLOW's assets or SPX FLOW's shares and subject us to liability.. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the fraudulent conveyance laws will vary depending on which jurisdiction's law is applied. Generally, an entity would be considered insolvent if (1) the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than the amount of its liabilities (including contingent liabilities); (2) the present fair saleable value of its assets is less than its probable liabilities on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured; (3) it cannot pay its debts and other liabilities (including contingent liabilities and other commitments) as they mature; or (4) it has unreasonably small capital for the business in which it is engaged. We cannot assure you what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that we, SPX FLOW or any of our respective subsidiaries were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the Spin-Off.. The distribution of SPX FLOW common stock is also subject to review under state corporate distribution statutes. Under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the \"DGCL\"), a corporation may only pay dividends to its stockholders either (1) out of its surplus (net assets) or (2) if there is no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.. Although we believe that we and SPX FLOW were each solvent at the time of the Spin-Off (including immediately after the distribution of shares of SPX FLOW common stock), that we are able to repay our debts as they mature and have sufficient capital to carry on our businesses, and that the distribution was made entirely out of surplus in accordance with Section 170 of the DGCL, we cannot assure you that a court would reach the same conclusions in determining whether SPX FLOW or we were insolvent at the time of, or after giving effect to, the Spin-Off, or whether lawful funds were available for the separation and the distribution to our stockholders.. 16"
