[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors should be aware that any purchase of our securities involves risks, including those described below, which could adversely affect the value of our securities.  We do not make, nor have we authorized any other person to make, any representation about the future market value of our securities.  In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in our securities.  Except where the context indicates otherwise, substantially all of the risks described below relating to oil and natural gas and related activities apply to NGLs as well.. Risks Relating to Our Business and the Industry. A decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations and our ability to meet our financial commitments.. The prices we receive for our oil and natural gas significantly affect many aspects of our business, including our revenue, profitability, access to capital, quantity and present value of proved reserves, and future rate of growth.  Oil and natural gas are commodities, and their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand.  Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile.  In the recent past, benchmark oil prices have fallen from highs of over $100 per Bbl to lows below $30 per Bbl, and natural gas prices have experienced declines of comparable magnitude.  Oil and natural gas prices will likely continue to be volatile in the future and will depend on numerous factors beyond our control.  These factors include the following:. • worldwide and regional economic conditions impacting the global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. • prevailing prices on local oil and natural gas price indexes in the areas in which we operate;. • localized supply and demand fundamentals and gathering, processing, and transportation availability;. • the actions, or inaction, of OPEC;. • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;. • political conditions or hostilities in oil-producing and natural gas-producing regions and related sanctions, including current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in Africa, South America, and Russia;. • the level of global oil and domestic natural gas exploration and production;. • the level of global oil and domestic natural gas inventories;. • weather conditions and natural disasters;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations;. • exports from the United States of liquefied natural gas and oil;. • speculation as to the future price of oil and natural gas and the speculative trading of oil and natural gas futures contracts;. • price and availability of competitors' supplies of oil and natural gas;. • technological advances affecting energy consumption; and. • the price and availability of alternative fuels.. Sustained periods of reduced oil and natural gas prices and the resultant effect such prices have on our drilling economics and our ability to fund our operations could require us to re-evaluate and postpone or eliminate our development drilling, which would make it more difficult for us to achieve expected levels of production.  Lower prices may also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and may cause the value of our estimated proved reserves at future reporting dates to decline, which would likely result in a reduction in our proved undeveloped reserves and PV-10 and standardized measure values.. Lower oil and natural gas prices may also reduce our borrowing ability. Our borrowing capacity is based substantially on the value of our oil and natural gas reserves which are, in turn, impacted by prevailing oil and natural gas prices.  Our actual borrowings may not exceed our borrowing base, which is currently $400 million.  The next semi-annual redetermination of the borrowing base is scheduled to occur in April 2018.  If our borrowing base were to decline significantly, we could have to either raise additional capital or adjust our drilling plan.  In addition, if the lenders reduce the borrowing base below the then-outstanding balance, we will be required to repay the difference between the outstanding balance and the reduced borrowing base, and we may not have or be able to obtain the funds necessary to do so.. We have historically relied on the availability of additional capital, including proceeds from the sale of equity, debt, and convertible securities, to execute our business strategy.  Future acquisitions may require substantial additional capital, the availability of which will depend in significant part on current and expected commodity prices.  If we are unable to raise capital on acceptable terms in the future, we may be unable to pursue future acquisition.. 21. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we periodically enter into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production.  We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices.  If oil and natural gas prices decline, we will not be able to hedge future production at the same pricing level as our current hedges, and our results of operations and financial condition would be negatively impacted.  In addition, hedging arrangements can expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, a counterparty to a hedging contract fails to perform under the contract, or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging contract and the actual prices received.. Accordingly, any substantial or extended decline in the prices that we receive for our production would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, ability to meet our financial obligations, and our results of operations.. Operating hazards may adversely affect our ability to conduct business.. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, such as:. • unexpected drilling conditions including loss of well control, loss of drilling fluid circulation, cratering, and explosions;. • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, or well fluids;. • equipment failures, fires, or accidents;. • pollution, releases of hazardous materials, and other environmental risks; and. • shortages in experienced labor or shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment or the performance of services.. These risks could result in substantial losses to us from injury and loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, and suspension of operations.  We do not maintain insurance for all of these risks, nor in amounts that cover all of the losses to which we may be subject, and the insurance that we have may not continue to be available on acceptable terms.  Moreover, some risks that we face are not insurable.  For example, a leak or other pollution event may occur without our knowledge, making it impossible for us to notify the insurer within the time period required by the policy.  Also, we could in some circumstances have liability for actions taken by third parties over which we have no or limited control, including operators of properties in which we have an interest.  The occurrence of an uninsured or underinsured loss could result in significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.  In addition, maintenance activities undertaken to reduce operational risks can be costly and can require exploration, exploitation, and development operations to be curtailed while those activities are being completed.. Our actual production, revenues, and expenditures related to our reserves are likely to differ from those underlying our estimates of proved reserves.  We may experience production that is less than estimated, and drilling costs that are greater than estimated, in our reserve report.  These differences may be material.. Reserve engineering is a complex and subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner.  Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including:. • historical production from the area compared with production from similar producing wells;. • the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies;. • assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices; and. • assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs, and workover and remedial costs.. Because all reserve estimates are based on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect and are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ from those assumed in estimating proved reserves:. • the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered;. • the production and operating costs incurred;. • the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and. • future cash flows from the development of reserves.. Historically, there has been a difference between our actual production and the production estimated in prior reserve reports.  We cannot assure you that these differences will not be material in the future.. Approximately 61% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2017 are undeveloped.  Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations.  Our estimates of proved undeveloped reserves. 22. reflect our plans to make significant capital expenditures to convert those reserves into proved developed reserves, including approximately $982.9 million in estimated capital expenditures during the five years ending December 31, 2022.  The estimated development costs may not be accurate, development may not occur as scheduled, and results may not be as estimated.  If we choose not to develop proved undeveloped reserves, or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop them, we will be required to remove the associated volumes from our reported proved reserves.  In addition, under the SEC's reserve reporting rules, proved undeveloped reserves generally may be booked only if they relate to wells scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of initial booking, and we may therefore be required to downgrade to probable or possible any proved undeveloped reserves that are not developed or expected to be developed within this five-year time frame.. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted cash flows is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves.  In accordance with SEC requirements, the standardized measure of discounted cash flows from proved reserves at December 31, 2017 is based on twelve-month average prices and costs as of the date of the estimate.  These prices and costs will change and may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate.  Any changes in consumption by oil and natural gas purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation may also affect actual future net cash flows.  The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value.  In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating standardized measure of discounted cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with accounting requirements is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor.  Each of the foregoing considerations also impacts the PV-10 values of our reserves.. Seasonal weather conditions, wildlife and plant species conservation restrictions, and other constraints could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations.. Our operations could be adversely affected by weather conditions and wildlife and plant species conservation restrictions.  In Colorado, certain activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months.  Winter and severe weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt operations.  These constraints and resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our operations and materially increase our operational and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Similarly, some of our properties are located in relatively populous areas in the Wattenberg Field, and our operations in those areas may be subject to additional expenses and limitations.  For example, we may incur additional expenses in those areas to mitigate visual impacts, noise, and odor issues relating to our operations, and we may find it more difficult to obtain drilling permits and other governmental approvals.  In addition, the risk of litigation related to our operations may be higher in those areas.  Any of these factors could have a material impact on our operations in the Wattenberg Field and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Furthermore, a critical habitat designation for certain wildlife under the U.S. Endangered Species Act or similar state laws could result in material restrictions to public or private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development.  The listing of particular species as threatened or endangered could have a material adverse effect on our operations in areas where those species are found.. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop, produce, and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable.  Drilling activities may be unsuccessful or may be less successful than anticipated.. In order to maintain or increase our reserves, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and natural gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production.  We must do this even during periods of low oil and natural gas prices when it is difficult to raise the capital necessary to finance our exploration, development, and acquisition activities.  Without successful exploration, development, or acquisition activities, our reserves and revenues will decline rapidly.  We may not be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have access to necessary financing for these activities, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our management has identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage.  These identified drilling locations represent a significant part of our strategy.  Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and natural gas prices, costs, drilling results, and the accuracy of our assumptions and estimates regarding potential well communication issues and other matters affecting the spacing of our wells.  Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations that we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil and natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations.. 23. Drilling for oil and natural gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient quantities to cover drilling, operating, and other costs.  In addition, even a commercial well may have production that is less, or costs that are greater, than we projected.  The cost of drilling, completing, and operating a well is often uncertain, and many factors can adversely affect the economics of a well or property.  There can be no assurance that proved or unproved property acquired by us or undeveloped acreage leased by us will be profitably developed, that new wells drilled by us in prospects that we pursue will be productive, or that we will recover all or any portion of our investment in such proved or unproved property or wells.. Acquisitions we pursue may not achieve their intended results and may result in us assuming unanticipated liabilities.  These risks are heightened in the case of the GCII Acquisition due to its size relative to our prior acreage position.. Pursuing acquisitions is an important part of our growth strategy.  However, achieving the anticipated benefits of any acquisition is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties.  For example, we may discover title defects or adverse environmental or other conditions related to the acquired properties of which we are unaware at the time that we enter into the relevant purchase and sale agreement.  Environmental, title, and other problems could reduce the value of the acquired properties to us, and depending on the circumstances, we could have limited or no recourse to the sellers with respect to those problems.  We may assume all or substantially all of the liabilities associated with the acquired properties and may be entitled to indemnification in connection with those liabilities in only limited circumstances and in limited amounts.  We cannot assure that such potential remedies will be adequate for any liabilities that we incur, and such liabilities could be significant.  Even though we perform due diligence reviews (including a review of title and other records) of the major properties that we seek to acquire that we believe are generally consistent with industry practices, these reviews are inherently incomplete.  It is typically not feasible for us to perform an in-depth review of every individual property and all records involved in each acquisition.  Moreover, even an in-depth review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential liabilities or other problems or permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential.  The discovery of any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  In addition, completing the integration process for any acquisition may be more expensive than anticipated, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to effect the integration of any acquired operations smoothly or efficiently or that the anticipated benefits of any transaction will be achieved.  Further, acquisitions may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership.. The success of any acquisition will depend on, among other things, the accuracy of our assessment of the number and quality of the drilling locations associated with the properties to be acquired, future oil and natural gas prices, reserves and production, and future operating costs and various other factors.  These assessments are necessarily inexact.  Our assessment of certain of these factors will typically be based in part on information provided to us by the seller, including historical production data.  Our independent reserve engineers typically will not provide a report regarding the estimated reserves associated with properties to be acquired.  The assumptions on which our internal estimates are based may prove to be incorrect in a number of material ways, resulting in our not realizing the expected benefits of the acquisition.  As a result, we may not recover the purchase price for the acquisition from the sale of production from the acquired properties or recognize an acceptable return from such sales.. We are subject to all of the foregoing risks with respect to the GCII Acquisition, and these risks are heightened with respect to that acquisition due to the significant amount of acreage acquired relative to our prior acreage position.. We may not be able to obtain adequate financing when the need arises to execute our long-term operating strategy.. Our ability to execute our long-term operating strategy is highly dependent on our having access to capital when the need arises.  Historically, we have addressed our liquidity needs through credit facilities, issuances of equity, debt, and convertible securities, sales of assets, joint ventures, and cash provided by operating activities.  We will examine the following alternative sources of capital in light of economic conditions in existence at the relevant time:. • borrowings from banks or other lenders;. • the sale of non-core assets;. • the issuance of debt securities;. • the sale of common stock, preferred stock, or other equity securities;. • joint venture financing; and. • production payments.. The availability of these sources of capital when the need arises will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.  These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, oil and natural gas prices, our. 24. credit ratings, interest rates, market perceptions of us or the oil and gas industry, our market value, and our operating performance.  We may be unable to execute our long-term operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these sources when the need arises, which would adversely affect our production, cash flows, and capital expenditure plans.. We are dependent on third party pipeline, trucking, and rail systems to transport our production and gathering and processing systems to prepare our production.  These systems have limited capacity and, at times, have experienced service disruptions.  Curtailments, disruptions, or lack of availability in these systems interfere with our ability to produce and/or market the oil and natural gas we produce and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations.. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and gas transportation and processing arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production.  The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part on the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering, processing, pipeline, trucking, and rail systems.  The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as when pipeline interruptions occur due to scheduled or unscheduled maintenance, accidents, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, lack of contracted capacity on such systems, inclement weather, labor or regulatory issues, or other reasons.  A portion of our production may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time as a result of these factors.  Curtailments and disruptions in the systems we use may last from a few days to several months or longer.  These risks are greater for us than for some of our competitors because our operations are focused on areas where there has been a substantial amount of development activity in recent years and resulting increases in production, and this has increased the likelihood that there will be periods of time in which there is insufficient midstream capacity to accommodate the increased production.  For example, the gas gathering systems serving the Wattenberg Field have in recent years experienced high line pressures from time to time, and this has on occasion reduced capacity and caused gas production to be shut in.  In addition, we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions.  Any significant curtailment in gathering, processing or pipeline system capacity, significant delay in the construction of necessary facilities, or lack of availability of transport would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas that we produce and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations and the expected results of our drilling program.. Oil and natural gas prices may be affected by local and regional factors.. The prices to be received for our production will be determined to a significant extent by factors affecting the local and regional supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including the adequacy of the pipeline and processing infrastructure in the region to process and transport our production and that of other producers.  Those factors result in basis differentials between the published indices generally used to establish the price received for regional natural gas production and the actual (frequently lower) price that we receive for our production.  Our average differential for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $(6.58) per barrel for oil and $(0.67) per Mcf for natural gas.  These differentials are difficult to predict and may widen or narrow in the future based on market forces.  The unpredictability of future differentials makes it more difficult for us to effectively hedge our production.  Our hedging arrangements are generally based on benchmark prices and therefore do not protect us from adverse changes in the differential applicable to our production.. Lower oil and natural gas prices and other adverse market conditions may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs or other impairments, which could negatively impact our results of operations.. We use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations.  Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for, and develop oil and gas properties.  Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties may not exceed a \"full cost ceiling\" which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of hedges in place, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties.  If, at the end of any fiscal period, we determine that the net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceed the full cost ceiling, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings in the period then ended.  This is called a \"ceiling test write-down.\"  This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce our net income and stockholders' equity.  Once incurred, a ceiling test write-down is not reversible at a later date.. We review the net capitalized costs of our properties quarterly, using a single price based on the beginning-of-the-month average of oil and natural gas prices for the preceding 12 months.  We also assess investments in unproved properties periodically to determine whether impairment has occurred.  The risk that we will be required to further write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile.  In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our unproved property values or if estimated future development costs increase.. 25. The ceiling test calculation as of December 31, 2017 used average realized prices of $46.57 per barrel and $2.21 per Mcf.  The oil price used at December 31, 2017 was approximately 29% higher than the December 31, 2016 price of $36.07 per barrel, and the gas price was approximately 9% lower than the December 31, 2016 price of $2.44 Mcf.  In addition to our December 31, 2017 ceiling test calculation, we compare our net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties to the ceiling amount at various points during the year.  At March 31, 2017, June 30, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2017, the ceiling amount exceeded our net capitalized costs for oil and gas properties, and as such, no impairments were necessary.  We may experience further ceiling test write-downs in the future.  Any future ceiling test cushion, and the risk we may incur further write-downs or impairments, will be subject to fluctuation as a result of acquisition or divestiture activity.  In addition, declining commodity prices or other adverse market conditions, such as declines in the market price of our common stock, could result in goodwill impairments or reductions in proved reserve estimates that would adversely affect our results of operation or financial condition.. We cannot control activities on properties that we do not operate, and we are unable to ensure the proper operation and profitability of these non-operated properties.. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest.  As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operation of these properties.  The success and timing of drilling and development activities on our partially owned properties operated by others, therefore, will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator's:. • timing and amount of capital expenditures;. • expertise and diligence in adequately performing operations and complying with applicable agreements, laws, and regulations;. • financial resources;. • inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and. • use of technology.. As a result of an operator's failure to act in ways that are in our best interest, our allocated production revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected.  In addition, our lack of control over non-operated properties makes it more difficult for us to forecast future capital expenditures and production.. We may be unable to satisfy our contractual obligations, including obligations to deliver oil and natural gas from our own production or other sources.. We have entered into agreements that require us to deliver minimum amounts of oil to four counterparties that transport oil via pipelines.  Pursuant to these agreements, we must deliver specific amounts, either from our own production or from oil we acquire, over the next three years.  Since 2016, we have been obligated to deliver a combined volume of 11,157 Bbls of oil per day to three of these counterparties.  We also committed to deliver 2,500 Bbls of oil per day to the fourth counterparty for approximately one and a half years beginning in the latter half of 2018.  If we are unable to fulfill all of our contractual obligations from our own production or from oil and natural gas that we acquire from third parties, we may be required to pay penalties or damages pursuant to these agreements.  We incurred such charges in the amount of $0.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2017.. Furthermore, in collaboration with several other producers and DCP Midstream, LP (\"DCP Midstream\"), we have agreed to participate in the expansion of natural gas gathering and processing capacity in the D-J Basin.  The first agreement includes a new 200 MMcf per day processing plant as well as the expansion of a related gathering system. Both are currently expected to be completed during the third quarter of 2018, although the start-up date is undetermined at this time. Our share of the commitment will require 46.4 MMcf per day to be delivered after the plant in-service date for a period of seven years. The second agreement also includes a new 200 MMcf per day processing plant as well as the expansion of a related gathering system. Both are currently expected to be completed in mid-2019, although the start-up date is undetermined at this time. Our share of the commitment will require 43.8 MMcf per day to be delivered after the plant in-service date for a period of seven years. These contractual obligations can be reduced by the collective volumes delivered to the plants by other producers in the D-J Basin that are in excess of such producers' total commitment.. Any future penalties or damages of the types described above could adversely impact our cash flows, profit margins, net income, and reserve values.. 26. We face strong competition from larger oil and natural gas companies that may negatively affect our ability to carry on operations.. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, development, and production.  Factors that affect our ability to compete successfully in the marketplace include:. • the availability of funds for, and information relating to, properties;. • the standards established by us for the minimum projected return on investment; and. • the transportation of natural gas and oil.. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, substantial independent energy companies, affiliates of major interstate and intrastate pipelines, and national and local gas gatherers, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than we do.  If we are unable to successfully compete against our competitors, our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected.. We may be unable to successfully identify, execute, or effectively integrate future acquisitions, which may negatively affect our results of operations.. Acquisitions of oil and gas businesses and properties have been an important element of our business, and we will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future.  Although we regularly engage in discussions with, and submit proposals to, acquisition candidates, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms.  If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may be unable to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition, or if the acquisition occurs, effectively integrate the acquired business or properties into our existing business.  Negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired assets may require a disproportionate amount of management's attention and our resources.  Moreover, our debt agreements contain covenants that may limit our ability to finance an acquisition.  Even if we complete additional acquisitions, new assets may not generate revenues comparable to our existing business, the anticipated cost efficiencies or synergies may not be realized, and the assets may not be integrated successfully or operated profitably.  Our inability to successfully identify, execute, or effectively integrate future acquisitions may negatively affect our results of operations.. We may incur substantial costs to comply with the various federal, state, and local laws and regulations that affect our oil and natural gas operations, including as a result of the actions of third parties.. We are affected significantly by a substantial number of governmental regulations relating to, among other things, the release or disposal of materials into the environment, health and safety, land use, and other matters.  A summary of the principal environmental rules and regulations to which we are currently subject is set forth in \"Business and Properties-Governmental Regulation-Environmental Regulations.\"  Compliance with such laws and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and thereby decreases our profitability.  Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of cease and desist orders.. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may, among other things:. • require us to apply for and receive a permit before drilling commences or certain associated facilities are developed;. • restrict the types, quantities, and concentrations of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and production activities;. • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other \"waters of the United States,\" threatened and endangered species habitat, and other protected areas;. • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells;. • require us to add procedures and/or staff in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations; and. • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations.. In addition, we could face liability under applicable environmental laws and regulations as a result of the activities of previous owners of our properties or other third parties.  For example, over the years, we have owned or leased numerous properties for oil and natural gas activities upon which petroleum hydrocarbons or other materials may have been released by us or by predecessor property owners or lessees who were not under our control.  Under applicable environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA, and state laws, we could be held liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination at such locations, or at third-party locations to which we have sent waste, regardless of our fault, whether we were responsible for the release or whether the operations at the time of the release were lawful.. 27. Compliance with, or liabilities associated with violations of or remediation obligations under, environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. New or amended environmental legislation or regulatory initiatives could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions, or delays or have other adverse effects on us.. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject change frequently, often to become more burdensome and/or to increase the risk that we will be subject to significant liabilities.  New or amended federal, state, or local laws or implementing regulations or orders imposing new environmental obligations on, or otherwise limiting, our operations could make it more difficult and more expensive to complete oil and natural gas wells, increase our costs of compliance and doing business, delay or prevent the development of resources (especially from shale formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing), or alter the demand for and consumption of our products.  Any such outcome could have a material and adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations.. For example, in 2014 and 2016, opponents of hydraulic fracturing sought statewide ballot initiatives in Colorado that would have restricted oil and gas development in Colorado and could have had materially adverse impacts on us.  One of the proposed initiatives would have made the vast majority of the surface area of the state ineligible for drilling, including substantially all of our planned future drilling locations.  Although none of the proposed initiatives were implemented, future initiatives are likely, including in 2018.  Similarly, proposals are made from time to time to adopt new, or amend existing, laws and regulations to address hydraulic fracturing or climate change concerns through further regulation of exploration and development activities.  The \"Business and Properties-Governmental Regulation-Environmental Matters\" section of this report includes a discussion of some recent environmental regulatory changes that have affected us.  We cannot predict the nature, outcome, or effect on us of future regulatory initiatives, but such initiatives could materially impact our results of operations, production, reserves, and other aspects of our business.. The adoption and implementation of statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital required to conduct these activities.. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market.  Regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act may, among other things, require us to comply with margin requirements in connection with our derivative activities.  If we are required to post cash collateral in connection with some or all of our derivative positions, this would make it difficult or impossible to pursue our current hedging strategy.  The regulations may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties.  The regulations may also reduce the number of potential counterparties in the market, which could make hedging more expensive.. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, our results of operations may be more volatile, and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  In addition, derivative instruments create a risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than the volume covered by the instruments.. Proposed changes to U.S. tax laws, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. From time to time, legislative proposals are made that would, if enacted, result in the elimination of the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, the elimination of the deduction from income for domestic production activities relating to oil and gas exploration and development, the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, and an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures.  Such changes, if adopted, or other similar changes that reduce or eliminate deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 28. Our indebtedness adversely affects our cash flow and may adversely affect our ability to operate our business.  Our ability to remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt is subject to numerous risks.. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness was $550 million.  Our indebtedness could have important consequences for investors, including the following:. • the covenants contained in our debt agreements limit our ability to borrow money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures, or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations and may limit our flexibility in operating our business;. • the amount of our interest expense may increase because amounts borrowed under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates; if interest rates increase, this could result in higher interest expense; and. • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors.  We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation.  We cannot be certain that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations.  If we do not have enough cash to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money, or raise equity.  We may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money, or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all.. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our ability to make payments on and/or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future.  To a significant extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions, and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.  For example, decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the recent past have adversely affected our ability to generate cash flow from operations and future decreases would have similar effects.  If our cash flow and existing capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce our planned capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital, or restructure our debt, and any of these actions, if completed, could adversely affect our business and/or the holders of our securities.  We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, in a timely manner or at all.  In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms.  Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity.. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions, and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests.. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our 2025 Senior Notes contain, and future debt agreements may contain, covenants that restrict or limit our ability to:. • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or issue preferred stock;. • repurchase, redeem, or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt;. • make certain loans and investments;. • sell assets;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates;. • create or assume certain liens on our assets;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • merge or enter into other business combination transactions; or. • engage in certain other corporate activities.. Our credit facility also requires us to satisfy certain financial tests on an ongoing basis.  Our ability to comply with these requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will satisfy them in the future.  In. 29. addition, these requirements could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities.  We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the restrictive covenants under our debt agreements.  Future debt agreements may have similar, or more restrictive, provisions.. A breach of any of the covenants in our debt agreements could result in a default under the agreement.  A default, if not cured or waived, could result in all indebtedness outstanding under the agreement and other debt agreements becoming immediately due and payable.  If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it.  Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.  If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could accelerate the maturity of the debt or proceed against any collateral granted to them to secure such defaulted debt.. We participate in oil and gas leases with third parties who may not be able to fulfill their commitments to our projects.. We frequently own less than 100% of the working interest in the oil and gas leases on which we conduct operations.  Financial risks are inherent in any operation where the cost of drilling, equipping, completing, and operating wells is shared by more than one person.  We could be held liable for joint activity obligations of other working interest owners, such unpaid costs and liabilities arising from the actions of other working interest owners.  In addition, declines in commodity prices may increase the likelihood that some of these working interest owners, particularly those that are smaller and less established, will not be able to fulfill their joint activity obligations.  A partner may be unable or unwilling to pay its share of project costs, and in some cases, a partner may declare bankruptcy.  In the event any of our project partners do not pay their share of such costs, we would likely have to pay those costs, and we may be unsuccessful in any efforts to recover them from our partners.  This could materially adversely affect our financial position.. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect potential acts of fraud.. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in applicable SEC rules and forms.. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.  Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.  Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been prevented or detected.  These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake.  Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls.  The design of any system of controls is also based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions.  Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management in this report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.  The management report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective.  This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management.  If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price.. 30. Substantially all of our producing properties are located in the D-J Basin in Colorado, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.. Our operations have been focused on the D-J Basin in Colorado, which means our current producing properties and new drilling opportunities are geographically concentrated in that area.  Because our operations are not as diversified geographically as many of our competitors, the success of our operations and our profitability may be disproportionately exposed to the effect of regional events, including fluctuations in prices of oil and natural gas produced from the wells in the region, natural disasters, restrictive governmental regulations, transportation capacity constraints, weather, curtailment of production, or interruption of transportation and processing services, and any resulting delays or interruptions of production from existing or planned new wells.  For example, bottlenecks in processing and transportation that have occurred in some recent periods in the Wattenberg Field have negatively affected our results of operations.  Similarly, the concentration of our producing assets within a small number of producing formations exposes us to risks, such as changes in field-wide rules that could adversely affect development activities or production relating to those formations.  In addition, in areas where exploration and production activities are increasing, as has been the case in recent years in the Wattenberg Field, the demand for, and cost of, drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and oilfield services increase.  Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, or oilfield services could delay or adversely affect our development and exploration operations or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital forecast, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The inability of one or more of our customers to meet their obligations may adversely affect our financial results.. Substantially all of our accounts receivable result from oil and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the energy industry.  We sell production to a small number of customers, as is customary in the industry.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had three major customers, which represented 33%, 24%, and 17%, respectively, of our revenue during the period.  This concentration of customers and joint interest owners may impact our overall credit risk in that these entities may be similarly affected by changes in economic and other conditions.  In addition, our oil and natural gas hedging arrangements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance by counterparties.. Failure to adequately protect critical data and technology systems could materially affect our operations.. Information technology solution failures, network disruptions, and breaches of data security could cause delays or cancellation of transactions, impede processing of transactions and reporting financial results, or cause inadvertent disclosure of non-public information or other problems, any of which could result in disruptions to our operations, liability to third parties, or damage to our reputation.  A system failure or data security breach may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water.  Restrictions on our ability to obtain or dispose of water at a reasonable cost and in compliance with applicable regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes.  Historically, we have been able to purchase water from local land owners for use in our operations.  When drought conditions occur, governmental authorities may restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies.  Colorado has a relatively arid climate and experiences drought conditions from time to time.  If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources or dispose of or recycle water used in operations, or if the price of water or water disposal increases significantly, we may be unable to produce oil and natural gas economically, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our undeveloped acreage must be drilled before lease expiration to hold the acreage by production.  In highly competitive markets for acreage, failure to drill sufficient wells to hold acreage could result in a substantial lease renewal cost, or if renewal is not feasible, loss of our lease and prospective drilling opportunities.. Unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of our drilling locations are identified, our leases for such acreage will expire.  The cost to renew such leases may increase significantly, and we may not be able to renew such leases on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  As such, our actual drilling activities may differ materially from our current expectations, which could materially and adversely affect our business.  The risk of lease expiration typically increases at times when commodity prices are depressed, as the pace of our exploration and development activity tends to slow during such periods.  The GCII Acquisition increased these risks for us as a large portion of the acreage we acquired in the transaction is undeveloped.. 31. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest.. It is our practice in acquiring oil and gas leases or interests not to incur the expense of retaining lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest at the time of acquisition.  Rather, we rely upon the judgment of oil and gas lease brokers or landmen who perform the fieldwork in examining records in the appropriate governmental office before attempting to acquire a lease in a specific mineral interest.  The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  While we typically obtain title opinions prior to commencing drilling operations on a lease or in a unit, the failure of title may not be discovered until after a well is drilled, in which case we may lose the lease and the right to produce all or a portion of the minerals under the property.. Part of our strategy involves drilling using the latest available horizontal drilling and completion techniques, which involve risks and uncertainties in their application.. Our operations involve utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers.  As of December 31, 2017, we operated 227 gross horizontal producing wells, with an additional 51 horizontal wells waiting on completion, and therefore are subject to increased risks associated with horizontal drilling as compared to companies that have greater experience in horizontal drilling activities.  Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, failing to land our wellbore in the desired drilling zone, not staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, not running our casing the entire length of the wellbore, and not being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore.  Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, not being able to fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, not being able to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations, and not successfully cleaning out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.  Also, we generally use multi-well pads instead of single-well sites.  The use of multi-well pad drilling increases some operational risks because problems affecting the pad or a single well could adversely affect production from all of the wells on the pad.  Pad drilling can also make our overall production, and therefore our revenue and cash flows, more volatile, because production from multiple wells on a pad will typically commence simultaneously.  Ultimately, the success of new drilling and completion techniques can only be evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established over a sufficiently long time period.  If our drilling results are less successful than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems, unfavorable commodity prices, or other factors, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate.  Further, as a result of any of these developments, we could incur material write-downs of our oil and gas properties, and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is restricted.. Since inception, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock.  Cash dividends are restricted under the terms of our debt agreements, and we presently intend to continue the policy of using retained earnings for expansion of our business.  Any future dividends also may be restricted by future agreements.. The price of our stock price has been and may continue to be highly volatile, which may make it difficult for shareholders to sell our common stock when desired or at attractive prices.. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile, and we expect it to continue to be volatile for the foreseeable future.  Adverse events, including, among others:. • changes in production volumes, worldwide demand and prices for oil and natural gas;. • changes in market prices of oil and natural gas;. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance;. • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of energy companies;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • changes in interest rates;. • announcements regarding adverse timing or lack of success in discovering, acquiring, developing, and producing oil and natural gas resources;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new acquisitions, discoveries, commercial relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments;. • decreases in the amount of capital available to us;. • operating results that fall below market expectations or variations in our quarterly operating results;. 32. • loss of a relationship with a partner;. • the identification of and severity of environmental events and governmental and other third-party responses to the events; or. • additions or departures of key personnel,. could trigger significant declines in the price of our common stock.  External events, such as news concerning economic conditions, counterparties to our natural gas or oil derivatives arrangements, changes in government regulations impacting the oil and gas exploration and production industries, actual and expected production levels from OPEC members and other oil-producing countries and the movement of capital into or out of our industry, are also likely to affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  Furthermore, general market conditions, including the level of, and fluctuations in, the trading prices of stocks generally could affect the price of our common stock.. Additional financings may subject our existing stockholders to significant dilution.. To the extent that we raise additional funds or complete acquisitions by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution.  In addition, debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants.  We may seek to access the public or private capital markets whenever conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time.  Our access to the financial markets and the pricing and terms that we receive in those markets could be adversely impacted by various factors, including changes in general market conditions and commodity prices.. Equity compensation plans will result in future dilution of our common stock.. To the extent options to purchase common stock under our equity incentive plans are exercised, or shares of restricted stock or other equity awards are issued based on satisfaction of vesting requirements, holders of our common stock will experience dilution.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 8,738,146 shares reserved for issuance under our equity compensation plans, of which 1,087,386 restricted shares have been granted and are subject to vesting in the future based on the satisfaction of certain criteria established pursuant to the respective awards, 951,884 performance-vested restricted shares have been granted and are subject to future issuance based on the Company's total shareholder return relative to a selected peer group of companies over the performance period, and 5,636,834 of which are issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options to purchase common stock.  Our outstanding options have a weighted average exercise price of $9.38 per share as of December 31, 2017.. Non-U.S. holders of our common stock, in certain situations, could be subject to U.S. federal income tax upon sale, exchange, or disposition of our common stock.. It is likely that we are, and will remain for the foreseeable future, a U.S. real property holding corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes because our assets consist primarily of \"United States real property interests\" as defined in the applicable Treasury regulations.  As a result, under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act (\"FIRPTA\"), certain non-U.S. investors may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain from the disposition of shares of our common stock, in which case they would also be required to file U.S. tax returns with respect to such gain, and may be subject to a withholding tax.  In general, whether these FIRPTA provisions apply depends on the amount of our common stock that such non-U.S. investors hold and whether, at the time they dispose of their shares, our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of the applicable Treasury regulations.  So long as our common stock continues to be regularly traded on an established securities market, only a non-U.S. investor who has owned, actually or constructively, more than 5% of our common stock at any time during the shorter of (i) the five-year period ending on the date of disposition and (ii) the non-U.S. investor's holding period for its shares may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the disposition of our common stock under FIRPTA."
