[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The risks described below are not the only risks facing us.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also materially and adversely affect our business.  If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Current Business Strategy. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance.. Our cash and available-for-sale securities comprise approximately 32.9% of the carrying value of our assets, while our assets related to our existing investments in real estate comprise approximately 36.1% of the carrying value of our assets.  Our future financial performance and success are therefore heavily dependent on our ability to implement our business strategy successfully.. Our current business strategy envisions several initiatives, including investing in new real estate and real estate related opportunities, such as the development of our real estate, including expanding our portfolio of income producing commercial properties, expanding the scope of our club and resort assets and services, entering into strategic alliances, investing in businesses related to our real estate development, management, and operating activities, exploration of active adult communities, investing in available-for-sale securities or longer term investments in real estate investment trusts and other investments in illiquid securities and continuing to efficiently contribute to our bottom line performance.  We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy or achieve the benefits of our business plan.  If we are not successful in achieving our objectives, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be negatively affected.. Management has discretion as to the investments we make and may not use these funds effectively.. We plan to continue to invest in available-for-sale securities or longer term investments in real estate investment trusts and other investments in illiquid securities until we can find what we believe to be other advantageous opportunities for these funds.  Our management has discretion in the selection of these investments and could make investments that do not improve our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition or enhance the value of our common stock or which result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and stock price.  Additionally, longer term investments, such as real estate investment trusts and other investments in illiquid securities are inherently riskier investments and could result in us losing some or all of our investment as well as not being able to liquidate our position when we would otherwise wish to do so.. Our investments in new business opportunities are inherently risky, and could disrupt our ongoing business and adversely affect our operations.. We have invested and expect to continue to invest in new business opportunities, such as the expansion of our portfolio of income producing commercial properties, the development of our real estate, including the exploration of active adult communities and the expansion of port related opportunities at the Port of Port St. Joe.  Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities incurred and expenses associated with these new investments, including development costs, inadequate return of capital on our investments, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence of such opportunities.  Because these ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and offerings will be successful and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results.. We intend to invest our assets in ways such that we will not have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  As a result, we may be unable to make some potentially profitable investments.. We are not registered as an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\") and we intend to invest our assets in such a manner so that we are not required to register as an investment company.  This will require monitoring our portfolio so that (a) on an unconsolidated basis we will not have more than 40% of total assets (excluding U.S. government securities and cash items) in investment securities or (b) we will meet and maintain another exemption from registration.  As a result, we may be (1) unable to make some potentially profitable investments, (2) unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell or (3) forced to sell investments in investment securities before we would otherwise want to do so.. 7. Table of Contents. If Fairholme controls us within the meaning of the Investment Company Act, we may be unable to engage in transactions with potential strategic partners, which could adversely affect our business.. As of December 31, 2017, clients of Fairholme Capital Management, L.L.C. (\"FCM\", a registered investment advisor registered with the SEC), Fairholme Funds, Inc. (the \"Fairholme Fund\") and/or one or more of their affiliates, which we refer to, along with Fairholme Holdings and FTC (each as defined below), as Fairholme, beneficially owned approximately 42.33% of our common stock and Fairholme, including Mr. Berkowitz and clients of FCM and FTC, collectively beneficially owned 43.95% of our outstanding common stock.  Mr. Berkowitz is the Chief Investment Officer of FCM, a director of both Fairholme Fund and Fairholme Trust Company, LLC (\"FTC\", a non-depository trust company regulated by the Florida Office of Financial Regulation) and the Chairman of our Board of Directors (the \"Board\").  Mr. Berkowitz is also the Manager of, and controls entities that own and control, Fairholme Holdings, LLC (\"Fairholme Holdings\"), which wholly owns FCM and FTC.  Cesar Alvarez also serves as a director of the Fairholme Fund, a director of FTC and is a member of our Board.  In addition, Howard Frank serves as a director of the Fairholme Fund and is a member of our Board.  Fairholme has served as our investment advisor since April 2013.  Fairholme does not receive any compensation for services as our investment advisor.. Under the Investment Company Act, \"control\" means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company, unless such power is solely the result of an official position with such company.  Any person who owns beneficially, either directly or through one or more controlled companies, more than 25% of the outstanding voting securities of a company is presumed to control such company.  The SEC has considered factors other than ownership of voting securities in determining control, including an official position with the company when such was obtained as a result of the influence over the company.  Accordingly, even if Fairholme's beneficial ownership in us is below 25% of our outstanding voting securities, Fairholme may nevertheless be deemed to control us.  The Investment Company Act generally prohibits a company controlled by an investment company from engaging in certain transactions with any affiliate of the investment company or affiliates of the affiliate, subject to limited exceptions.  An affiliate of an investment company is defined in the Investment Company Act as, among other things, any company 5% or more of whose outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned, controlled, or held with power to vote, by the investment company, a company directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the investment company or a company directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding with power to vote, 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the investment company.. We believe that Fairholme is currently affiliated with a number of entities, including Imperial Metals Corp., Sears Holdings Corp. and Seritage Growth Properties.  Due to these affiliations, should Fairholme be deemed to control us, under the Investment Act, we may be prohibited from engaging in certain transactions with these entities and certain of their affiliates and any future affiliates of Fairholme, unless an exception applies.  To the extent Fairholme is not deemed to control us, if Fairholme's beneficial interest in us is at or above 5% of our outstanding voting securities, it would remain our affiliate and we may be prohibited from engaging in certain transactions with it and its affiliates.. This could adversely affect our ability to enter into transactions freely and compete in the marketplace.  In addition, significant penalties and other consequences may arise as a result of a violation for companies found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act.. If the SEC were to disagree with our Investment Company Act determinations, our business could be adversely affected.. We have not requested approval or guidance from the SEC with respect to our Investment Company Act determinations, including, in particular: our treatment of any subsidiary as majority-owned; the compliance of any subsidiary with any exemption under the Investment Company Act, including any subsidiary's determinations with respect to the consistency of its assets or operations with the requirements thereof; or whether our interests in one or more subsidiaries constitute investment securities for purposes of the 40% test.  If the SEC were to disagree with our treatment of one or more subsidiaries as being majority-owned, excepted from the Investment Company Act, with our determination that one or more of our other holdings do not constitute investment securities for purposes of the 40% test, or with our determinations as to the nature of the business in which we engage or the manner in which we hold ourselves out, we and/or one or more of our subsidiaries would need to adjust our operating strategies or assets in order for us to continue to pass the 40% test or register as an investment company, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us.  Moreover, we may be required to adjust our operating strategy and holdings, or to effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time or price at which, we would not otherwise choose, if there are changes in the laws or rules governing our Investment Company Act status or that of our subsidiaries, or if the SEC or its staff provides more specific or different guidance regarding the application of relevant provisions of, and rules under, the Investment Company Act.. 8. Table of Contents. If the SEC or a court of competent jurisdiction were to find that we were required, but failed, to register as an investment company in violation of the Investment Company Act, we would have to cease business activities, we would breach representations and warranties and/or be in default as to certain of our contracts and obligations, civil or criminal actions could be brought against us, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business, any or all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Returns on our investments may be limited by our investment guidelines and restrictions.. In 2013, we established investment guidelines and restrictions approved by the Investment Committee of our Board pursuant to the terms of the Investment Management Agreement (the \"Investment Management Agreement\") with FTC, as amended.  In 2016, we and FTC entered into an Amendment (the \"Amendment\") to the Investment Management Agreement.  Pursuant to the Amendment, we modified the investment guidelines and restrictions described in the Investment Management Agreement to (i) decrease from at least 50% to 25% the amount of the investment account that must be held in cash and cash equivalents, (ii) permit the investment account to be invested in common equity securities; however, common stock investments shall be limited to exchange-traded common equities, shall not exceed 5% ownership of a single issuer and, cumulatively, the common stock held in our investment portfolio shall not exceed $100.0 million market value, and (iii) provide that the aggregate market value of investments in common stock, preferred stock or other equity investments cannot exceed 25% of the market value of our investment portfolio at the time of purchase.  All other material investment guidelines remain the same, including restrictions that no more than 15% of the investment account be invested in securities of any one issuer (excluding the U.S. Government), and that any investment in any one issuer (excluding the U.S. Government) that exceeds 10%, but not 15%, requires the consent of at least two members of the Investment Committee.. These above limitations may restrict our ability to make certain investments and may negatively impact the return that we could otherwise receive from our investment account.  This could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.. Our future growth is dependent on transactions with strategic partners.  We may not be able to successfully (1) attract desirable strategic partners; (2) complete agreements with strategic partners; and/or (3) manage relationships with strategic partners going forward, any of which could adversely affect our business.. We may seek strategic partnerships to develop real estate, as well as explore active adult communities, capitalize on the potential of our commercial and industrial opportunities and maximize the value of our assets.  These strategic partnerships may bring development experience, industry expertise, financial resources, financing capabilities, brand recognition and credibility or other competitive assets.  We cannot assure, however, that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to locate desirable partners.  We also may not be able to attract partners who want to conduct business in desirable geographic locations and who have the assets, reputation or other characteristics that would optimize our development and asset management opportunities.. Once a strategic partner has been identified, actually reaching an agreement on a transaction may be difficult to complete and may take a considerable amount of time considering that negotiations require careful balancing of the parties' various objectives, assets, skills and interests.  A formal partnership may also involve special risks such as:. • our partner may take actions contrary to our instructions or requests, or contrary to our policies or objectives with respect to the real estate investments;. • our partner could experience financial difficulties, become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of capital contributions, which may delay construction or development of property or increase our financial commitment to the strategic partnership;. • we may disagree with our partner about decisions affecting the real estate investments or partnership, which could result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the property, which may delay important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and. • actions by our partner may subject property owned by the partnership to liabilities or have other adverse consequences.. A key complicating factor is that strategic partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours or that are influenced by factors unrelated to our business.  These competing interests lead to the difficult challenges of successfully managing the relationship and communication between strategic partners and monitoring the execution of the partnership plan.  We cannot assure that we will have sufficient resources, experience and/or skills to effectively manage our ongoing relationships with our strategic partners.  We may also be subject to adverse business consequences if the market reputation of a strategic partner deteriorates.  If we cannot successfully execute transactions with strategic partners, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected.. 9. Table of Contents. Losses in the fair value of our available-for-sale investments, and the concentration of our investment portfolio in any particular issuer, industry, group of related industries or geographic sector, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  In addition, our equity investments may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $281.7 million in our investment accounts.  Of this amount, we hold $170.4 million in cash equivalents, $66.4 million in corporate debt securities, $35.0 million in preferred stock investments and $9.9 million in U.S. Treasury securities.  Additionally, in 2016, we entered into an Amendment to our Investment Management Agreement which permits us to invest in common equity securities.  The market value of these investments is subject to change from period to period.  Our available-for-sale securities currently include investments in non-investment grade corporate debt securities and investments in non-investment grade preferred stock of four issuers.  Pursuant to our Investment Management Agreement with FTC, we could invest up to a total of 15% of the investment account in any one issuer as of the date of purchase.. We have exposure to credit risk associated with our available-for-sale investments, which include corporate debt securities, preferred stock investments and U.S. Treasury securities.  These instruments are also subject to price fluctuations as a result of changes in the financial market's assessment of issuer credit quality, increases in delinquency and default rates, changes in prevailing interest rates and other economic factors.  A downgrade of the U.S. government's credit rating could also decrease the value of our available-for-sale investments.. Losses in the fair value of our available-for-sale investments can negatively affect earnings if management determines that such securities are other-than-temporary impaired.  The evaluation of other-than-temporary impairment is based on various factors, including the financial condition, business prospects, industry and creditworthiness of the issuer, severity and length of time the securities were in a loss position, our ability and intent to hold investments until unrealized losses are recovered or until maturity.  If a decline in fair value is considered other-than-temporary, the carrying amount of the security is written down and the amount of the credit-related component is recognized in earnings.  Based on these factors, the unrealized loss related to our investments and restricted investments of $3.2 million was determined to be temporary at December 31, 2017.  During 2017, we determined that unrealized losses related to our corporate debt securities and preferred stock were other-than-temporary and recorded an impairment of $2.3 million for credit-related loss in investment income, net in our consolidated statements of operations.. Any losses in the fair value of our available-for-sale investments that are deemed to be other-than-temporary due to credit deterioration will result in us being required to record credit-related losses in our consolidated statements of operations.  In addition, as a result of the concentration of our corporate debt securities and preferred stock investments, the performance of our investments may be disproportionately affected by any adverse change in the financial condition of these issuers or the market value of any of the securities in our portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Furthermore, although common equity securities have historically generated higher average total returns than other types of securities over the long term, common equity securities also have experienced significantly more volatility in those returns.  The market price of common stock is subject to significant fluctuations due to a number of factors including the operating performance of companies and other risks that may affect specific economic sectors, industries or segments of the market, as well as adverse economic conditions generally, all of which are outside of our control.  Our equity investments may fail to appreciate and may decline in value or become worthless.  A substantial decline in the value of our equity investments would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 10. Table of Contents. We face risks associated with short-term liquid investments.. We continue to have significant cash balances that are invested in a variety of short-term investments that are intended to preserve principal value and maintain a high degree of liquidity while providing current income.  From time to time, these investments may include (either directly or indirectly):. • direct obligations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury;. • obligations issued or guaranteed by the U.S. federal government or its agencies;. • taxable municipal securities;. • obligations (including certificates of deposit) of banks and thrifts;. • commercial paper and other instruments consisting of short-term U.S. dollar denominated obligations issued by corporations and banks;. • repurchase agreements collateralized by corporate and asset-backed obligations;. • both registered and unregistered money market funds; and. • other highly rated short-term securities.. Investments in these securities and funds are not insured against loss of principal.  Under certain circumstances we may be required to redeem all or part of our investment, and our right to redeem some or all of our investment may be delayed or suspended.  In addition, there is no guarantee that our investments in these securities or funds will be redeemable at par value.  A decline in the value of our investment or a delay or suspension of our right to redeem may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Risks Related to our Current Business. Our results of operations may vary significantly from period to period which could adversely impact our stock price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Residential real estate sales tend to vary from period to period, particularly sales to homebuilders, who tend to buy multiple lots in sporadic transactions.  Commercial real estate projects are likewise subject to one-off sales and the development of specific projects depending on demand.. Moreover, as it relates to all of our residential and commercial land-use entitlements in hand or in process, we seek higher and better uses for our assets through a range of activities from strategic land planning and development, infrastructure improvements and promoting economic development in the regions where we operate; and therefore may explore the sale of assets opportunistically or when we believe that we can better deploy those resources.  As a consequence, there may be reporting periods in which we have no, or significantly less, revenue from residential or commercial real estate sales.. In December 2017 we sold our short term vacation rental management business.  Following the sale we no longer manage third party vacation rentals, but continue to manage vacation rental properties we own, which will cause our future operating results to vary from prior periods.  Furthermore, our resorts and leisure operations are affected by seasonal fluctuations.  Revenue from our resorts and leisure operations are typically higher in the second and third quarters; however, they can vary depending on the timing of holidays and school breaks, including spring break.. These variables have caused, and may continue to cause, our operating results to vary significantly from period to period, which could have an adverse impact on our stock price, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation and growth management initiatives that may restrict, make more costly or otherwise adversely impact our ability to develop our real estate investments or otherwise conduct our operations.. A large part of our business strategy is dependent on our ability to develop and manage real estate in Northwest Florida, including exploring opportunities in mixed-use and active adult communities and expanding the Port of Port St. Joe operations.  Approval to develop real property in Florida entails an extensive entitlements process involving multiple and overlapping regulatory jurisdictions and often requiring discretionary action by local government.  This process is often political, uncertain and may require significant exactions in order to secure approvals.  Real estate projects in Florida must generally comply with the provisions of the Local Government Comprehensive Planning and Land Development Regulation Act (the \"Growth Management Act\") and local land development regulations.  In addition, development projects that exceed certain specified regulatory thresholds require approval of a comprehensive Development of Regional Impact, or DRI, application.  Compliance with the Growth Management Act, local land development regulations and the DRI process is usually lengthy and costly and can be expected to materially affect our real estate development activities.. 11. Table of Contents. The Growth Management Act requires local governments to adopt comprehensive plans guiding and controlling future real property development in their respective jurisdictions and to evaluate, assess and keep those plans current.  Included in all comprehensive plans is a future land use map, which sets forth allowable land use development rights.  Some of our land has an \"agricultural\" or \"silviculture\" future land use designation and we are required to seek an amendment to the future land use map to develop real estate projects.  Approval of these comprehensive plan map amendments is highly discretionary.. All development orders and permits must be consistent with the comprehensive plan.  Each plan must address such topics as future land use and capital improvements and make adequate provision for a multitude of public services including transportation, schools, solid waste disposal, sewerage, potable water supply, drainage, affordable housing, open space, parks and others.  The local governments' comprehensive plans must also establish \"levels of service\" with respect to certain specified public facilities, including roads and schools, and services to residents.  In many areas, infrastructure funding has not kept pace with growth, causing facilities to operate below established levels of service.  Local governments are prohibited from issuing development orders or permits if the development will reduce the level of service for public facilities below the level of service established in the local government's comprehensive plan, unless the developer either sufficiently improves the services up front to meet the required level of service or provides financial assurances that the additional services will be provided as the project progresses.  In addition, local governments that fail to keep their plans current may be prohibited by law from amending their plans to allow for new development.. If any one or more of these factors were to occur, we may be unable to develop our real estate projects successfully or within the expected timeframes.  Changes in the Growth Management Act or the DRI review process or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of these laws or the enactment of new laws regarding the development of real property could lead to a decline in our ability to develop and market our communities successfully and to generate positive cash flow from these operations in a timely manner, which could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to service our demand and negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Our existing real estate investments are concentrated in Northwest Florida; therefore our long-term financial results are largely dependent on the economic growth of Northwest Florida.. The economic growth of Northwest Florida, where most of our land is located, is an important factor in creating demand for our products and services.  Our principal sources of revenue are (1) sales of lots or entitled land to homebuilders and others in connection with residential housing developments, (2) sales and leasing of commercial real estate, (3) revenue generated through our hotel, club membership and other leasing activities that are principally tourism related and (4) future revenue from multi-family and other leasing projects.  Consequently, demand for our products largely depends on the growth of the local economy.. We believe that the future economic growth of Northwest Florida will largely depend on the ability and willingness of state and local governments, in combination with the private sector, (1) to plan and complete significant infrastructure improvements in the region, such as new transportation hubs, roads, rail, pipeline, medical facilities and schools and (2) to attract companies offering high-quality, high salary jobs to large numbers of new employees.  If new businesses and new employees in Northwest Florida do not grow as anticipated, demand for residential and commercial real estate and demand to expand the Port of Port St. Joe will not meet our expectations and our future growth will be adversely affected.. Changes in the demographics affecting projected population growth in Florida, particularly Northwest Florida, including a decrease in the migration of Baby Boomers, could adversely affect our business.. Florida has experienced strong population growth in the past few decades, particularly during the real estate boom in the first half of the last decade.  However, a decline in the rate of migration into Florida could occur due to any one of a number of factors affecting Florida, including weak economic conditions, restrictive credit, the occurrence of hurricanes and increased costs of living.. The success of our communities will be dependent on strong migration and population expansion in our regions of development, primarily Northwest Florida.  We also believe that Baby Boomers (generally considered to be the generation born between 1946 and 1964) seeking retirement or vacation homes in Florida will remain important target customers for our real estate products in the future.  Florida's population growth could be negatively affected in the future by factors such as adverse economic conditions, the occurrence of natural or manmade disasters and the high cost of real estate, insurance and property taxes.  Furthermore, those persons considering moving to Florida may not view Northwest Florida as an attractive place to live or own a second home and may choose to live in another region of the state.  In addition, as an alternative to Florida, other states such as Georgia, North and South Carolina and Tennessee are increasingly becoming retirement destinations.  These states are attracting retiring Baby Boomers and the workforce population who may have otherwise considered moving to Florida.  If Florida, especially Northwest Florida, experiences an extended period of slow growth, or even net out-migration, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would likely suffer.. 12. Table of Contents. Mortgage financing issues, including lack of supply of mortgage loans, tightened lending requirements and possible future increases in interest rates, could reduce demand for our products.. Many purchasers of our real estate products obtain mortgage loans to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price, or they may need to obtain mortgage loans to finance the construction costs of homes to be built on homesites purchased from us.  Also, our homebuilder customers depend on retail purchasers who rely on mortgage financing.  Many mortgage lenders and investors in mortgage loans experienced severe financial difficulties arising from losses incurred on sub-prime and other loans originated before the downturn in the real estate market.  As a result, the mortgage industry remains under scrutiny and continues to face the challenges of increased regulation at federal, state and local levels.  Because of these challenges, the supply of mortgage products has been constrained, and the eligibility requirements for borrowers have been tightened.. Constraints on the mortgage lending industry could adversely affect potential purchasers of our products, including our homebuilder customers, thus having a negative effect on demand in our communities.. While interest rates for home mortgage loans have generally remained low, mortgage interest rates could increase in the future, which could adversely affect the demand for residential real estate.  In addition to residential real estate, increased interest rates and restrictions in the availability of credit could also negatively impact sales or development of our commercial properties or other land we offer for sale.  If interest rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance real estate purchases is adversely affected, our sales, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be negatively affected.. We have significant operations and properties in Florida that could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, manmade disasters, severe weather conditions or other significant disruptions.. Our corporate headquarters and our properties are located in Florida, where major hurricanes have occurred.  Because of its location between the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, Florida is particularly susceptible to the occurrence of hurricanes.  Depending on where any particular hurricane makes landfall, our developments in Florida, especially our coastal properties in Northwest Florida, could experience significant, if not catastrophic, damage.  Such damage could materially delay sales or lessen demand for our residential or commercial real estate in affected communities and lessen demand for our resorts and leisure operations and leasing operations.  If our corporate headquarters facility is damaged or destroyed, we may have difficulty performing certain corporate and operational functions.. In addition to hurricanes, the occurrence of other natural disasters and climate conditions in Florida, such as tornadoes, floods, fires, unusually heavy or prolonged rain, droughts and heat waves, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop and sell properties or realize income from our projects.  The occurrence of these natural disasters could also have a material adverse effect on our forestry business, if timber inventory is destroyed.  Furthermore, an increase in sea levels due to long-term global warming could have a material adverse effect on our coastal properties and forestry business.  The occurrence of natural disasters and the threat of adverse climate changes could also have a long-term negative effect on the attractiveness of Florida as a location for primary or resort residences and as a location for new employers that can create high-quality jobs needed to spur growth in Northwest Florida.. Additionally, we are susceptible to manmade disasters or disruptions, such as oil spills like the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, acts of terrorism, power outages and communications failures.  If a hurricane, natural disaster, manmade disaster or other significant disruption occurs, we may experience disruptions to our operations and damage to our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Furthermore, any adverse change in the economic climate of Florida, or our regions of the state, and any adverse change in the political or regulatory climate of Florida, or the counties where our land is located could adversely affect our real estate development activities.  Ultimately, our ability to execute our business strategy may decline as a result of weak economic conditions or restrictive regulations.. 13. Table of Contents. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate to cover any losses we may incur.. We maintain insurance on our properties, including property, liability, fire, flood and extended coverage.  However, we do not insure our timber assets and we self-insure home warranty claims.  Additionally, our insurance for hurricanes is capped at $50.0 million per named storm and is subject to deductibles.  We use our discretion when determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibles for insurance.  These terms are determined based on retaining an acceptable level of risk at a reasonable cost.  This may result in insurance coverage that in the event of a substantial loss would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost investment.  Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also may make it unfeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a facility after it has been damaged or destroyed.  Under such circumstances, we may not receive insurance proceeds or the insurance proceeds we receive may not fully cover business interruptions or losses and our earnings, liquidity, or capital resources could be adversely affected.. Increases in property insurance premiums and decreases in availability of homeowner property insurance in Florida could reduce customer demand for homes and homesites in our developments.. Homeowner property insurance companies doing business in Florida have reacted to previous hurricanes by increasing premiums, requiring higher deductibles, reducing limits, restricting coverage, imposing exclusions, refusing to insure certain property owners, and in some instances, ceasing insurance operations in the state.  It is uncertain what effect these actions may have on future property insurance availability and rates in the state.. Furthermore, Florida's state-owned property insurance company, Citizens Property Insurance Corp., underwrites homeowner property insurance.  If there were to be a catastrophic hurricane or series of hurricanes to hit Florida, the exposure of the state government to property insurance claims could place extreme stress on state finances.. The high costs of property insurance premiums in Florida could deter potential customers from purchasing a homesite in one of our developments or make Northwest Florida less attractive to new employers that can create high quality jobs needed to increase growth in the region, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. A decline in consumers' discretionary spending or a change in consumer preferences could reduce our sales and harm our business.. Our real estate and resorts and leisure segments' revenue ultimately depends on consumer discretionary spending, which is influenced by factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the availability of discretionary income and credit, weather, consumer confidence and unemployment levels.  Any material decline in the amount of consumer discretionary spending could reduce our revenue and harm our business.  These economic and market conditions, combined with continuing difficulties in the credit markets and the resulting pressures on liquidity, may also place a number of our key customers under financial stress, which could adversely affect our occupancy rates and our profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Downturns of the real estate market in Northwest Florida could adversely affect our operations.. Demand for real estate is sensitive to changes in economic conditions over which we have no control, including the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, the availability of financing and interest rate levels.  In addition, the real estate market is subject to downturns, and our business is especially sensitive to economic conditions in Northwest Florida, where many of our developments are located, and, more broadly, the Southeast region of the United States, which in the past has produced a high percentage of customers for the resort and seasonal vacation products in our Northwest Florida communities.  If market conditions do not continue to improve as anticipated or were to worsen, the demand for our resort and real estate products could decline, negatively impacting our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Recent tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive or less attractive.. Historically, significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage interest expense and real estate taxes, generally have been deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income as itemized deductions.  The recently enacted tax law changes by the Federal government may result in the elimination of some deductions, or limiting the tax benefit of deductions, with regard to people with incomes above specified levels.  These changes in tax laws could increase the after-tax cost of owning a home, which is likely to adversely impact the demand for homes and could reduce the prices for which we can sell homesites, particularly in higher priced communities.. 14. Table of Contents. Significant competition could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our business is highly competitive and fragmented.  We compete with other local, regional and national real estate leasing and development companies, some of which may have greater financial, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. Competition from other real estate leasing and development companies may adversely affect our ability to attract tenants and lease our commercial properties, attract purchasers and sell residential and commercial real estate and attract and retain experienced real estate leasing and development personnel.  In addition, we face competition for tenants from other retail shopping centers and commercial facilities.. A number of highly competitive companies participate in the private resort industry.  Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain guests and club members depends on our success in distinguishing the quality and value of our products and services from those offered by others.. The forestry business is also highly competitive in terms of price and quality.  Wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non-wood and engineered wood products.  There can be no assurance we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are dependent upon homebuilders as customers, but our ability to attract homebuilder customers and their ability or willingness to satisfy their purchase commitments may be uncertain.. We are highly dependent upon our relationships with homebuilders to be the primary customers for our homesites and to provide construction services in our residential developments.  The homebuilder customers that have already committed to purchase homesites from us could decide to reduce, delay or cancel their existing commitments to purchase homesites in our developments.  From time to time we finance real estate sales with mortgage note receivables.  If these homebuilders fail to pay their debts to us or delay paying us, it would reduce our anticipated cash flows.  Homebuilders also may not view our developments as desirable locations for homebuilding operations, or they may choose to purchase land from other sellers.  Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We are exposed to risks associated with real estate development that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our real estate development activities entail risks that could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including:. • construction delays or cost overruns, which may increase project development costs;. • claims for construction defects after property has been developed, including claims by purchasers and property owners' associations;. • an inability to obtain required governmental permits and authorizations;. • an inability to secure tenants necessary to support commercial projects; and. • compliance with building codes and other local regulations.. Our leasing projects may not yield anticipated returns, which could harm our operating results, reduce cash flow, or the ability to sell commercial assets.. Our business strategy includes the development and leasing of commercial properties and management of commercial properties and assets for sale.  These commercial developments may not be as successful as expected due to leasing related risks, including the risk that we may not be able to lease new properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or obtain lease rates that are consistent with our projections, as well as the risks generally associated with real estate development.  Additionally, development of leasing projects involves the risk associated with the significant time lag between commencement and completion of the project.  This time lag subjects us to greater risks relating to fluctuations in the general economy, our ability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms, if at all, our ability to achieve projected rental rates, the pace that we will be able to lease to new tenants, higher than estimated construction costs (including labor and material costs), and delays in the completion of projects because of, among other factors, inclement weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receiving zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters.  If any one of these factors negatively impacts our leasing projects we may not yield anticipated returns, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and ability to sell commercial assets.. 15. Table of Contents. We face potential adverse effects from the loss of commercial tenants.. A component of our business strategy is the development and leasing of commercial properties.  The default, financial distress, or bankruptcy of a major tenant may adversely affect the income produced by our commercial properties.  If one or more of our tenants, particularly an anchor tenant, declares bankruptcy, defaults or voluntarily vacates from the leased premises, we may be unable to re-lease such space or to re-lease it on comparable or more favorable terms.  Additionally, the loss of an anchor tenant may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  This could adversely affect our properties and growth.. We provide a limited guarantee of the debt for our Pier Park North JV, and may in the future enter into similar agreements, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We have agreed to provide a limited guarantee in connection with our Pier Park North JV, and may in the future agree to similar agreements.  In October 2015, the Pier Park North JV refinanced its construction loan and entered into a $48.2 million loan (the \"Refinanced Loan\") that matures in November 2025.  As of December 31, 2017, $47.3 million was outstanding on the Refinanced Loan.  Pursuant to the Refinanced Loan, we have provided a limited guarantee in favor of the lender that covers losses arising as a result of: (i) tenant security deposits; (ii) tenant rents; (iii) costs and expenses related to any environmental clean-up; (iv) liability for fraud or material breach of warranty with respect to the financing; (v) unpaid real estate taxes assessed against the property;  (vi) failure to maintain required insurance; (vii) foreclosure of the security instrument; or (viii) failure of the joint venture to comply with certain covenants in the agreement.  In addition, the guarantee can become full recourse in the case of any fraud or intentional misrepresentation by the joint venture; any voluntary transfer or encumbrance of the property in violation of the due-on-sale clause in the security instrument; upon commencement of voluntary bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings; and upon breach of covenants in the security instrument.  If we were to become obligated to perform on the guarantee, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Environmental and other regulations may have an adverse effect on our business.. Our properties are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulations and restrictions that may impose significant limitations on our development ability.  In most cases, approval to develop requires multiple permits, which involve a long, uncertain and costly regulatory process.  Our land holdings contain jurisdictional wetlands, some of which may be unsuitable for development or prohibited from development by law.  Development approval most often requires mitigation for impacts to wetlands that require land to be conserved at a disproportionate ratio versus the actual wetlands impacted and approved for development.  Some of our property is undeveloped land located in areas where development may have to avoid, minimize or mitigate for impacts to the natural habitats of various protected wildlife or plant species.  Additionally, much of our property is in coastal areas that usually have a more restrictive permitting burden or must address issues such as coastal high hazard, hurricane evacuation, floodplains and dune protection.. In addition, our current or past ownership, operation and leasing of real property, and our current or past transportation and other operations, are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws and other regulations. The provisions and enforcement of these environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in, among other things, the following:. • civil penalties;. • remediation expenses;. • natural resource damages;. • personal injury damages;. • potential injunctions;. • cease and desist orders; and. • criminal penalties.. In addition, some of these environmental laws impose strict liability, which means that we may be held liable for any environmental damage on our property regardless of fault.. 16. Table of Contents. Some of our past and present real property, particularly properties used in connection with our previous transportation and papermill operations, were involved in the storage, use or disposal of hazardous substances that have contaminated and may in the future contaminate the environment.  We may bear liability for this contamination and for the costs of cleaning up a site at which we have disposed of, or to which we have transported, hazardous substances.  The presence of hazardous substances on a property may also adversely affect our ability to sell or develop the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral.. Changes in laws or the interpretation thereof, new enforcement of laws, the identification of new facts or the failure of other parties to perform remediation at our current or former facilities could lead to new or greater liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. From time to time, we may be subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, which could impair our financial results of operations.. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business, our operations and our position as an owner and operator of real estate and related ventures.  An adverse outcome in any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, our results of operations or impose additional restrictions or limitations on us.  In addition, regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, these proceedings could result in substantial costs and may require that we devote substantial resources to defend our Company.  For example, in 2015, we fully resolved an SEC investigation regarding our policies and practices concerning impairment of investment in real estate assets principally as reflected in our financial results for 2010, 2009 and prior periods.  The settlement and all allegations related to actions taken prior to the 2011 replacement of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.  None of the SEC's allegations, findings, sanctions, remedies or orders related to any of our current directors or controlling shareholders.  Without admitting or denying any factual allegations, we consented to the SEC's issuance of an administrative order.. Pursuant to the order, we agreed to pay penalties, disgorgements and interest of approximately $3.5 million.  In connection with the SEC investigation we also incurred significant legal expenses and devoted substantial management resources to its resolution.  If we were to become subject to other litigation or regulatory proceedings in the future, it could impair our financial results of operations.  In addition, as a result of the order, we became an \"ineligible issuer\" under Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933, which means that for a period of three years after the order, we will not be able to use certain streamlined registration procedures, and we will be unable to rely on an exemption from registration for the sale of securities under Regulation D for a period of five years after the order, both of which could make it harder for us to sell shares.  Further, we will be unable to avail ourselves of the statutory safe harbor for forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for a period of three years after the order.. In addition, the land use approval processes we must follow to ultimately develop our projects have become increasingly complex.  Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge the proposed plans and approvals.  As a result, the prospect of third-party challenges to planned real estate developments provides additional uncertainties in real estate development planning and entitlements.  Third-party challenges in the form of litigation could result in denial of the right to develop, or would, by their nature, adversely affect the length of time and the cost required to obtain the necessary approvals.  In addition, adverse decisions arising from any litigation would increase the costs and length of time to obtain ultimate approval of a project and could adversely affect the design, scope, plans and profitability of a project.. Limitations on the access to the airport runway at the Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport may have an adverse effect on the demand for our VentureCrossings land adjacent to the airport.. Our land donation agreement with the airport authority and the deed for the airport land provide access rights to the airport runway from our adjacent lands.  We subsequently entered into an access agreement with the airport authority that provides access to the airport runway.  Under the terms of the access agreement, we are subject to certain requirements of the airport authority, including but not limited to the laws administered by the Federal Aviation Administration (the \"FAA\"), the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (the \"FDEP\"), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the \"Corps of Engineers\"), and Bay County.  Should security measures at airports become more restrictive in the future due to circumstances beyond our control, FAA regulations governing these access rights may impose additional limitations that could significantly impair or restrict access rights.. In addition, we are required to obtain environmental permits from each of the Corps of Engineers and the FDEP in order to develop the land necessary for access from our planned areas of commercial development to the airport runway.  Such permits are often subject to a lengthy agency administrative approval process, and there can be no assurance that such permits will be issued, or that they will be issued in a timely manner.. 17. Table of Contents. We believe that runway access is a valuable attribute of some of our VentureCrossings land adjacent to the airport, and the failure to maintain such access, the imposition of significant restrictions on such access, or any associated permitting delays or issues, could adversely affect the demand for such lands and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Weather and other natural conditions and regulatory requirements may limit our ability to market and sell our timber assets, which could adversely affect our operations.. Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, access limitations (for example, restrictions on access to timberlands due to prolonged wet conditions) and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict our ability to market and sell our timber assets.  In addition, our timber assets are subject to damage by fire, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, flooding and other natural disasters.  Changes in global climate conditions could intensify one or more of these factors.  Although damage from such natural causes usually is localized and affects only a limited percentage of the timber assets, there can be no assurance that any damage affecting our timberlands will in fact be so limited.  We do not maintain insurance coverage with respect to damage to our timberlands.  Our results of operations and cash flows may therefore be materially adversely affected if we are unable to sell our timber assets at adequate levels or if demand decreases due to an increase in our prices as a result of any of these factors.. We face risks associated with third-party service providers, which could negatively impact our profitability.. We rely on various third-parties to conduct the day-to-day operations of our resorts and club operations.  Failure of such third parties to adequately perform their contracted services could negatively impact our ability to retain customers.  As a result, any such failure could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Company or Common Stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile.. The market price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange has been volatile.  We may continue to experience significant volatility in the market price of our common stock.  Numerous factors could have a significant effect on the price of our common stock, including:. •announcements of fluctuations in our operating results;. •other announcements concerning our Company or business, including acquisitions or litigation announcements;. •changes in market conditions in Northwest Florida or the real estate or real estate development industry in general;. •changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; and. •less volume due to reduced shares outstanding.. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years, which have sometimes been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance.  Volatility in the market price of our common stock could cause shareholders to lose some or all of their investment in our common stock.. Fairholme has the ability to influence major corporate decisions, including decisions that require the approval of stockholders, and its interest in our business may conflict with yours.. Bruce R. Berkowitz is the Chief Investment Officer of FCM, a director of FTC and the Chairman of our Board.  Mr. Berkowitz is also the Manager of, and controls entities that own and control, Fairholme Holdings, which wholly owns FCM and FTC.  Cesar Alvarez also serves as a director of the Fairholme Fund, a director of FTC and is a member of our Board.  In addition, Howard Frank serves as a director of the Fairholme Fund and is a member of our Board.  As of December 31, 2017, clients of FCM and FTC beneficially owned approximately 42.33% of the Company's common stock and Fairholme, including Mr. Berkowitz and clients of FCM and FTC, collectively beneficially owned 43.95% of our outstanding common stock.  Accordingly, Fairholme is in a position to influence:. • the vote of most matters submitted to our shareholders, including any merger, consolidation or sale of all or   substantially all of our assets;. • the nomination of individuals to our Board; and. • a change in our control.. These factors may discourage, delay or prevent a takeover attempt that shareholders might consider in their best interests or that might result in shareholders receiving a premium for their common stock.  Our articles of incorporation and certain provisions of Florida law contain anti-takeover provisions that may make it more difficult to effect a change in our control.. 18. Table of Contents. In addition, Fairholme is in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and may hold, and may, from time to time in the future, acquire interests in or provide advice to businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business.  Fairholme may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.. Furthermore, future sales of our common stock by Fairholme, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price.. The loss of the services of our key management, personnel or our ability to recruit staff could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff.  One of our objectives is to develop and maintain a strong management group at all levels.  At any given time, we could lose the services of key executives and other employees.  The loss of services of any of our key employees could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to execute our business strategy.  In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel.. Changes in our income tax estimates could materially impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to estimate our income taxes.  Our estimates are based on our interpretation of federal and state tax laws.  We estimate our actual current tax due and assess temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.  The temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets.  Adjustments may be required by a change in assessment of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes due to audit adjustments by federal and state tax authorities, and changes in tax laws and rates.  To the extent adjustments are required in any given period, we include the adjustments in the deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements.  These adjustments could materially impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We may not be able to utilize our net state operating loss carryforwards.. We have suffered losses, for tax and financial statement purposes, which generated significant state net operating loss carryforwards.  These state net operating loss carryforwards may be used against taxable income in future periods; however, we will not receive any tax benefits with regard to tax losses incurred except to the extent we have taxable income in the remaining net operating loss carryforward period.. Based on the timing of reversals of our existing taxable temporary differences and our history of losses, management does not believe that the requirements to realize the benefits of certain of our deferred tax assets have been met; therefore, we have maintained a valuation allowance against a portion of our deferred tax assets in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017.  Unless we generate more income in the future than presently estimated, we will not be able to utilize all of our state net operating loss carryforwards.. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), new legislation that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  The Tax Act, among other things, contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.  In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the Tax Act.  The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse.. 19. Table of Contents. We have had to take significant impairments of the carrying value of our investments in real estate and a decline in real estate values or continuing operating losses in our operating properties could result in additional impairments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Over the past five years, we have recorded impairment charges of $6.2 million related to real estate investments.  We have approximately $332.6 million of real estate investments recorded on our books that may be subject to impairment.  If market conditions were to deteriorate, our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows could fall below their carrying value and we could be required to take further impairments, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in accounting pronouncements could adversely affect our reported operating results, in addition to the reported financial performance of our tenants.. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  Uncertainties posed by various initiatives of accounting standard-setting by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and the SEC, which create and interpret applicable accounting standards for U.S. companies, may change the financial accounting and reporting standards or their interpretation and application of these standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements.  Changes include, but are not limited to, changes in lease accounting and the adoption of accounting standards that establish the principles used to recognize revenue for all entities.  These changes and others could have a material impact on our reported financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in potentially material restatements of prior period financial statements.. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits.. We face risks associated with security breaches or disruptions, whether through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to emails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems, and other significant disruptions of our networks and related systems.  For a number of years, we have been increasing our reliance on computers and digital technology.  While all of our business and internal employment records require the collection of digital information, our resorts and leisure segment, in particular, requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers, as such information is entered into, processed, summarized, and reported by the various information systems we use.  All of these activities give rise to material cyber risks and potential costs and consequences that cannot be estimated or predicted with any certainty.  The integrity and protection of our customer, employee and other company data, is critical to us. Although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging.  Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.  Accordingly, we and our service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us and our service providers to entirely mitigate this risk.  Our failure to maintain the security of the data, which we are required to protect, including via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and personal information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings and other severe financial and business implications.. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements, or misrepresentations.  While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives at all times.  Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting, which may occur in the future, could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.. 20. Table of Contents"
