[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Set forth below are risks and uncertainties relating to our business and the ownership of our securities. These risks and uncertainties may lead to outcomes that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully consider each of these risks and uncertainties and all of the information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and its exhibits, including our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017, which are included in a separate section at the end of this report beginning on page 62.. SDOI. We may not be successful in identifying any additional suitable acquisition or investment opportunities.. The successful implementation of our business strategy depends on our ability to identify and consummate suitable acquisitions or other investment opportunities. However, to date we have only been able to identify a limited number of such opportunities. There is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or consummating any additional suitable acquisitions and certain acquisition opportunities may be limited or prohibited by applicable regulatory regimes. Even if we do complete other acquisitions or business combinations, there is no assurance that they will be successful in enhancing our business or our financial condition. In addition, other acquisitions could divert a substantial amount of our management time and may be difficult for us to integrate, which could adversely affect management's ability to identify and consummate other investment opportunities. The failure to identify or successfully integrate future acquisitions and investment opportunities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Because we face significant competition for acquisition and investment opportunities, including from numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours, it may be difficult for us to fully execute our business strategy. We expect to encounter intense competition for acquisition and investment opportunities from both strategic investors and other entities having a business objective similar to ours, such as private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), blank check companies, and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses that we may intend to acquire. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, or greater access to capital, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. These factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully completing future acquisitions and investments.. In addition, while we believe that there are numerous target businesses that we could potentially acquire or invest in, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing acquisition and investment opportunities.. Future acquisitions or investments could involve unknown risks that could harm our business and adversely affect our financial condition.. We expect to become a diversified holding company with interests in a variety of industries and market sectors. Future acquisitions that we consummate will involve unknown risks, some of which will be particular to the industry in which the acquisition target operates. We may be unable to adequately address the financial, legal and operational risks raised by such acquisitions, especially if we are unfamiliar with the industry in which we invest. The realization of any unknown risks could prevent or limit us from realizing the projected benefits of the acquisitions, which could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, our financial condition and results of operations, will be subject to the specific risks applicable to any company in which we invest.. There can be no assurance that our due diligence investigations will identify every matter that could have a material adverse effect on SDOI.. We intend to conduct extensive business, financial and legal due diligence in connection with the evaluation of future acquisition and investment opportunities. However, there can be no assurance that our due diligence investigations will identify every matter that could have a material adverse effect on the acquisition or investment target. Accordingly, there may be matters involving the business and operations of investment targets that we do not identify during our due diligence. To the extent we consummate any acquisition or investment and any of these issues arise, the business and operations of the investment target could be adversely affected, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Resources could be consumed in researching acquisition or investment targets that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or invest in another business.. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific acquisition or investment target and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and other advisors. If a decision is made not to consummate a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific acquisition or investment target, we may fail to consummate the investment or acquisition for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to consummate other acquisitions and investments.. 15. Table of Contents. We may issue notes or other debt securities or otherwise incur substantial debt, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition.. We may choose to incur substantial debt to complete a business combination or acquisition or otherwise. The incurrence of debt could result in:.   default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination or acquisition are insufficient to repay our debt obligations;.   acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant;.   our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand;.   our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding;.   our inability to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock;.   using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our Class A Common Stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;.   limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate;.   increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and.   limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt.. We may require additional capital in the future, and you may incur dilution to your stock holdings in connection with such financings.. If we require additional capital, we may attempt to raise it through a variety of strategies, including the issuance and sale of additional shares of our Class A Common Stock or preferred stock. Issuances of additional shares of our Class A Common stock or preferred stock in the future, whether in connection with a rights offering, follow-on offering, private placement or otherwise, would dilute existing stockholders and may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock.. In the event we issue subscription rights to purchase shares of our Class A Common Stock, stockholders who do not fully exercise their rights should expect that they will, at the completion of the offer, own a smaller proportional interest in us than would otherwise be the case if they fully exercised their rights. We cannot state precisely the amount of any such dilution in share ownership because we do not know at this time what proportion of the shares will be purchased as a result of the offer. Such dilution could be substantial.. We may issue additional common shares or preferred shares to complete our business combinations or as consideration of an acquisition of an operating business or other acquisition or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of a business combination or acquisition, which would dilute the interests of our stockholders and could present other risks.. The Sixth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of SDOI authorizes the issuance of up to 330,000,000 shares of Common Stock, 300,000,000 of which are designated as Class A Common Stock and 30,000,000 of which are designated as Class B Common Stock, and 500,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock. We currently have more than 310,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of our Common Stock available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common or preferred stock to complete a business combination or acquisition or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of a business combination or acquisition. The issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock:.   may significantly dilute the equity interest of our stockholders;.   may subordinate the rights of holders of our Class A Common Stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our Class A Common Stock;. 16. Table of Contents.   could cause a change in control of SDOI if a substantial number of shares of our Class A Common Stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any; and.   may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A Common Stock.. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to consummate future investments or acquisitions or to fund the operations and growth of an investment or acquisition, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular investment or acquisition.. We may need to obtain additional financing in order to consummate future acquisitions and investment opportunities. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. This risk is exacerbated by the volatility the global credit markets experiences from time to time. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular investment or acquisition, we may be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon the investment or acquisition. In addition, if we consummate an acquisition or investment, the company we acquire or invest in may require additional financing to fund continuing operations and/or growth. The failure by such company to secure additional financing if required could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of such business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.. Our investments in any future joint investment could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a partner's financial condition and disputes between us and our partners.. We may in the future co-invest with third parties through partnerships or joint investment in an investment or acquisition target or other entities. In such circumstances, we may not be in a position to exercise significant decision-making authority regarding a target business, partnership or other entity if we do not own a substantial majority of the equity interests of the target. These investments may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners might become insolvent or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. In addition, partners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such partners may also seek similar acquisition targets as us and we may be in competition with them for such business combination targets. Disputes between us and partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our costs and expenses and divert a substantial amount of our management's time and effort away from our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners might result in subjecting assets owned by the partnership to additional risk. We may also, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third-party partners. For example, in the future we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a partnership or other entity. Such a guarantee may be on a joint and several basis with our partner in which case we may be liable in the event such party defaults on its guaranty obligation.. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, investment, holding and disposition of target companies and assets.. We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions or investments, holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets and disposing of target companies or their assets.. We may make other significant investments in publicly traded companies. Changes in the market prices of the securities we own, particularly during times of volatility in security prices, can have a material impact on the value of SDOI's portfolio and equity.. We may make other significant investments in publicly traded companies. We will either consolidate our investments and subsidiaries or report such investments under the equity method of accounting. Changes in the market prices of the publicly traded securities of these entities could have a material impact on an investor's perception of the aggregate value of our company portfolio and on the value of the assets that we can pledge to creditors for debt financing, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt or finance future acquisitions.. We may lack operational control over certain companies in which we invest.. We may make certain strategic investments in various businesses without acquiring all or a majority ownership stake in those businesses. To the extent that such investments represent a minority or passive stake in any business, we may have little to no participation, input or control over the management, policies, and operations of such business. Further, we may lack sufficient ownership of voting securities to impact, without the vote of additional equity holders, any matters submitted to stockholders or members of such business for a vote.. There is inherent risk in making minority equity investments in companies over which we have little to no control. Without control of the management and decision-making of these businesses, we cannot control their direction, strategy, policies and business plans, and we may be powerless to improve any declines in their performance, operating results and financial condition. If any company in which we are a minority investor suffers adverse effects, it may not be able to continue as a going business concern, and we may lose our entire investment.. 17. Table of Contents. Our ability to dispose of equity interests we acquire may be limited by restrictive stockholder agreements and by the federal securities laws.. When we acquire less than 100% of the equity interests of a company, our investment may be illiquid and we may be subject to restrictive terms of agreements with other equity holders. Our holdings of shares may not be registered under the Securities Act and may be restricted securities under the Securities Act, and our ability to sell such securities could be limited to sales pursuant to: (i) an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the resale of those securities, (ii) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which, among other things, requires a specified holding period and limits the manner and volume of sales, or (iii) another applicable exemption under the Securities Act. The inability to efficiently sell restricted securities when desired or necessary may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt.. Any potential acquisition or investment in a foreign company or a company with significant foreign operations, may subject us to additional risks.. If we acquire or invest in a foreign business or a company with significant foreign operations, we will be subject to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, for example, currency fluctuations, complex foreign regulatory regimes, punitive tariffs, unstable local tax policies, trade embargoes, risks related to shipment of raw materials and finished goods across national borders, restrictions on the movement of funds across national borders and cultural and language differences. If realized, some of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity, and can have an adverse effect on our ability to service the notes we expect to issue and any additional debt we incur.. Standard General L.P. and its affiliates hold a majority of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock and have interests which may conflict with interests of our other stockholders.. Standard General L.P. and its affiliates, or the SG Parties, hold a significant majority of our total voting power. Therefore, the SG Parties have a controlling influence over our business and affairs and have the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors, the removal of directors, and approval of significant corporate transactions such as amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, mergers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The SG Parties could cause corporate actions to be taken even if the interests of these actions conflict with or are not aligned with the interests of our other stockholders. Section 122(17) of the DGCL provides that a corporation may renounce, in its certificate of incorporation or by action of its board of directors, any interest or expectancy of the corporation in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, specified business opportunities or specified classes or categories of business opportunities that are being presented to the corporation or one or more of its officers, directors, or stockholders. In accordance with and to the fullest extent permitted by Section 122(17) of the DGCL, the Company has (i) renounced any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered the opportunity to participate in, any potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity, including any right, interest, or expectancy regarding any such particular investments or activities which may be a corporate opportunity undertaken by the SG Parties, as the controlling stockholders of the Company, each of their affiliates and each of the respective officers, directors, agents, members, partners and employees of the foregoing; any person or entity (other than the Company and any person or entity that is controlled by the Company) for which any of the foregoing serves as a director, officer, partner, member, manager, representative, agent, adviser, fiduciary or employee and members of the board of directors of the Company who are designated by or affiliated with any of the foregoing (each of the foregoing an Identified Person), (ii) determined that no Identified Person shall be obligated to communicate, offer, or present any potential transaction, matter, or opportunity to the Company even if such potential transaction, matter, or opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Company, could be taken by the Company and (iii) waived any claim that an Identified Person is liable to the Company or its stockholders for any breach of fiduciary duty by solely by reason of the fact that such Identified Person pursues or acquires any such corporate opportunity for itself, directs such corporate opportunity to another person, or does not communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to the Company.. Future acquisitions and dispositions may not require a stockholder vote and may be material to us.. Any future acquisitions could be material in size and scope, and our stockholders and potential investors may have virtually no substantive information about any new business upon which to base a decision whether to invest in our Class A Common Stock. In any event, depending upon the size and structure of any acquisitions, stockholders may not have the opportunity to vote on the transaction, and may not have access to any information about any new business until the transaction is completed and we file a report with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, disclosing the nature of such transaction and/or business. As a result, our stockholders may be dependent on the broad discretion and judgment of our board of directors in connection with the application of our capital and the selection of acquisition or investment targets.  Even if a stockholder vote is required for any of our future acquisitions, under our Sixth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, the SG Parties, as long as they continue to own a majority of our outstanding Class A Common Stock, may approve such transaction by written consent without our other stockholders having an opportunity to vote on such transaction.. 18. Table of Contents. Our officers, directors, stockholders and their respective affiliates may have a pecuniary interest in certain transactions in which we are involved, and may also compete with us.. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, stockholders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such parties may have an interest in certain transactions such as strategic partnerships or joint ventures in which we are involved, and may also compete with us.. In the course of their other business activities, our officers and directors may become aware of investment and acquisition opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to SDOI as well as the other entities with which they are affiliated. Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented.. Our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to our officers' and directors' existing affiliations with other entities, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities in addition to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. To the extent that our officers and directors identify business combination opportunities that may be suitable for entities to which they have pre-existing fiduciary obligations, or are presented with such opportunities in their capacities as fiduciaries to such entities, they may be required to honor their pre-existing fiduciary obligations to such entities. Accordingly, they may not present business combination opportunities to us that otherwise may be attractive to such entities unless the other entities have declined to accept such opportunities. As noted above, Section 122(17) of the DGCL provides that a corporation may renounce, in its certificate of incorporation or by action of its board of directors, any interest or expectancy of the corporation in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, specified business opportunities or specified classes or categories of business opportunities that are being presented to the corporation or one or more of its officers, directors, or stockholders. In accordance with and to the fullest extent permitted by Section 122(17) of the DGCL, pursuant to a resolution adopted by our board of directors, the Company has (i) renounced any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered the opportunity to participate in, any potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity, including any right, interest, or expectancy regarding any such particular investments or activities which may be a corporate opportunity undertaken by the SG Parties, as the controlling stockholders of the Company, each of their affiliates and each of the respective officers, directors, agents, members, partners and employees of the foregoing; any person or entity (other than the Company and any person or entity that is controlled by the Company) for which any of the foregoing serves as a director, officer, partner, member, manager, representative, agent, adviser, fiduciary or employee and members of the board of directors of the Company who are designated by or affiliated with any of the foregoing (each of the foregoing an Identified Person), (ii) determined that no Identified Person shall be obligated to communicate, offer, or present any potential transaction, matter, or opportunity to the Company even if such potential transaction, matter, or opportunity is of a character that, if presented to the Company, could be taken by the Company and (iii) waived any claim that an Identified Person is liable to the Company or its stockholders for any breach of fiduciary duty by solely by reason of the fact that such Identified Person pursues or acquires any such corporate opportunity for itself, directs such corporate opportunity to another person, or does not communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to the Company.. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and may experience difficulties in managing growth.. We currently have limited operating assets at this time and have only a small number of employees as of the date of this filing. If we proceed with other acquisitions or investments, we expect to require additional personnel and enhanced information technology systems. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees and implement enhanced informational technology systems. Our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. Future growth will also increase our costs and expenses and limit our liquidity.. From time to time we may be subject to litigation for which we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure and which, if adversely determined, may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.. We may become party to legal proceedings that are considered to be either ordinary or routine litigation incidental to our or their current or prior businesses or not material to our consolidated financial position or liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any litigation in which we may become involved, or that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any potential losses. To the extent that we sustain losses from any pending litigation which are not reserved or otherwise provided for or insured against, our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition could be adversely affected.. 19. Table of Contents. As a holding company our only material assets are our equity interests in our operating subsidiaries, and our principal source of revenue and cash flow is distributions from our subsidiaries.. As a holding company our only material assets are our equity interests in our operating subsidiaries, and our principal source of revenue and cash flow is distributions from our subsidiaries. Thus our ability to service our debt, finance acquisitions and pay dividends to our stockholders in the future will be dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to make upstream cash distributions to us. Our subsidiaries will be separate legal entities, and although they may be wholly-owned or controlled by us, they will have no obligation to make any funds available to us, whether in the form of loans, dividends or otherwise. The ability of our subsidiaries to distribute cash to us will also be subject to, among other things, restrictions that are contained in our subsidiaries' financing agreements, availability of sufficient funds in such subsidiaries and applicable state laws. Claims of creditors of our subsidiaries generally will have priority as to the assets of such subsidiaries over our claims and claims of our creditors and stockholders. To the extent the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends or other payments to us could be limited in any way, this could materially limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, or otherwise fund and conduct our business.. The Company is and may become a significant stockholder in various independent public and/or private companies, each of which with its own board of directors owing fiduciary duties to all stockholders, not just SDOI as a large stockholder.. Although SDOI is and may become a large stockholder of various independent companies, each such company's board of directors will continue to have fiduciary duties to all of its stockholders. The respective board of directors may make decisions and approve actions that are in the best interests of all shareholders, even if such actions or decisions are not desirable to SDOI.. If we discover material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, or those of any entity that we acquire, it may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which also could affect the trading price of our Class A Common Stock.. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. A \"significant deficiency\" is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is less severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention of those responsible for oversight of our financial reporting.. To the extent that any material weakness or significant deficiency exists in our, or our consolidated subsidiaries', internal control over financial reporting, such material weakness or significant deficiency may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information necessary for the conduct of our business and satisfaction of our reporting obligations under federal securities laws. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A Common Stock.. We are required to include in our periodic reports filed with the SEC, or to incorporate by reference therein, the financial statements of entities that we acquire. If any such entity does not timely provide such financial statements, it may adversely affect our ability to provide timely and reliable financial information and satisfy our reporting obligations under federal securities laws, which also could affect the trading price of our Class A Common Stock.. We are required to file periodic reports with the SEC that contain our financial information and financial information of entities that we acquire or in which we hold a substantial interest. Should any such entity fail to provide us with such financial information in a timely manner, or at all, it could cause us to be delinquent in meeting our own filing requirements, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A Common Stock.. We may be required to incur significant costs, and our activities may be restricted, to avoid investment company status. We may suffer adverse consequences if we are deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act.. We do not hold ourselves out as an investment company. The Investment Company Act contains substantive legal requirements that regulate the manner in which investment companies are permitted to conduct their business activities. We believe that we are not an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We could incur significant legal expenses if the SEC or a court questioned whether we are an investment company. If the SEC or a court were to disagree with us, we could be required to register as an investment company, which would negatively affect our ability to acquire an operating company; subject us to disclosure and accounting guidance geared toward investment, rather than operating, companies; significantly limit our ability to borrow money, issue options, issue multiple classes of stock and debt, and engage in transactions with affiliates; and require us to undertake significant costs and expenses to meet other disclosure, reporting and regulatory requirements.. 20. Table of Contents. In addition, if at any time it were established that we are or had been operating as an investment company in violation of the Investment Company Act, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we would be subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, that we could be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period in which it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. If, subsequently, we were not permitted or were unable to register as an investment company as described above, it is likely that we would be forced to cease or significantly restructure operations.. In order not to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, unless we can qualify for an exemption, we must ensure that we are engaged primarily in a business other than investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and that we do not own or acquire \"investment securities\" having a value exceeding 40% of the value of our total assets (exclusive of United States government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Rule 3a-1 of the Investment Company Act provides an exemption from registration as an investment company if a company meets both an asset and an income test and is not otherwise primarily engaged in an investment company business by, among other things, holding itself out to the public as such or by taking controlling interests in companies with a view to realizing profits through subsequent sales of these interests. A company satisfies the asset test of Rule 3a-1 if it has no more than 45% of the value of its total assets (adjusted to exclude United States Government securities and cash) in the form of securities other than interests in United States Government securities, majority-owned subsidiaries and companies which it primarily and actively controls. A company satisfies the income test of Rule 3a-1 if it has derived no more than 45% of its net income for its last four fiscal quarters combined from securities other than interests in United States Government securities, majority owned subsidiaries and primarily controlled companies.. We may be subject to an additional tax as a personal holding company on future undistributed personal holding company income if we generate passive income in excess of operating expenses.. Section 541 of the Code subjects a corporation which is a \"personal holding company\", or a PHC, as defined in the Code, to a 20% tax on \"undistributed personal holding company income\" in addition to the corporation's normal income tax. Generally, undistributed personal holding company income is based on taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, most notably a deduction for federal income taxes and a modification of the usual net operating loss deduction. Personal holding company income, or PHC Income, is comprised primarily of passive investment income plus, under certain circumstances, personal service income. A corporation generally is considered to be a PHC if<U+2009>(i) at least 60% of its adjusted ordinary gross income for the taxable year is PHC Income and (ii) more than 50% in value of its outstanding stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (including, for this purpose, certain organizations and trusts) at any time during the last half of the corporation's taxable year.. So long as the SG Parties hold more than 50% in value of our outstanding Common Stock at any time during any tax year, it is possible that at least 60% of our adjusted ordinary gross income could consist of PHC Income as discussed above. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to this tax in the future, which, in turn, may materially adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. In addition, if we are subject to this tax during future periods, statutory tax rate increases could significantly increase tax expense and adversely affect operating results and cash flows.. Our Sixth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions which may discourage the takeover of SDOI, may make removal of our management more difficult and may depress our stock price.. Our Sixth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our management. Such provisions could also have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our Class A Common Stock. As a result, these provisions could prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of Class A Common Stock above the prevailing market prices. These provisions include:.   the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, approximately 290,000,000 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 20,000,000 shares of our Class B Common Stock;.   the authority of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 500,000,000 shares of our preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine;.   special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the board of directors pursuant to a resolution approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, the chairman of the board of directors, the president of SDOI, or the holders of shares of capital stock of SDOI representing a majority of the total votes eligible to be cast by holders of shares of capital stock of SDOI;. 21. Table of Contents.   advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and.   the absence of cumulative voting rights.. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock, possibly depressing the market price of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace members of our management team.. Limitations on liability and Indemnification.. As permitted by the DGCL, we have included in our Sixth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation a provision to eliminate the personal liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach or alleged breach of their fiduciary duties as directors, subject to certain exceptions. Our bylaws also provide that we are required to indemnify our directors under certain circumstances, including those circumstances in which indemnification would otherwise be discretionary, and we will be required to advance expenses to our directors as incurred in connection with proceedings against them for which they may be indemnified. In addition, we, by action of our board of directors, may provide indemnification and advance expenses to our officers, employees and agents (other than directors), to directors, officers, employees or agents of a subsidiary of SDOI, and to each person serving as a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, at our request, with the same scope and effect as the indemnification of our directors provided in our bylaws.. As a former shell company, there are limitations on the ability of our shareholders to resell our restricted securities.. Rule 144 under the Securities Act provides a safe harbor under which holders of restricted securities and affiliates of an issuer may resell their securities into the public market. However, Rule 144 is unavailable for securities of a shell company and former shell companies until, among other things, twelve months have elapsed since the former \"shell company\" has filed certain information with the SEC.  We ceased being a \"shell company\" in June 2017 and to file the requisite information with the Commission on June 8, 2017. However, no assurance can be provided as to the date, if any, that our securities will again become eligible for resale under Rule 144. The unavailability of the Rule 144 resale exemption for our securities may adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing on a private placement basis, and may adversely affect the ability of parties purchasing in our private placements and our affiliates to resell their securities into the public market, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders.. We will have to satisfy certain requirements before our Class A Common Stock can be listed on a national securities exchange such as NASDAQ or the NYSE.. Trading of our Class A Common Stock is currently conducted in the over-the-counter market on the OTCQB. Subject to certain exceptions, national securities exchanges, including NASDAQ and the NYSE (including the NYSE American), prohibit a company that has completed a reverse merger with a public shell from applying to list on such an exchange (often referred to as \"uplisting\") until the combined entity had traded in the U.S. over-the-counter market, on another national securities exchange, or on a regulated foreign exchange, for at least one year following the filing of all required information about the reverse merger transaction, including audited financial statements. In addition, the rules require that the former shell company has filed all of its required reports for the one-year period, including at least one annual report. Furthermore, in order to uplist, the former shell company must maintain a threshold closing stock price for a substantial period of time. The exchanges may also impose more stringent requirements upon a former shell company seeking to uplist if they so choose. As such, we cannot guarantee that we will in the future be able to cause the listing of our securities on any national securities exchange.. Our stock has generally had a low trading volume and price fluctuations in our Class A Common Stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including factors that affect the volatility of the Class A Common Stock of any of our publicly held subsidiaries.. During the period from June 1, 2017 through March 1, 2018, the price of our Class A Common Stock fluctuated between $9.50 and $18.00 per share, with an average daily trading volume for the period of approximately 1,527 shares. The trading price of our Class A Common Stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors beyond our control, including:.   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations and, after we complete acquisitions or investments, the performance of our subsidiaries and their competitors;.   reaction of the market to our announcement of any future acquisitions or investments;. 22. Table of Contents.   the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;.   changes in general economic conditions; and.   actions of our historical equity investors, including sales of Class A Common Stock by our principal stockholders, our directors and our executive officers.. In addition, the trading price of our Class A Common Stock could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors that affect the volatility of the Class A Common Stock of any of our subsidiaries, such as Turning Point, that are publicly traded.. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock may adversely affect our market price.. Shares of our Class A Common Stock held by the SG Parties are \"restricted securities\" under the Securities Act, as that term is defined in the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be sold in the public market unless the sale is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available. However, the SG Parties have registration rights under a registration rights agreement to facilitate the resale of their shares of our Class A Common Stock. Under this registration rights agreement, the SG Parties will have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to register the sale of these shares under the federal securities laws. By exercising their registration rights, and selling all or a large number of their shares, the SG Parties could cause the prevailing market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline. In addition, the shares of our Class A Common Stock owned by the ST Parties, may in the future be saleable in the public market under Rule 144 of the Securities Act after the applicable holding period and manner and volume of sales requirements have been met, subject to the restrictions and limitations of that Rule.. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock into the public market, or perceptions in the market that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Class A Common Stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock in the near term, capital appreciation, if any, of our Class A Common Stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use as consideration for an acquisition of an operating business or other acquisition or in the operation and expansion of our future businesses. In addition, the terms of any future financing agreements may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our Class A Common Stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future.. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company in the United States.. As a public company in the United States, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses, including costs associated with U.S. public company reporting requirements. We will also incur costs associated with listing requirements, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the SEC. The expenses incurred by U.S. public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. We expect these rules and regulations would increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. In estimating these costs, we took into account expenses related to insurance, legal, accounting, and compliance activities, as well as other expenses not currently incurred. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our Class A Common Stock (should it be listed in the future), fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation.. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our Class A common stock, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline.. The trading market for our Class A Common Stock likely will be influenced by the research and reports that equity and debt research analysts publish about the industry, us and our business. The market price of our Class A Common Stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our shares or if those analysts issue a sell recommendation or other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elect to cover us downgrade our shares, the market price of our Class A Common Stock would likely decline.. Our board of directors is not composed of a majority of independent directors, which poses a significant risk for us from a corporate governance perspective.. 23. Table of Contents. Our board of directors currently consists of five members. Our Executive Chairman and our President and CEO serve as two of our directors.  A third director is a principal of Standard General, our majority stockholder. The remaining two directors on the board are independent. Our majority stockholder, the SG Parties, also exercises control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the nomination of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Stockholders should bear in mind our current lack of corporate governance measures in formulating their investment decisions.. Failures or interruptions in or breaches to our or our subsidiaries' computer systems could materially and adversely affect our or our subsidiaries' operations.. We and our subsidiaries are dependent upon information technologies, computer systems and networks, including those maintained by us and our subsidiaries and those maintained and provided to us and our subsidiaries by third parties (for example, \"software-as-a-service\" and cloud solutions), to conduct operations and are reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our and their businesses. We and our subsidiaries are dependent upon operational and financial computer systems to process the data necessary to conduct almost all aspects of our and their businesses. Any failure of our or our subsidiaries' computer systems, or those of our or their customers, vendors or others with whom we and they do business, could materially disrupt business operations. Computer, telecommunications and other business facilities and systems could become unavailable or impaired from a variety of causes, including storms and other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, fires, utility outages, theft, design defects, human error or complications encountered as existing systems are replaced or upgraded. In addition, it has been reported that unknown entities or groups have mounted so-called \"cyber attacks\" on businesses and other organizations solely to disable or disrupt computer systems, disrupt operations and, in some cases, steal data. Breaches of our and our subsidiaries' computer security infrastructure can result from actions by our employees, vendors, third party administrators or by unknown third parties, and may disrupt our or their operations, cause damage to our or their assets and surrounding areas and impact our or their data framework or cause a failure to protect personal information of customers or employees.. The foregoing risks relating to disruption of service, interruption of operations and data loss could impact our and our subsidiaries' ability to timely perform critical business functions, resulting in disruption or deterioration in our and our subsidiaries' operations and business and expose us and our subsidiaries to monetary and reputational damages. In addition, potential exposures include substantially increased compliance costs and required computer system upgrades and security related investments. The breach of confidential information also could give rise to legal liability and regulatory action under data protection and privacy laws and regulations.. Risks Relating to Standard Outdoor's Business. The following section relates to the business of Standard Outdoor LLC and its subsidiaries, the Company's wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiaries operating in the outdoor billboard industry.. The out-of-home Advertising industry is highly competitive.. The outdoor billboard industry is highly competitive. There is a concentration in the ownership of billboards in the geographic markets in which we compete and significantly larger companies such as Clear Channel Outdoor Communications, OUTFRONT Media Inc. and Lamar Advertising Company, dominate the out-of-home advertising business.. Our outdoor billboard business is subject to various regulations.. Our billboard businesses are regulated by governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These regulations could limit our growth by putting constraints on the number, location and timing of billboards we wish to erect. New regulations and changes to existing regulations may also curtail our ability to expand our billboard business and adversely affect us by reducing our revenues or increasing our operating expenses. For example, settlements between major tobacco companies and all U.S. states and certain U.S. territories include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products. Alcohol products and other products may be future targets of advertising bans, and legislation, litigation or out-of-court settlements may result in the implementation of additional advertising restrictions that impact our business. Any significant reduction in alcohol-related advertising or the advertising of other products due to content-related restrictions could negatively impact our revenues generated from such businesses and cause an increase in the existing inventory of available outdoor billboard space throughout the industry.. Our operating results are subject to seasonal variations and other factors.. Our business experiences seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on advertising markets. Typically, our revenues and profits are highest in the fourth quarter, during the holiday shopping season, and lowest in the first quarter, as advertisers cut back on spending following the holiday shopping season. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter, which may make it difficult to plan capital expenditures and expansion, could affect operating results and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 24. Table of Contents. If our contingency plans relating to hurricanes and other natural disasters fail, the resulting losses could hurt our business.. The Company has determined that it is uneconomical to insure against losses resulting from hurricanes and other natural disasters. Although the Company has developed contingency plans designed to mitigate the threat posed by hurricanes and other forms of inclement weather to its real estate portfolio (e.g., removing advertising faces at the onset of a storm, when possible, which better permits the structures to withstand high winds during the storm), these plans could fail and significant losses could result.. Our business is sensitive to a decline in advertising expenditures, general economic conditions and other external events beyond our control.. We derive our revenues from providing advertising space to customers on out-of-home advertising structures. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers, the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic market or industry, particularly a market or industry in which we conduct substantial business could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty, extraordinary weather events, hostilities and power outages could interrupt our ability to display advertising on our advertising structures and lead to a reduction in economic certainty and advertising expenditures. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, our financial performance could be adversely affected by, among other things:.   unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers;.   our inability to successfully adopt or our being late in adopting technological changes and innovations that offer more attractive advertising alternatives than what we offer, which could result in a loss of advertising customers or lower advertising rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial performance;.   unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics, which may cause us to lose advertising customers as people migrate to markets where we have a smaller presence or which may cause advertisers to be willing to pay less in advertising fees if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective;.   adverse political effects and acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and.   unfavorable changes in labor conditions, which may impair our ability to operate or require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees.. Risks Relating to Interboro's Line of Business. For purposes of this section, the insurance business relates to the business of Maidstone Insurance Company, the trade name of Interboro Holdings, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.. The insurance industry is highly competitive and very fragmented.. Our insurance business operates in an environment that is highly competitive and very fragmented. We compete with other insurance providers, including but not limited to GEICO, State Farm, Progressive, Liberty Mutual and Travelers, as well as numerous specialist, regional and local firms in almost every area of our business. Further, new competitors may regularly enter the market. Any additional industries or markets that we may enter through future acquisitions will also likely be occupied by established competitors. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, product development and human resources than we. Accordingly, even if there is a large market for our products and services in the industries in which we compete, there can be no assurance that our products and services will be purchased by consumers at a rate sufficient for us to achieve our growth objectives.. Our management recognizes that we will, therefore, be forced to compete primarily on the basis of price, location, performance, service, and other factors. Our management believes that our ability to achieve sustained profitability will depend primarily on our ability to consummate acquisitions of assets and businesses in competitive markets, skillfully allocate capital, and establish competitive advantages in each of our businesses. This approach requires that our management perform at a high level and is fraught with risks, many of which are beyond our control or ability to foresee.. The insurance industry is subject to significant regulations.. Governmental regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our insurance business is subject to maintaining compliance within the highly regulated insurance industry as we continue our pursuit of opportunities in that market, including the maintenance of certain levels of operating capital and reserves. Generally, the extensive regulations are designed to benefit or protect policyholders, rather than our investors, or to reduce systemic financial risk. Failure to comply with these regulations could lead to disciplinary action, the imposition of penalties and the revocation of our authorization to operate in the insurance industry. Changes to the regulatory environment in the insurance industry may cause us to adjust our views or practices regarding regulatory risk management, and necessitate changes to our operations that may limit our growth or have an adverse impact on our business.. 25. Table of Contents. In addition, certain of the other new markets and industries that we may choose to enter may be regulated by a variety of federal, state and local agencies. We may not be successful in obtaining authority to issue insurance in all states.. We are subject to extensive insurance regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of insurance policyholders, as opposed to the interests of investors or stockholders. These regulations generally are administered by a department of insurance in each state and relate to, among other things, authorizations to write excess and surplus lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment and underwriting limitations, affiliate transactions, dividend limitations, changes in control, solvency and a variety of other financial and non-financial aspects of our business. Significant changes in these laws and regulations could further limit our discretion or make it more expensive to conduct our business. State insurance regulators also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may impose timing and expense constraints that could adversely affect our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives.. In addition, state insurance regulators have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. In some instances, where there is uncertainty as to applicability, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe generally to be followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, state insurance regulators could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or could otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could interfere with our operations and require us to bear additional costs of compliance, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, has adopted a system to test the adequacy of capital of insurance companies, known as \"risk-based capital.\" The Risk-Based Capital Formula establishes the minimum amount of capital necessary for a company to support its overall business operations. It identifies property and casualty insurers that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at three major areas: 1) Asset Risk; 2) Underwriting Risk; and 3) Other Risk. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Failure to maintain our risk-based capital at the required levels could adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiary to maintain regulatory authority to conduct our business.. We may be unable to obtain reinsurance coverage at reasonable prices or on terms that adequately protect us.. We use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to insurance risks. Reinsurance is a practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding insurer, for all or part of the potential liability arising from one or more insurance policies issued by the ceding insurer. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. In addition, reinsurance programs are generally subject to renewal on an annual basis. We may not be able to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms or from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. If we are unable to obtain new reinsurance facilities or to renew expiring facilities, our net exposures would increase. In such event, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in our net exposure, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, which would reduce our revenues.. Many reinsurance companies have begun to exclude certain coverages from, or alter terms in, the reinsurance contracts. For example, many reinsurance policies now exclude coverage of terrorism. As a result, we, like other direct insurance companies, write insurance policies which to some extent do not have the benefit of reinsurance protection. These gaps in reinsurance protection expose us to greater risk and greater potential losses.. We may face difficulties in expanding our insurance business.. As we seek to expand our insurance business operations, our limited size may create near-term constraints on our ability to quickly obtain approvals to operate in all states while simultaneously managing our day-to-day operations. We believe expanding our operations may create additional burdens on our personnel as we manage potentially significantly larger operations. As a result, we anticipate we will need to hire additional personnel to assist the current management team in our expanded insurance operations, and we may not be successful in identifying and hiring qualified personnel on a timely basis, if at all.. 26. Table of Contents. Our employees may take excessive risks, which could negatively affect our financial condition and business.. As a business which anticipates it will derive a significant portion of its business from the sale of insurance products, we are in the business of binding certain risks. The employees who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, underwriters, product managers and other employees, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining which business opportunities to pursue, setting of claims reserves and making claims payments, selection of reinsurers and structure of reinsurance treaties, and other decisions. We endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our employees incentives to take excessive risks. Employees may, however, take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor employees' business decisions and prevent them from taking excessive risks, these controls and procedures may not be effective. If our employees take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations.. If actual insurance claims exceed our claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are necessary, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected.. As we grow our insurance operations, we will be establishing claims and claims adjustment expense reserves. These reserves will not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead will represent management estimates of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost, generally utilizing actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date.. The process of estimating claims and claim adjustment expense reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can be affected by both internal and external events, such as: changes in claims handling procedures; adverse changes in loss cost trends, including inflationary pressures; economic conditions including general inflation; legal trends and legislative changes; and varying judgments and viewpoints of the individuals involved in the estimation process, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses will be difficult to estimate. We also expect that claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimation difficulties will also differ significantly by product line due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event and when it is actually reported to the insurer).. The estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse or uncertain economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties, increased frequency of small claims or delays in the reporting of claims.. We will attempt to consider all significant facts and circumstances known at the time claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are established or reviewed. Due to the recent acquisition of our insurance subsidiary and the inherent uncertainty underlying claims and claim adjustment expense reserve estimates, the final resolution of the estimated liability for claims and claim adjustment expenses will likely be higher or lower than the related claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a materially different amount than will be currently reserved.. Because of the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities resulting from an accumulation of insured events may exceed the current related reserves. In addition, our estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. These additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and/or our financial position.. Our efforts to develop new insurance products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks.. A number of our planned business initiatives in the insurance markets we intend to serve will involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. This includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or grow market share:.   We may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured, contain new coverage or coverage terms or contain different commission terms..   We may refine our underwriting processes..   We may seek to expand distribution channels..   We may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the United States where we have had relatively little or no market share.. 27. Table of Contents. We may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. Among other risks:.   Demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations..   To the extent we are able to market new products or expand in new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated or effective as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations..   Models underlying underwriting and pricing decisions may not be effective..   Efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict..   To develop new products or markets, we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results in the near term..   We may not get adequate support from the reinsurers.. If our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. 28. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Turning Point's Line of Business. Sales of tobacco products are generally expected to continue to decline.. As a result of restrictions on advertising and promotions, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of tobacco and tobacco-related products, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups, and other factors, the overall U.S. market for tobacco products has generally been declining in terms of volume of sales and is expected to continue to decline. The general climate of declining sales of tobacco products is principally driven by the long-standing declines in cigarettes. OTP, on the other hand, as measured by MSAi, have been generating modest volume gains. For instance, while loose leaf chewing tobacco products have declined for over a decade, MST, a much larger Smokeless segment, has been growing in the low single digits over the same period. Additionally, cigarillo cigars and MYO cigar wraps have each demonstrated MSAi volume gains in recent years. Turning Point's tobacco products comprised approximately 68% of its total 2017 net sales and, while some of Turning Point's sales volume declines have been offset by higher prices or by increased sales in other product categories, there can be no assurance that these price increases or increased sales can be sustained, especially in an environment of increased regulation and taxation and changes in consumer spending habits.. Turning Point depends on a small number of key third-party suppliers and producers for its products.. Turning Point's operations are largely dependent on a small number of key suppliers and producers to supply or manufacture Turning Point's products pursuant to long-term contracts. In 2017, Turning Point's four most important suppliers and producers were: (i) Swedish Match, which produces all of its loose leaf chewing tobacco in the U.S., (ii) Bollor, which provides Turning Point with exclusive access to the Zig-Zag cigarette paper and related accessories in the U.S. and Canada, (iii) Durfort, from which Turning Point sources its MYO cigar wraps, and (iv) JJA, from which Turning Point sources its Zig-Zag branded cigars and cigarillos.. All of Turning Point's loose leaf tobacco products are manufactured for Turning Point by Swedish Match pursuant to a ten-year renewable agreement, which Turning Point entered into in 2008. The agreement will automatically be renewed for five successive ten-year terms unless either party provides at least 180 days' notice prior to a renewal term of its intent to terminate the agreement or unless otherwise terminated in accordance with the provisions of the agreement. If a notice of non-renewal is delivered, the contract will expire two years after the date on which the agreement would have otherwise been renewed. Under this agreement, Turning Point retains the rights to all marketing, distribution and trademarks over the loose leaf brands that Turning Point owns or licenses. Turning Point shares responsibilities with Swedish Match related to process control, manufacturing activities, quality control, and inventory management with respect to its loose leaf products. Turning Point relies on the performance by Swedish Match of its obligations under the agreement for the production of its loose leaf tobacco products. Any significant disruption in Swedish Match's manufacturing capabilities or Turning Point's relationship with Swedish Match, a deterioration in Swedish Match's financial condition, or an industry-wide change in business practices with respect to loose leaf tobacco products could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. All of Turning Point's Zig-Zag premium cigarette papers, cigarette tubes, and injectors are sourced from Bollor, pursuant to a renewable 20-year exclusive agreement. This agreement was most recently renewed in 2012. In addition, under the terms of the agreement with Bollor, Turning Point renegotiates pricing terms every five years. As of March 1, 2018, Turning Point is operating under a temporary price structure and formula. The parties are considering a modified pricing formula and a potential new index and duration. There is no guarantee that Turning Point will be able to reach a new pricing agreement with Bollor at all or on terms satisfactory to Turning Point. Further, Bollor sources its needs for Turning Point's orders from an affiliate of one of its competitors.. Turning Point sources its MYO cigar wraps through, the patent holder, Durfort pursuant to an agreement entered into in October 2008. The agreement extends until expiration of the patents or cancellation of the agreement by either party.  Turning Point relies on Durfort to produce and package its MYO cigar wraps to Turning Point's specifications. Any significant disruption in Turning Point's relationship with Durfort, a deterioration in Durfort's financial condition, an industry-wide change in business practices relating to MYO cigar wraps, or its ability to source the MYO cigar wraps from them could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Turning Point sources its Zig-Zag branded cigars and cigarillos through JJA and its Dominican Republic partner pursuant to an agreement Turning Point entered into in April 2013. Turning Point relies on JJA to purchase and maintain an inventory of all the necessary raw materials, including packaging bearing its intellectual property, manufacture to Turning Point's specifications, and deliver the products to Turning Point's designated U.S. distribution center. Turning Point cannot guarantee that JJA will continue to source sufficient quantities of Turning Point's Zig-Zag branded cigars or cigarillos in order for Turning Point to meet its customer demands. Any significant disruption in Turning Point's relationship with JJA, a failure to supply Turning Point with inventory in sufficient amounts, a deterioration in JJA's financial condition, or an industry-wide change in business practices with respect to Zig-Zag branded cigars could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 29. Table of Contents. Pursuant to agreements with certain suppliers, Turning Point has agreed to store tobacco inventory purchased on Turning Point's behalf and generally maintain a 12- to 24-month supply of its various tobacco products at their facilities. Turning Point cannot guarantee its supply of these products will be adequate to meet the demands of Turning Point's customers. Further, a major fire, violent weather conditions, or other disasters that affect Turning Point or any of Turning Point's key suppliers or producers, including Bollor, Swedish Match, Durfort, or JJA, as well as those of its other suppliers and vendors, could have a material adverse effect on its operations. Although Turning Point has insurance coverage for some of these events, a prolonged interruption in its operations, as well as those of Turning Point's producers, suppliers, or vendors, could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, Turning Point does not know whether it will be able to renew any or all of its agreements on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to Turning Point, or at all.. Any disruptions in Turning Point's relationships with Bollor, Swedish Match, Durfort, or JJA, a failure to renew any of its agreements, an inability or unwillingness by any supplier to produce sufficient quantities of Turning Point's products in a timely manner or finding a new supplier would have a significant impact on Turning Point's ability to continue distributing the same volume and quality of products and maintain its market share, even during a temporary disruption, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Turning Point may be unable to identify or contract with new suppliers or producers in the event of a disruption to its supply.. In order to continue selling Turning Point's products in the event of a disruption to its supply, Turning Point would have to identify new suppliers or producers that would be required to satisfy significant regulatory requirements. Only a limited number of suppliers or producers may have the ability to produce its products at the volumes Turning Point needs, and it could be costly or time-consuming to locate and approve such alternative sources. Moreover, it may be difficult or costly to find suppliers to produce small volumes of its new products in the event Turning Point is looking only to supplement current supply as suppliers may impose minimum order requirements. In addition, Turning Point may be unable to negotiate pricing or other terms with its existing or new suppliers as favorable as those Turning Point currently enjoys. Even if Turning Point was able to successfully identify new suppliers and contract with them on favorable terms, these new suppliers would also be subject to stringent regulatory approval procedures that could result in prolonged disruptions to Turning Point's sourcing and distribution processes.. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that a new third-party supplier could accurately replicate the production process and taste profile of its existing products. Turning Point cannot guarantee that a failure to adequately replace its existing suppliers would not have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Turning Point licenses to use certain brands and trademarks may be terminated or not renewed.. Turning Point is reliant upon brand recognition in the OTP markets in which Turning Point competes as the OTP industry is characterized by a high degree of brand loyalty and a reluctance to switch to new or unrecognizable brands on the part of consumers. Some of the brands and trademarks under which Turning Point's products are sold are licensed to Turning Point for a fixed period of time in respect of specified markets, such as its distribution and license agreement with Bollor for use of the Zig-Zag name and associated trademarks in connection with certain of Turning Point's cigarette papers and related products.. Turning Point has two licensing agreements with Bollor, the first of which governs licensing and the use of the Zig-Zag name with respect to cigarette papers, cigarette tubes, and cigarette injector machines, and the second of which governs licensing and the use of the Zig-Zag name with respect to e-cigarettes, vaporizers, and e-liquids. In 2017, Turning Point generated $122.7 million in gross sales of Zig-Zag products, of which $58.4 million was generated from products sold through Turning Point's license agreement with Bollor. In the event the licensing agreements with Bollor are not renewed, the terms of the agreements bind Turning Point under a five-year non-compete clause, under which Turning Point cannot engage in direct or indirect manufacturing, selling, distributing, marketing, or otherwise promoting of cigarette papers of a competitor without Bollor's consent, except in limited instances. Turning Point does not know whether it will renew these agreements on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to Turning Point, or at all. As a result of these restrictions, if Turning Point's agreements with Bollor are terminated, Turning Point may not be able to access the markets with recognizable brands that would be positioned to compete in these segments.. In the event that the licenses to use the brands and trademarks in Turning Point's portfolio are terminated or are not renewed after the end of the term, there is no guarantee Turning Point will be able to find a suitable replacement, or if a replacement is found, that it will be on favorable terms. Any loss in Turning Point's brand-name appeal to its existing customers as a result of the lapse or termination of Turning Point's licenses could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 30. Table of Contents. Turning Point may not be successful in maintaining the consumer brand recognition and loyalty of its products.. Turning Point competes in a market that relies on innovation and the ability to react to evolving consumer preferences. The tobacco industry in general, and the OTP industry in particular, are subject to changing consumer trends, demands, and preferences. Therefore, products once favored may over time become disfavored by consumers or no longer perceived as the best option. Consumers in the OTP market have demonstrated a high degree of brand loyalty, but producers must continue to adapt their products in order to maintain their status among these customers as the market evolves. The Zig-Zag brand has strong brand recognition among smokers, and Turning Point continued success depends in part on its ability to continue to differentiate the brand names that Turning Point owns or licenses and maintains similarly high levels of recognition with target consumers. Trends within the OTP industry change often. Turning Point's failure to anticipate, identify, or react to changes in these trends could, among other things, lead to reduced demand for its products. Factors that may affect consumer perception of its products include health trends and attention to health concerns associated with tobacco, price-sensitivity in the presence of competitors' products or substitute products, and trends in favor of new NewGen products that are currently being researched and produced by participants in Turning Point's industry. For example, in recent years, Turning Point has witnessed a shift in consumer purchases from chewing tobacco to moist snuff due to its increased affordability. Along with Turning Point's biggest competitors in the chewing tobacco market, which also produce moist snuff, Turning Point has been able to shift priorities and adapt to this change. A failure to react to similar trends in the future could enable its competitors to grow or establish their brands' market shares in these categories before Turning Point has a chance to respond.. Consumer perceptions of the overall health of tobacco-based products is likely to continue to shift, and Turning Point's success depends, in part, on its ability to anticipate these shifting tastes and the rapidity with which the markets in which Turning Point competes will evolve in response to these changes on a timely and affordable basis. If Turning Point is unable to respond effectively and efficiently to changing consumer preferences, the demand for its products may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Regulations may be enacted in the future, particularly in light of increasing restrictions on the form and content of marketing of tobacco products, that would make it more difficult to appeal to Turning Point's consumers or to leverage existing recognition of the brands that Turning Point owns or licenses. Furthermore, even if Turning Point is able to continue to distinguish its products, there can be no assurance that the sales, marketing, and distribution efforts of its competitors will not be successful in persuading consumers of Turning Point's products to switch to their products. Many of Turning Point's competitors have greater access to resources than Turning Point does, which better positions them to conduct market research in relation to branding strategies or costly marketing campaigns. Any loss of consumer brand loyalty to its products or reduction of its ability to effectively brand Turning Point's products in a recognizable way will have a material effect on Turning Point's ability to continue to sell its products and maintain Turning Point's market share, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Turning Point is subject to substantial and increasing regulation.. The tobacco industry has been under public scrutiny for over 50 years. Industry critics include special interest groups, the U.S. Surgeon General, and many legislators and regulators at the state and federal levels. A wide variety of federal, state, and local laws limit the advertising, sale, and use of tobacco, and these laws have proliferated in recent years. Together with changing public attitudes towards tobacco consumption, the constant expansion of regulations has been a major cause of the overall decline in the consumption of tobacco products since the early 1970s. These regulations relate to, among other things, the importation of tobacco products and shipping throughout the U.S. market, increases in the minimum age to purchase tobacco products, imposition of taxes, sampling and advertising bans or restrictions, flavor bans or restrictions, ingredient and constituent disclosure requirements, and media campaigns and restrictions on where smokers can smoke. Additional restrictions may be legislatively imposed or agreed to in the future. These limitations may make it difficult for Turning Point to maintain the value of any brand.. Moreover, the current trend is toward increasing regulation of the tobacco industry, which is likely to differ between the various U.S. states and Canadian provinces in which Turning Point currently conduct the majority of its business. Extensive and inconsistent regulation by multiple states and at different governmental levels could prove to be particularly disruptive to Turning Point's business as Turning Point may be unable to accommodate such regulations in a cost-effective manner that allows Turning Point to continue to compete in an economically viable way. Regulations are often introduced without the tobacco industry's input and have been a significant reason behind reduced industry sales volumes and increased illicit trade.. In 1986, federal legislation was enacted regulating smokeless tobacco products (including dry and moist snuff and chewing tobacco) by, among other things, requiring health warnings on smokeless tobacco packages and prohibiting the advertising of smokeless tobacco products on media subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\"). Since 1986, other proposals have been made at the federal, state, and local levels for additional regulation of tobacco products. It is likely that additional proposals will be made in the coming years. For example, the Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking Act prohibits the use of the U.S. Postal Service to mail most tobacco products and amends the Jenkins Act, which established cigarette sales reporting requirements for state excise tax collection, to require individuals and businesses that make interstate sales of cigarettes or smokeless tobacco comply with state tax laws. See \" - There is uncertainty related to the federal regulation of NewGen products, cigars and pipe tobacco products\" for further details. Additional federal or state regulation relating to the manufacture, sale, distribution, advertising, labeling, mandatory ingredients disclosure and nicotine yield information disclosure of tobacco products could reduce sales, increase costs, and have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. 31. Table of Contents. On June 22, 2009, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the \"Tobacco Control Act\") authorized the FDA for regulatory authority over tobacco products.  The Act also amended the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, which governs how cigarettes can be advertised and marketed, as well as the Comprehensive Smokeless Tobacco Health Education Act (\"CSTHEA\"), which governs how smokeless tobacco can be advertised and marketed. In addition to the FDA and FCC, Turning Point is subject to regulation by numerous other federal agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\"), the Department of Justice (\"DOJ\"), the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (\"TTB\"), the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\"), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (\"USDA\"), the Consumer Product Safety Commission (\"CPSC\"), the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (\"CBP\") and the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention's (\"CDC\") Office on Smoking and Health. There have also been adverse legislative and political decisions and other unfavorable developments concerning cigarette smoking and the tobacco industry, which have received widespread public attention. There can be no assurance as to the ultimate content, timing or effect of any regulation of tobacco products by governmental bodies, nor can there be any assurance that potential corresponding declines in demand resulting from negative media attention would not have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Turning Point products are regulated by the FDA, which has broad regulatory powers.. Substantially all of Turning Point's 2017 U.S. gross sales are derived from the sale of products that are currently regulated by the FDA. The Tobacco Control Act grants the FDA broad regulatory authority over the design, manufacture, sale, marketing and packaging of tobacco products. Among the regulatory powers conferred to the FDA under the Tobacco Control Act is the authority to impose tobacco product standards that are appropriate for the protection of the public health, require manufacturers to obtain FDA review and authorization for the marketing of certain new or modified tobacco products and impose various additional restrictions. Such restrictions may include requiring reduction or elimination of the use of particular constituents or components, requiring product testing, or addressing other aspects of tobacco product construction, constituents, properties or labeling.. Specifically, the Tobacco Control Act (i) increases the number of health warnings required on cigarette and smokeless tobacco products, increases the size of warnings on packaging and in advertising, requires the FDA to develop graphic warnings for cigarette packages, and grants the FDA authority to require new warnings, (ii) imposes restrictions on the sale and distribution of tobacco products, including significant restrictions on tobacco product advertising and promotion as well as the use of brand and trade names, (iii) bans the use of \"light,\" \"mild,\" \"low\" or similar descriptors on tobacco products, (iv) bans the use of \"characterizing flavors\" in cigarettes other than tobacco or menthol, (v) requires manufacturers to report ingredients and harmful constituents and requires the FDA to disclose certain constituent information to the public, (vi) authorizes the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine and the potential reduction or elimination of other constituents or additives, including menthol, (vii) establishes potentially expensive and time-consuming pre-market and \"substantial equivalence\" review pathways for tobacco products that are considered new, (viii) gives FDA broad authority to deny product applications thereby preventing the sale or distribution of the product subject to the application (and requiring such product to be removed from the market, if applicable), and (ix) requires tobacco product manufacturers (and certain other entities) to register with the FDA.. The FDA charges user fees based on the USDA unit calculations pro-rated to the annualized FDA congressionally allocated budget. These fees only apply to certain products currently regulated by the FDA, which include Turning Point's smokeless and smoking products (other than cigarette paper products), but Turning Point may in the future be required to pay such fees on more of its products, and Turning Point cannot accurately predict which additional products may be subject to such fees or the magnitude of such fees, which could become significant.. Although the FDA is prohibited from issuing regulations banning all cigarettes or all smokeless tobacco products, or requiring the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product to zero, it is likely that its regulations in accordance with the Tobacco Control Act could result in a decrease in cigarette and smokeless tobacco sales in the U.S. Turning Point believes that such regulation could adversely affect its ability to compete against Turning Point's larger competitors, who may be able to more quickly and cost-effectively comply with these new rules and regulations. Turning Point's ability to gain efficient market clearance for new tobacco products, or even to keep existing products on the market, could also be affected by FDA rules and regulations. Some of Turning Point's currently marketed products that are subject to FDA regulation will require marketing authorizations from the FDA for Turning Point to continue marketing them (e.g., pre-market or substantial equivalence marketing authorizations, as applicable to the product), which Turning Point cannot guarantee it will be able to obtain. In addition, failure to comply with new or existing tobacco laws under which the FDA imposes regulatory requirements could result in significant financial penalties and government investigations of Turning Point. To the extent Turning Point is unable to respond to, or comply with, new FDA regulations it could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Many of Turning Point's products contain nicotine, which is considered to be a highly addictive substance.. Many of Turning Point's products contain nicotine, a chemical that is considered to be highly addictive. The Tobacco Control Act empowers the FDA to regulate the amount of nicotine found in tobacco products, but not to require the reduction of nicotine yields of a tobacco product to zero. Any FDA regulation, whether of nicotine levels or other product attributes, may require Turning Point to reformulate, recall and/or discontinue certain of the products Turning Point may sell from time to time, which may have a material adverse effect on its ability to market its products and have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. 32. Table of Contents. There is uncertainty related to the federal regulation of NewGen products, cigars and pipe tobacco products.  Increased regulatory compliance burdens could have a material adverse impact on Turning Point's NewGen business development efforts.. Since their introduction, there has been significant uncertainty regarding whether, how and when tobacco regulations would apply to NewGen products, such as electronic cigarettes or other vaporizer products. Based on a decision in December 2010 by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (the \"Sottera decision\"), the FDA is permitted to regulate electronic cigarettes containing tobacco-derived nicotine as \"tobacco products\" under the Tobacco Control Act.. Effective August 8, 2016, FDA's regulatory authority under the Tobacco Control Act was extended to all remaining tobacco products, including: (i) certain NewGen products (such as electronic cigarettes, vaporizers and e-liquids) and their components or parts (such as tanks, coils and batteries); (ii) cigars and their components or parts (such as cigar tobacco); (iii) pipe tobacco; (iv) hookah products; or (v) any other tobacco product \"newly deemed\" by FDA.  These deeming regulations apply to all products made or derived from tobacco intended for human consumption, but excluding accessories of tobacco products (such as lighters).. The deeming regulations require Turning Point to (i) register with the FDA and report product and ingredient listings; (ii) market newly deemed products only after FDA review and approval; (iii) only make direct and implied claims of reduced risk if the FDA approves after finding that scientific evidence supports the claim and that marketing the product will benefit public health as a whole; (iv) refrain from distributing free samples; (v) implement minimum age and identification restrictions to prevent sales to individuals under age 18; (vi) develop an approved warning plan and include prescribed health warnings on packaging and advertisements; and (vii) refrain from selling the products in vending machines, unless the machine is located in a facility that never admits youth. Newly-deemed tobacco products are also subject to the other requirements of the Tobacco Control Act, such as that they not be adulterated or misbranded. The FDA could in the future promulgate good manufacturing practice regulations for these and Turning Point's other products, which could have a material adverse impact on its ability and the cost to manufacture its products.. Marketing authorizations will be necessary in order for Turning Point to continue its distribution of NewGen and cigar and pipe tobacco products. Compliance dates vary depending upon type of application submitted, but all newly-deemed products will require an application no later than August 8, 2021, for \"combustible\" products (e.g. cigar and pipe) and August 8, 2022, for \"non-combustible\" products (e.g. vapor products) with the exception of Turning Point's \"grandfathered\" products (products in commerce as of February 15, 2007) which are already authorized, unless FDA grants extensions to these compliance periods.  Turning Point intends to timely file for the appropriate authorizations to allow Turning Point to sell its products in the U.S. Turning Point has no assurances that the outcome of such processes will result in its products receiving marketing authorizations from the FDA. Turning Point also has certain previously-regulated tobacco products which remain subject to \"provisional\" substantial equivalence filings made on March 22, 2011.  If the FDA establishes regulatory processes that Turning Point is unable or unwilling to comply with, Turning Point's business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.. The anticipated costs of complying with future FDA regulations will be dependent on the rules issued by the FDA, the timing and clarity of any new rules or guidance documents accompanying these rules, the reliability and simplicity (or complexity) of the electronic systems utilized by FDA for information and reports to be submitted, and the details required by FDA for such information and reports with respect to each regulated product (which have yet to be issued by FDA). Failure to comply with existing or new FDA regulatory requirements could result in significant financial penalties and could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to market and sell its products.  Compliance and related costs could be substantial and could significantly increase the costs of operating in Turning Point's NewGen and cigar and pipe tobacco product markets.. In addition, failure to comply with the Tobacco Control Act and with FDA regulatory requirements could result in litigation, criminal convictions or significant financial penalties and could impair Turning Point's ability to market and sell its electronic and vaporizer products. At present, Turning Point is not able to predict whether Tobacco Control Act will impact its products to a greater degree than competitors in the industry, thus affecting Turning Point's competitive position.. Furthermore, neither the Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking Act nor the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act currently apply to NewGen products. There may, in the future, also be increased regulation of additives in smokeless products and internet sales of NewGen products. The application of either or both of these federal laws, and of any new laws or regulations which may be adopted in the future, to NewGen products or such additives could result in additional expenses and require Turning Point to change its advertising and labeling, and methods of marketing and distribution of its products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. 33. Table of Contents. Significant increases in state and local regulation of Turning Point's NewGen products have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted in numerous jurisdictions.. There has been increasing activity on the state and local levels with respect to scrutiny of NewGen products. State and local governmental bodies across the U.S. have indicated NewGen products may become subject to new laws and regulations at the state and local levels. For example, in January 2015, the California Department of Health declared electronic cigarettes a health threat that should be strictly regulated like tobacco products. Further, some states and cities, have enacted regulations that require obtaining a tobacco retail license in order to sell electronic cigarettes and vaporizer products. Many states and some cities have passed laws restricting the sale of electronic cigarettes and vaporizer products to minors. If one or more states from which Turning Point generates or anticipates generating significant sales of NewGen products bring actions to prevent Turning Point from selling its NewGen products unless Turning Point obtains certain licenses, approvals or permits, and if Turning Point is not able to obtain the necessary licenses, approvals or permits for financial reasons or otherwise and/or any such license, approval or permit is determined to be overly burdensome to Turning Point, then Turning Point may be required to cease sales and distribution of its products to those states, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Certain states and cities have already restricted the use of electronic cigarettes and vaporizer products in smoke-free venues. Additional city, state or federal regulators, municipalities, local governments and private industry may enact rules and regulations restricting the use of electronic cigarettes and vaporizer products in those same places where cigarettes cannot be smoked. Because of these restrictions, Turning Point's customers may reduce or otherwise cease using its NewGen products, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Increases in tobacco-related taxes have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted in numerous jurisdictions.. Tobacco products, premium cigarette papers and tubes have long been subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes. Such taxes have frequently been increased or proposed to be increased, in some cases significantly, to fund various legislative initiatives or further disincentives' smoking. Since 1986, smokeless products have been subject to federal excise tax. Smokeless products are taxed by weight (in pounds or fractional parts thereof) manufactured or imported.. Since the State Children's Health Insurance Program (\"S-CHIP\") reauthorization in early 2009, which utilizes, among other things, taxes on tobacco products to fund health insurance coverage for children, the federal excise tax increases adopted have been substantial and have materially reduced sales in the \"roll your own\" (\"RYO\") /MYO cigarette smoking products market, and also caused volume declines in other markets. Although the RYO/MYO cigarette smoking tobacco and related products market had been one of the fastest growing markets in the tobacco industry in the five years prior to 2009, the reauthorization of S-CHIP increased the federal excise tax on RYO tobacco from $1.10 to $24.78 per pound, and materially reduced the MYO cigarette smoking tobacco market in the U.S. There have not been any increases announced since 2009, but Turning Point cannot guarantee that it will not be subject to further increases, nor whether any such increases will affect prices in a way that further deters consumers from purchasing Turning Point's products and/or affects its net revenues in a way that renders Turning Point unable to compete effectively.. In addition to federal excise taxes, every state and certain city and county governments have imposed substantial excise taxes on sales of tobacco products, and many have raised or proposed to raise excise taxes in recent years. Approximately one-half of the states tax MST on weight-based versus unit-based. Additional states may consider adopting such revised tax structures as well. Tax increases, depending on their parameters, may result in consumers switching between tobacco products or depress overall tobacco consumption, which is likely to result in declines in overall sales volumes.. Any future enactment of increases in federal or state excise taxes on Turning Point's tobacco products or rulings that certain of its products should be categorized differently for excise tax purposes could adversely affect demand for its products and may result in consumers switching between tobacco products or a depression in overall tobacco consumption, which would have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. If Turning Point's NewGen products become subject to increased taxes it could adversely affect its business.. Presently the sale of NewGen products is generally not subject to federal, state and local excise taxes like the sale of conventional cigarettes or other tobacco products, all of which generally have high tax rates and have faced significant increases in the amount of taxes collected on their sales. In recent years, however, state and local governments have taken actions to move towards imposing excise taxes on NewGen products. As of December 31, 2017, California, the District of Columbia, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and certain localities impose excise taxes on electronic cigarettes and/or liquid vapor. Other jurisdictions are contemplating similar legislation and other restrictions on electronic cigarettes. Should federal, state and local governments and or other taxing authorities begin or continue to impose excise taxes similar to those levied against conventional cigarettes and tobacco products on NewGen products, it may have a material adverse effect on the demand for these products, as consumers may be unwilling to pay the increased costs, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. 34. Table of Contents. Turning Point may be subject to increasing international control and regulation.. The World Health Organization's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (\"FCTC\") is the first international public health treaty that establishes a global agenda to reduce initiation of tobacco use and regulate tobacco in an effort to encourage tobacco cessation. Over 170 governments worldwide have ratified the FCTC. The FCTC has led to increased efforts to reduce the supply and demand of tobacco products and to encourage governments to further regulate the tobacco industry. The tobacco industry expects significant regulatory developments to take place over the next few years, driven principally by the FCTC. Regulatory initiatives that have been proposed, introduced or enacted include:.   the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges;.   restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship;.   the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements;.   restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors and generic packaging;.   restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale, and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines;.   requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke  constituents levels;.   requirements regarding testing, disclosure and use of tobacco product ingredients;.   increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors;.   elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and.   encouraging litigation against tobacco companies.. If the U.S. becomes a signatory to the FCTC and/or national laws are enacted in the U.S. that reflect the major elements of the FCTC, Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If NewGen products become subject to one or more of the significant regulatory initiatives proposed under the FCTC, Turning Point's NewGen products segment may also be materially adversely affected.. As part of Turning Point's strategy, Turning Point has begun strategic international expansions, such as introducing its moist snuff tobacco products in South America and cigar products in Canada. This and other future expansions may subject Turning Point to additional or increasing international regulation, either by the countries that are the object of the strategic expansion or through international regulatory regimes, such as the FCTC, to which those countries may be signatories.. Liquid vapor products containing nicotine have not been approved for sale in Canada. Some Canadian provinces have restricted sales and marketing of electronic cigarettes, and other provinces are in the process of passing similar legislation. Furthermore, some Canadian provinces have limited the use of electronic cigarettes and vaporizer products in public places. As a result, Turning Point is unable to market these products in the relevant parts of Canada. These measures, and any future measures taken to limit the marketing, sale and use of NewGen products may have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. To the extent Turning Point's existing or future products become subject to international regulatory regimes that Turning Point is unable to comply with or fail to comply with, they may have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Turning Point's distribution efforts rely in part on Turning Point's ability to leverage relationships with large retailers and national chains.. Turning Point's distribution efforts rely in part on Turning Point's ability to leverage relationships with large retailers and national chains to sell and promote its products, which is dependent upon the strength of the brand names that Turning Point owns or licenses and its sales force effectiveness. In order to maintain these relationships, Turning Point must continue to supply products that will bring steady business to these retailers and national chains. Turning Point may not be able to sustain these relationships or establish other relationships with such entities, which could have a material adverse effect on its ability to execute its branding strategies, Turning Point's ability to access the end-user markets with its products or Turning Point's ability to maintain its relationships with the producers of its products. For example, if Turning Point is unable to meet benchmarking provisions in contracts or if Turning Point is unable to maintain and leverage its retail relationships on a scale sufficient to make Turning Point an attractive distributor, it would have a material adverse effect on its ability to source products, and on Turning Point business, results of operations and financial condition.. 35. Table of Contents. In addition, there are factors beyond Turning Point's control that may prevent Turning Point from leveraging existing relationships, such as industry consolidation. If Turning Point is unable to develop and sustain relationships with large retailers and national chains, or is unable to leverage those relationships due to factors such as a decline in the role of brick-and-mortar retailers in the North American economy, its capacity to maintain and grow brand and product recognition and increase sales volume will be significantly undermined. In such an event, Turning Point may ultimately be forced to pursue and rely on local and more fragmented sales channels, which will have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Turning Point has a substantial amount of indebtedness that could affect Turning Point's financial condition.. As of March 1, 2018, Turning Point had $199.1 million outstanding under its credit facility with the ability to borrow an additional $46.5 million under its revolving credit facility. If Turning Point cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service its debt, Turning Point may need to further refinance its debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. Turning Point does not know whether Turning Point will be able to do any of this on a timely basis or on terms satisfactory to Turning Point or at all.. Turning Point substantial amount of indebtedness could limit its ability to:.   obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes in the future;.   plan for, or react to, changes in Turning Point's business and the industries in which Turning Point operates;.   make future acquisitions or pursue other business opportunities;.   react in an extended economic downturn; and.   pay dividends to the extent Turning Point determines to do so in the future.. The terms of the agreement governing Turning Point's indebtedness may restrict Turning Point's current and future operations, which would adversely affect its ability to respond to changes in Turning Point's business and to manage its operations.. Turning Point's 2017 Credit Facility contained, Turning Point's 2018 Credit Facility contains (refer to Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding Turning Point's 2018 Credit Facility), and any future indebtedness of Turning Point would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on Turning Point, including restrictions on its ability to, among other things:.   incur additional debt;.   pay dividends and make other restricted payments;.   create liens;.   make investments and acquisitions;.   engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock;.   enter into sale-leaseback transactions;.   enter into transactions with affiliates;.   transfer all or substantially all of Turning Point assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions; and.   enter into certain hedging agreements.. Turning Point's 2017 Credit Facility required, and the 2018 Credit Facility requires, Turning Point to maintain certain financial ratios. As of December 31, 2017, Turning Point was in compliance with the financial and restrictive covenants of the 2017 Credit Facility. However, a failure by Turning Point to comply with the covenants or financial ratios in Turning Point's debt instruments could result in an event of default under the applicable facility, which could adversely affect its ability to respond to changes in its business and manage its operations. In the event of any default under Turning Point's 2018 Credit Facility, the lenders under its debt instruments could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such instruments to be due and payable and require Turning Point to apply all of its available cash to repay these amounts. If the indebtedness under Turning Point's 2018 Credit Facility were to be accelerated, which would cause an event of default and a cross-acceleration of Turning Point's obligations under its other debt instruments, there can be no assurance that its assets would be sufficient to repay this indebtedness in full, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Turning Point face intense competition and may fail to compete effectively.. Turning Point is subject to significant competition across its segments, and compete against companies in all segments that have access to significant resources in terms of technology, relationships with suppliers and distributors and access to cash flow and financial markets.. 36. Table of Contents. The OTP industry is characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, price, marketing and packaging constituting the primary methods of competition. Substantial marketing support, merchandising display, competitive pricing and other financial incentives generally are required to introduce a new brand or to improve or maintain a brand's market position. Turning Point principal competitors are \"big tobacco,\" Altria Group, Inc. (formerly Phillip Morris) and British American Tobacco p.l.c. (formerly Reynolds) as well as Swedish Match, Swisher International and manufacturers of electronic cigarettes, including U.K.-based Imperial Brands PLC. These competitors are significantly larger than Turning Point and aggressively seek to limit the distribution or sale of other companies' products, both at the wholesale and retail levels. For example, certain competitors have entered into agreements limiting retail-merchandising displays of other companies' products or imposing minimum prices for OTP products, thereby limiting their competitors' ability to offer discounted products. In addition, the tobacco industry is experiencing a trend toward industry consolidation, most recently evidenced by the July 2017 acquisition of Reynolds American, Inc., by British American Tobacco p.l.c. and the June 2015 acquisition of Lorillard, Inc., by Reynolds American, Inc. Industry consolidation could result in a more competitive environment if Turning Point's competitors are able to increase their combined resources, enhance their access to national distribution networks, or become acquired by established companies with greater resources than Turning Point. Any inability to compete due to its smaller scale as the industry continues to consolidate and be dominated by \"big tobacco\" could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The competitive environment and Turning Point's competitive position is also significantly influenced by economic conditions, the state of consumer confidence, competitors' introduction of low-priced products or innovative products, higher taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories and product regulation that diminishes the consumer's ability to differentiate tobacco products. Due to the impact of these factors, as well as higher state and local excise taxes and the market share of deep discount brands, the tobacco industry has become increasingly price competitive. As Turning Point seeks to adapt to the price competitive environment, its competitors that are better capitalized may be able to sustain price discounts for long periods of time by spreading the loss across their expansive portfolios, with which Turning Point is not positioned to compete.. \"Big tobacco\" has also established its presence in the NewGen products market. There can be no assurance that Turning Point's products will be able to compete successfully against these companies or any of its other competitors, some of which have far greater resources, capital, experience, market penetration, sales and distribution channels than Turning Point. In addition, there are currently no U.S. restrictions on advertising electronic cigarettes and vaporizer products and competitors, including \"big tobacco,\" may have more resources than Turning Point for advertising expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on its ability to build and maintain market share, and thus have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The market for NewGen products is subject to a great deal of uncertainty and is still evolving.. Vaporizer products and electronic cigarettes, having recently been introduced to market, are at an early stage of development, and represent core components of a market that is evolving rapidly and is characterized by a number of market participants. Rapid growth in the use of, and interest in, vaporizer products and electronic cigarettes is recent, and may not continue on a lasting basis. The demand and market acceptance for these products is subject to a high level of uncertainty. Therefore, Turning Point is subject to all of the business risks associated with a new enterprise in an evolving market. Continued evolution, uncertainty and the resulting increased risk of failure of Turning Point's new and existing product offerings in this market could have a material adverse effect on its ability to build and maintain market share and on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, there can be no assurance that Turning Point will be able to continue to effectively compete in the NewGen products marketplace.. Turning Point is subject to significant product liability litigation.. The tobacco industry has experienced and continues to experience significant product liability litigation. Most tobacco liability lawsuits have been brought against manufacturers and sellers of cigarettes by individual plaintiffs, often participating on a class-action basis, for injuries allegedly caused by cigarette smoking or by exposure to cigarette smoke. However, several lawsuits have also been brought against Turning Point and other manufacturers and sellers of smokeless products for injuries to health allegedly caused by use of smokeless products. There are several such suits pending against Turning Point with limited activity. In addition to the risks to Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition resulting from adverse results in any such action, ongoing litigation may divert management's attention and resources, which could have an impact on its business and operations. Turning Point cannot predict with certainty the outcome of these claims and there can be no assurance that Turning Point will not sustain losses in connection with such lawsuits and that such losses will not have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition to current and potential future claims related to Turning Point's smoking and smokeless products, Turning Point is subject to several lawsuits alleging personal injuries resulting from malfunctioning vaporizer devices and may be subject to claims in the future relating to its other NewGen products. Turning Point is still evaluating these claims and the potential defenses to them. As a result of their relative novelty, electronic cigarette and vaporizer product manufacturers and sellers have only recently become subject to litigation. Turning Point may see increasing litigation over NewGen products or the regulation of its products, as the regulatory regimes surrounding these products develop. For a description of current material litigation to which Turning Point or Turning Point subsidiaries are a party, see \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\". 37. Table of Contents. As a result, Turning Point may face substantial costs due to increased product liability litigation relating to new regulations or other potential defects associated with NewGen products it ships, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The scientific community has not yet studied extensively the long-term health effects of electronic cigarette, vaporizer or e-liquids products use.. Electronic cigarettes, vaporizers and related products were recently developed and therefore the scientific community has not had a sufficient period of time to study the long-term health effects of their use. Currently, there is no way of knowing whether these products are safe for their intended use. If the scientific community were to determine conclusively that use of any or all of these products poses long-term health risks, market demand for these products and their use could materially decline. Such a determination could also lead to litigation and significant regulation. Loss of demand for Turning Point's product, product liability claims and increased regulation stemming from unfavorable scientific studies on these products could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Turning Point is required to maintain cash amounts within an escrow account in order to be compliant with a settlement agreement between Turning Point and certain U.S. states and territories.. In November 1998, the major U.S. cigarette manufacturers entered into the Master Settlement Agreement (\"MSA\") and the Smokeless Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (\"STMSA\") with 46 U.S. states and certain U.S. territories and possessions. Pursuant to the MSA and subsequent states' statutes, a \"cigarette manufacturer\" (which is defined to also include a manufacturer of RYO/MYO cigarette tobacco) has the option of either becoming a signatory to the MSA, or, as Turning Point has elected, operating as a non-participating manufacturer (\"NPM\") by funding and maintaining an escrow account, with sub-accounts on behalf of each settling state. These NPM escrow accounts are governed by states' escrow and complementary statutes that are generally monitored by the Office of the State Attorney General. The statutes require NPM companies to deposit, on an annual basis, into qualified banks' escrow funds based on the number of cigarettes or cigarette equivalents, which is measured by pounds of RYO/MYO tobacco sold. NPM companies are, within specified limits, entitled to direct the investment of the escrowed funds and withdraw any interest or appreciation, but cannot withdraw the principal for twenty-five years from the year of each annual deposit, except to withdraw funds deposited pursuant to an individual state's escrow statute to pay a final judgment to that state's plaintiffs in the event of such a final judgment. The investment vehicles available to Turning Point are specified in the state escrow agreements and are limited to low-risk government securities.. Various states have enacted or proposed complementary legislation intended to curb the activity of certain manufacturers and importers of cigarettes or MYO tobacco that are selling into MSA states without signing the MSA or who have failed to properly establish and fund a qualifying escrow account. Turning Point believes it has been fully compliant with all applicable laws, regulations, and statutes, although compliance-related issues may, from time to time, be disruptive to Turning Point's business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Pursuant to the NPM escrow account statutes, in order to be compliant with the NPM escrow requirements, Turning Point is required to deposit such funds for each calendar year into a qualifying escrow account by April 15 of the following year with each year's deposit being released from escrow after 25 years. Turning Point has deposited less than $0.1 million relating to 2017 sales and anticipate deposits of less than $0.1 million relating to 2017 sales during April 2018 due to the discontinuance of Turning Point's MYO tobacco line in the third quarter of 2017. As of December 31, 2017, Turning Point had made deposits of approximately $32.1 million.. Although no such legislation has been proposed or enacted, future changes to the MSA, such as legislation that extends the MSA to products to which it does not currently apply or legislation that limits the ability of companies to receive unused escrow funds after 25 years, may have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition. Despite the amounts maintained and funded to the escrow account, compliance with the funding requirements for the escrow account does not necessarily prevent future federal and/or state regulations with respect to the OTP industry from having a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Competition from illicit sources may have an adverse effect on Turning Point's overall sales volume, restricting the ability to increase selling prices and damaging brand equity.. Illicit trade and tobacco trafficking in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and locally manufactured products on which applicable taxes are evaded, represent a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry. Factors such as increasing tax regimes, regulatory restrictions, and compliance requirements are encouraging more consumers to switch to illegal, cheaper tobacco products and providing greater rewards for smugglers. Illicit trade can have an adverse effect on Turning Point's overall sales volume, restrict the ability to increase selling prices, damage brand equity and may lead to commoditization of its products.. 38. Table of Contents. Although Turning Point combats counterfeiting of its products by engaging in certain tactics, such as requiring all sales force personnel to randomly collect its products from retailers in order to be tested by Turning Point's quality control team, maintaining a quality control group that is responsible for identifying counterfeit products and using a private investigation firm to help perform surveillance of retailers Turning Point suspects are selling counterfeit products, no assurance can be given that Turning Point will be able to detect or stop sales of all counterfeit products. In addition, Turning Point has in the past and will continue to bring suits against retailers and distributors that sell certain counterfeit products. While Turning Point has been successful in securing financial recoveries from and helping to obtain criminal convictions of counterfeiters in the past, no assurance can be given that Turning Point will be successful in any such suits or that such suits will be successful in stopping other retailers or distributors from selling counterfeit products. Even if Turning Point is successful, such suits could consume a significant amount of management's time and could also result in significant expenses to the company. Any failure to track and prevent counterfeiting of its products could have a material adverse on its ability to maintain or effectively compete for the products Turning Point distributes under Turning Point's brand names, which would have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition.. Reliance on information technology means a significant disruption could affect Turning Point's communications and operations.. Turning Point increasingly relies on information technology systems for its internal communications, controls, reporting and relations with customers and suppliers and information technology is becoming a significantly important tool for its sales staff. Turning Point's marketing and distribution strategy is dependent upon its ability to closely monitor consumer and market trends on a highly specified level, for which Turning Point is reliant on its highly sophisticated data tracking systems, which are susceptible to disruption or failure. In addition, Turning Point's reliance on information technology exposes Turning Point to cyber-security risks, which could have a material adverse effect on its ability to compete. Security and privacy breaches may expose Turning Point to liability and cause Turning Point to lose customers, or may disrupt its relationships and ongoing transactions with other entities with whom Turning Point contracts throughout its supply chain. The failure of Turning Point's information systems to function as intended, or the penetration by outside parties intent on disrupting business processes, could result in significant costs, loss of revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data and reputational harm.. Security and privacy breaches may expose Turning Point to liability and cause Turning Point to lose customers.. Federal and state laws require Turning Point to safeguard its wholesalers' and retailers' financial information, including credit information. Although Turning Point has established security procedures to protect against identity theft and the theft of its customers' and distributors' financial information, Turning Point's security and testing measures may not prevent security breaches and breaches of privacy may occur and could harm Turning Point's business. Typically, Turning Point relies on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to enhance transmission security of confidential information in relation to financial and other sensitive information that Turning Point has on file. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, inadequate facility security or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by Turning Point to protect customer data. Any compromise of Turning Point's security could harm its reputation or financial condition and, therefore, Turning Point's business. In addition, a party who is able to circumvent Turning Point's security measures or exploit inadequacies in its security measures, could, among other effects, misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruptions in Turning Point's operations or expose customers and other entities with which Turning Point interacts to computer viruses or other disruptions. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against Turning Point. To the extent the measures Turning Point has taken prove to be insufficient or inadequate, Turning Point may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to its reputation.. Contamination of, or damage to, Turning Point's products could adversely impact sales volume, market share and profitability.. Turning Point's market position may be affected through the contamination of its tobacco supply or products during the manufacturing process or at different points in the entire supply chain. Turning Point keeps significant amounts of inventory of its products in warehouses and it is possible that this inventory could become contaminated prior to arrival at Turning Point's premises or during the storage period. If contamination of Turning Point's inventory or packaged products occurs, whether as a result of a failure in quality control by Turning Point or by one of Turning Point's suppliers, Turning Point may incur significant costs in replacing the inventory and recalling products. Turning Point may be unable to meet customer demand and may lose customers who purchase alternative brands or products. In addition, consumers may lose confidence in the affected product.. Under the terms of Turning Point's contracts, it imposes requirements on its suppliers to maintain quality and comply with product specifications and requirements, and on its third-party co-manufacturer to comply with all federal, state and local laws. These third-party suppliers, however, may not continue to produce products that are consistent with Turning Point's standards or that are in compliance with applicable laws, and Turning Point cannot guarantee that it will be able to identify instances in which its third-party suppliers fail to comply with its standards or applicable laws. A loss of sales volume from a contamination event may occur, and such a loss may affect Turning Point's ability to supply its current customers and to recapture their business in the event they are forced to switch products or brands, even if on a temporary basis. Turning Point may also be subject to legal action as a result of a contamination, which could result in negative publicity and affect Turning Point's sales. During this time, Turning Point's competitors may benefit from an increased market share that could be difficult and costly to regain. Such a contamination event could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. 39. Table of Contents. Turning Point intellectual property may be infringed.. Turning Point currently relies on trademark and other intellectual property rights to establish and protect the brand names and logos Turning Point owns or licenses. Third parties have in the past infringed, and may in the future infringe, on these trademarks and its other intellectual property rights. Turning Point's ability to maintain and further build brand recognition is dependent on the continued and exclusive use of these trademarks, service marks and other proprietary intellectual property, including the names and logos Turning Point owns or licenses. Despite Turning Point's attempts to ensure these intellectual property rights are protected, third parties may take actions that could materially and adversely affect its rights or the value of this intellectual property. Any litigation concerning Turning Point's intellectual property rights, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to Turning Point and diversions of its resources. Expenses related to protecting Turning Point's intellectual property rights, the loss or compromise of any of these rights or the loss of revenues as a result of infringement could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition, and may prevent the brands Turning Point owns or licenses from growing or maintaining market share.. Third parties may claim that Turning Point infringe their intellectual property and trademark rights.. Competitors in the tobacco products and NewGen markets may claim that Turning Point infringe their proprietary rights. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against Turning Point or the payment of damages. Further, Turning Point's vapor distribution businesses distribute third party product brands with those suppliers' branding and imagery. If that branding or imagery is alleged by other parties to infringe or otherwise violate intellectual property rights, Turning Point could be drawn into such litigation.. Turning Point may fail to manage Turning Point's growth.. Turning Point has expanded over its history and intends to grow in the future. For example, Turning Point acquired the VaporBeast brand in 2016 which has accelerated Turning Point's entry into non-traditional retail channels. In addition, Turning Point acquired the Stoker's brand in 2003, and has continued to develop it through the introduction of new products, such as moist snuff. Turning Point has also focused on growing its relationships with its key suppliers through expansion into new product lines, such as the addition of cigarillos, which are sourced by JJA and MYO cigar wraps, which are sourced from Durfort. However, any future growth will place additional demands on Turning Point's resources, and Turning Point cannot be sure it will be able to manage its growth effectively. If Turning Point is unable to manage its growth while maintaining the quality of its products and profit margins, or if new systems that Turning Point implement to assist in managing its growth do not produce the expected benefits, Turning Point's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Turning Point may not be able to support, financially or otherwise, future growth, or hire, train, motivate and manage the required personnel. Turning Point's failure to manage growth effectively could also limit its ability to achieve its goals as they relate to streamlined sales, marketing and distribution operations and the ability to achieve certain financial metrics.. Turning Point may fail to successfully integrate Turning Point's acquisitions or otherwise be unable to benefit from pursuing acquisitions.. Turning Point believes there are meaningful opportunities to grow through acquisitions and joint ventures across all OTP product categories and Turning Point expect to continue a strategy of selectively identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products. Turning Point may be unable to identify, negotiate, and complete suitable acquisition opportunities on reasonable terms.  There can be no assurance that any business acquired by Turning Point will be successfully integrated with its operations or prove to be profitable to Turning Point.  Turning Point may incur future liabilities related to acquisitions. Should any of the following problems, or others, occur as a result of Turning Point's acquisition strategy, the impact could be material:.   difficulties integrating personnel from acquired entities and other corporate cultures into Turning Point's business;.   difficulties integrating information systems;.   the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies;.   the assumption of liabilities and exposure to undisclosed or unknown liabilities of acquired companies; or.   the diversion of management attention from existing operations. Turning Point is subject to fluctuations in Turning Point's results that make it difficult to track trends and develop strategies in the short-term.. In response to competitor actions and pricing pressures, Turning Point has engaged in significant use of promotional and sales incentives. Turning Point regularly review the results of its promotional spending activities and adjust its promotional spending programs in an effort to maintain Turning Point's competitive position. Accordingly, unit sales volume and sales promotion costs in any period are not necessarily indicative of sales and costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. Additionally, promotional activity significantly increases net sales in the month in which it is initiated and net sales are adversely impacted in the month after a promotion. Accordingly, based upon the timing of Turning Point's marketing and promotional initiatives, Turning Point has and may continue to experience significant variability in its results, which could affect its ability to formulate strategies that allow Turning Point to maintain its market presence across volatile periods. If Turning Point fluctuations obscure its ability to track important trends in its key markets, it may have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. 40. Table of Contents. Turning Point is subject to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations.. Currency movements and suppliers' price increases relating to premium cigarette papers and cigarette tubes are the primary factors affecting Turning Point's cost of sales. These products are purchased from Bollor and Turning Point makes payments in euros. Thus, Turning Point bears certain foreign exchange rate risk for certain of its inventory purchases. In addition, as part of Turning Point's strategy, Turning Point has begun strategic international expansions. As a result, Turning Point may be more sensitive to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations. To manage this risk, Turning Point sometimes utilize short-term forward currency contracts to purchase euros for its inventory purchases. Turning Point has a foreign exchange currency policy which governs Turning Point's hedging of risk. While Turning Point engages in hedging transactions from time to time, no assurance can be made that Turning Point will be successful in eliminating currency exchange risks or that changes in currency rates will not have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Adverse U.S. and global economic conditions could negatively impact Turning Point's business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Turning Point's business and operations are sensitive to global economic conditions. These conditions include interest rates, energy costs, inflation, recession, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets and the general condition of the U.S. and world economy. A material decline in the economic conditions affecting consumers, which cause a reduction in disposable income for the average consumer, may change consumption patterns, and may result in a reduction in spending on OTP or a switch to cheaper products or products obtained through illicit channels. Electronic cigarettes, vaporizer and e-liquid products are relatively new to market and may be regarded by users as a novelty item and expendable. As such, demand for Turning Point's NewGen products may be particularly sensitive to economic conditions such as inflation, recession, high energy costs, unemployment, changes in interest rates and money supply, changes in the political environment and other factors beyond its control, any combination of which could result in a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Turning Point's supply to its wholesalers and retailers is dependent on the demands of their customers who are sensitive to increased sales taxes and economic conditions affecting their disposable income.. Consumer purchases of tobacco products are historically affected by economic conditions, such as changes in employment, salary and wage levels, the availability of consumer credit, inflation, interest rates, fuel prices, sales taxes, and the level of consumer confidence in prevailing and future economic conditions. Discretionary consumer purchases, such as of OTP, may decline during recessionary periods or at other times when disposable income is lower and taxes may be higher.. In addition, states such as New York, Hawaii, Rhode Island, Georgia and North Carolina have begun collecting taxes on internet sales where companies have used independent contractors in those states to solicit sales from residents of those states. These taxes apply to Turning Point's online sales of NewGen products into those states, and may result in reduced demand from the independent wholesalers who may not be able to absorb the increased taxes or successfully pass them onto the end-user without experiencing reduced demand. The requirement to collect, track and remit taxes based on independent affiliate sales may require Turning Point to increase its prices, which may affect demand for its products or conversely reduce Turning Point's net profit margin, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Turning Point failure to comply with certain environmental, health and safety regulations could adversely affect Turning Point's business.. The storage, distribution and transportation of some of the products that Turning Point sells are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental regulations. In addition, Turning Point's manufacturing facilities are similarly subject to federal, state and local environmental laws. Turning Point is also subject to operational, health and safety laws and regulations. Turning Point failure to comply with these laws and regulations could cause a disruption in its business, an inability to maintain Turning Point's manufacturing resources, and additional and potentially significant remedial costs and damages, fines, sanctions or other legal consequences that could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The departure of key management personnel and the failure to attract and retain talent could adversely affect Turning Point's operations.. Turning Point success depends upon the continued contributions of Turning Point's senior management. Its ability to implement its strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of OTP usage. The OTP industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, Turning Point may be unable to attract and retain the best talent, which could have a material adverse effect on Turning Point's business, results of operations and financial condition.. 41. Table of Contents. Imposition of significant tariffs on imports into the U.S., could have a material and adverse effect on Turning Point business.. Turning Point is required to purchase all of its cigarette papers, cigarette tubes and cigarette injector machines from Bollor in France, and Turning Point sources its Zig-Zag branded cigars and cigarillos and other products from the Dominican Republic. President Trump and his administration have imposed significant tariffs on certain goods imported from outside the U.S.  If the U.S. were to impose additional tariffs on goods Turning Point imports, it is likely to make it more costly for Turning Point to import goods from other countries.  As a result, Turning Point's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make Turning Point's common stock less attractive to investors, potentially decreasing Turning Point's stock price.. Turning Point is an \"emerging growth company\" as defined under the federal securities laws.  For as long as Turning Point continue to be an emerging growth company, Turning Point may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not Emerging Growth Companies. Investors may find Turning Point's common stock less attractive because Turning Point may rely on these exemptions, which include but are not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (\"Section 404\"), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in Turning Point's periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act (\"Section 107\") provides that an Emerging Growth Company can take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Turning Point has elected to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with the revised accounting standards.. If investors find Turning Point's common stock less attractive as a result of exemptions and reduced disclosure requirements, there may be a less active trading market for Turning Point's common stock and Turning Point's stock price may be more volatile or decrease.. Turning Point may lose Turning Point's status as an emerging growth company before the five-year maximum time period a company may retain such status.. Turning Point has elected to rely on certain exemptions and reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies and expect to continue to do so. However, Turning Point may choose to \"opt out\" of such reduced disclosure requirements and provide disclosure required for companies that do not qualify as emerging growth companies. In addition, Turning Point chose to opt out of the provision of the JOBS Act that permits Turning Point to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. Section 107 provides that Turning Point's decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards would be irrevocable.. Furthermore, although Turning Point is able to remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, Turning Point may lose such status at an earlier time if (i) Turning Point's annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (ii) Turning Point becomes a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of Turning Point's common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of Turning Point's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (iii) Turning Point issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period.. When Turning Point loses its emerging growth company status, whether due to an election, the end of the five-year period, or one of the circumstances listed in the preceding paragraph, the emerging growth company exemptions will cease to apply and Turning Point expect it will incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with the non-emerging growth company requirements. Turning Point cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs Turning Point may incur as a result of the change in its status or the timing of such costs, though such costs may be substantial.. Turning Point's principal stockholders are able to exert significant influence over matters submitted to Turning Point's stockholders and may take certain actions to prevent takeovers.. Standard Diversified Opportunities Inc. (\"SDOI\"), which is controlled by funds managed by Standard General L.P. (together with the funds it manages, \"Standard General\"), is a significant stockholder. SDOI owns approximately 51% of Turning Point stock and Standard General directly owns approximately 2.4% of Turning Point common stock. The existence of these and other significant stockholders may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of Turning Point's other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of Turning Point company. In addition, Turning Point's significant stockholders will be able to exert significant influence over the decision, if any, to authorize additional capital stock, which, if issued, could have a significant dilutive effect on holders of common stock.. 42. Table of Contents. Turning Point's certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of \"corporate opportunity\" will not apply against SDOI and Standard General in a manner that would prohibit them from investing in competing businesses or doing business with Turning Point's customers. To the extent they invest in such other businesses, SDOI and Standard General may have differing interests than Turning Point other stockholders. In addition, SDOI and Standard General are permitted to engage in business activities or invest in or acquire businesses which may compete with or do business with any competitors of Turning Point.. Furthermore, Standard General is in the business of managing investment funds and therefore may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to Turning Point's business and, as a result, such acquisition opportunities may not be available to Turning Point.. Turning Point's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware law and certain regulations, could discourage or prohibit acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of Turning Point's common stock.. Turning Point's certificate of incorporation authorizes Turning Point's board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If Turning Point's board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire Turning Point. In addition, some provisions of Turning Point's certificate of incorporation, bylaws and applicable law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of Turning Point, even if the change of control would be beneficial to Turning Point's stockholders, including:.   limitations on the removal of directors;.   limitations on the ability of Turning Point's stockholders to call special meetings;.   limitations on stockholder action by written consent;.   establishing advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; and.   limitations on the ability of Turning Point's stockholders to fill vacant directorships or amend the number of directors constituting Turning Point's board of directors.. Turning Point's certificate of incorporation limits the ownership of Turning Point's common stock by individuals and entities that are Restricted Investors. These restrictions may affect the liquidity of Turning Point's common stock and may result in Restricted Investors being required to sell or redeem their shares at a loss or relinquish their voting, dividend and distribution rights.. For so long as Turning Point or one of Turning Point's subsidiaries is party to any of the Bollor distribution agreements, Turning Point's certificate of incorporation will limit the ownership of Turning Point's common stock by any \"Restricted Investor\" to 14.9% of Turning Point outstanding common stock and shares convertible or exchangeable therefor (including Turning Point's non-voting common stock) (the \"Permitted Percentage\"). A \"Restricted Investor\" is defined as: (i) any entity that directly or indirectly manufactures, sells, markets, distributes or otherwise promotes cigarette paper booklets, filter tubes, injector machines or filter tips in the United States, the District of Columbia, the territories, possessions and military bases of the United States and the Dominion of Canada (a \"Bollor Competitor\"), (ii) any entity that owns more than a 20% equity interest in any Bollor Competitor, or (iii) any person who serves as a director or officer of, or any entity that has the right to appoint an officer or director of, any Bollor Competitor or of any Entity that owns more than a 20% equity interest in any Bollor Competitor (each, a \"Restricted Investor\"). Turning Point's certificate of incorporation further provides that any issuance or transfer of shares to a Restricted Investor in excess of the Permitted Percentage will be ineffective as against Turning Point and that neither Turning Point nor its transfer agent will register the issuance or transfer of shares or be required to recognize the transferee or owner as a holder of Turning Point's common stock for any purpose except to exercise Turning Point remedies described below. Any shares in excess of the Permitted Percentage in the hands of a Restricted Investor will not have any voting or dividend rights and are subject to redemption by Turning Point in its discretion. The liquidity or market value of the shares of Turning Point's common stock may be adversely impacted by such transfer restrictions.. As a result of the above provisions, a proposed transferee of Turning Point's common stock that is a Restricted Investor may not receive any return on its investment in shares it purchases or owns, as the case may be, and it may sustain a loss. Turning Point is entitled to redeem all or any portion of such shares acquired by a Restricted Investor in excess of the Permitted Percentage (\"Excess Shares\") at a redemption price based on a fair market value formula that is set forth in Turning Point's certificate of incorporation, which may be paid in any form, including cash or promissory notes, at its discretion. Excess Shares not yet redeemed will not be accorded any voting, dividend or distribution rights while they constitute Excess Shares. As a result of these provisions, a stockholder who is a Restricted Investor may be required to sell its shares of Turning Point's common stock at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on its investment in such shares. However, Turning Point may not be able to redeem Excess Shares for cash because its operations may not have generated sufficient excess cash flow to fund the redemption and Turning Point may incur additional indebtedness to fund all or a portion of such redemption, in which case its financial condition may be materially weakened.. 43. Table of Contents. Turning Point's certificate of incorporation permits Turning Point to require that owners of any shares of Turning Point's common stock provide certification of their status as a Restricted Investor. In the event that a person does not submit such documentation, Turning Point's certificate of incorporation provides Turning Point with certain remedies, including the suspension of the payment of dividends and distributions with respect to shares held by such person and deposit of any such dividends and distributions into an escrow account. As a result of non-compliance with these provisions, an owner of the shares of Turning Point's common stock may lose significant rights associated with those shares.. Although Turning Point's certificate of incorporation contains the above provisions intended to assure compliance with the restrictions on ownership of Turning Point's common stock by Restricted Investors, Turning Point may not be successful in monitoring or enforcing the provisions. A failure to enforce or otherwise maintain compliance could lead Bollor to exercise its termination rights under the agreements, which would have a material and adverse effect on the its financial position and its results of operations.. In addition to the risks described above, the foregoing restrictions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that might involve a premium price for Turning Point's common stock or that might otherwise be in the best interest of Turning Point's stockholders.. Future sales of Turning Point's common stock in the public market could reduce Turning Point's stock price, and any additional capital raised by Turning Point through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute Turning Point's stockholders.. Turning Point may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public offerings. Turning Point may also issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities.. Turning Point cannot predict the size of future issuances of its common stock or securities convertible into common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of its common stock will have on the market price of its common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of Turning Point's common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of Turning Point's common stock.. Turning Point may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of Turning Point's common stock.. Turning Point's certificate of incorporation authorizes Turning Point to issue, without the approval of Turning Point's stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over Turning Point's common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as Turning Point's board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of Turning Point's common stock. For example, Turning Point might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of Turning Point's directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences Turning Point might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. Turning Point status as a \"controlled company\" could make Turning Point's common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm Turning Point's stock price.. Because Turning Point qualifies as a \"controlled company\" under the corporate governance rules for NYSE-listed companies, Turning Point is not required to have, and could elect in the future not to have, a majority of Turning Point's board of directors be independent, a compensation committee, or an independent nominating function. Accordingly, should the interests of Turning Point's controlling stockholder differ from those of other stockholders, the other stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies subject to all of the corporate governance rules for NYSE-listed companies. Turning Point's status as a controlled company could make Turning Point's common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm Turning Point stock price."
