[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. A substantial portion of our revenue is generated by a limited number of clients. The loss or reduction in business from any of these clients would adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Revenue from our three largest clients, T-Mobile, Sprint, and AT&T accounted for 30.4%, 10.2%, and 10.0% respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.. We may not be able to retain our principal clients. If we were to lose any of our principal clients, we may not be able to replace the revenue on a timely basis. Loss of a principal client could result from many factors, including consolidation or economic downturns in our clients' industries, as discussed further below.. The future revenue we generate from our principal clients may decline or grow at a slower rate than expected or than it has in the past. In the event we lose any of our principal clients or do not receive call volumes anticipated from these clients, we may suffer from the costs of underutilized capacity because of our inability to eliminate all of the costs associated with conducting business with that client, which could exacerbate the effect that the loss of a principal client would have on our operating results and financial condition. Additional productivity gains could be necessary to offset the negative impact that lower per-minute revenue at higher volume levels would have on our margins in future periods.. Our contracts generally do not contain minimum purchase requirements and can generally be terminated by our customers on short notice without penalty.. We enter into written agreements with each client for our services and seek to sign multi-year contracts with our clients.  However, these contracts generally permit termination upon 30 to 90 days' notice by our clients, do not designate us as our clients' exclusive outsourced services provider, do not penalize our clients for early termination, hold us responsible for work performed that does not meet predefined specifications and do not contain minimum purchase requirements or volume commitments. Accordingly, we face the risk that our clients may cancel or renegotiate contracts we have with them, which may adversely affect our results.  If a principal client canceled or did not renew its contract with us, our results would suffer. In. 7. addition, because the amount of revenue generated from any particular client is generally dependent on the volume and activity of our clients' customers, as described above, our business depends in part on the success of our clients' products. The number of customers who are attracted to the products of our clients may not be sufficient or our clients may not continue to develop new products that will require our services, in which case it may be more likely for our clients to terminate their contracts with us. Clients can generally reduce the volume of services they outsource to us without any penalties, which would have an adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and overall financial condition.. We depend on several large clients in the telecommunications industry and our strategy partially depends on a trend of telecommunications companies continuing to outsource services. If the telecommunications industry suffers a downturn or the trend toward outsourcing reverses, our business will suffer.. Our key clients in the telecommunications industry include companies in the wire-line, wireless, cable and broadband lines of business.  Currently, our business is largely dependent on continued demand for our services from clients in this industry and on trends in this industry to purchase outsourced services. A significant change in this trend could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Client consolidation could result in a loss of business that would adversely affect our operating results.. The telecommunications industry has had a significant level of consolidation discussion. We cannot assure that additional consolidations will not occur in which our clients acquire additional businesses or are acquired themselves. Such consolidations may decrease our business volume and revenue, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our lack of a wide geographic diversity outside of North America may adversely affect our ability to serve existing customers or limit our ability to obtain new customers.. Although we currently conduct operations in Canada, Honduras, Jamaica, the Philippines and the United States, we do not have a wide geographic diversity. Our lack of such diversity could adversely affect our business if one or more of our clients decide to move their existing business process outsourcing services offshore. It may also limit our ability to gain new clients that may require business process service providers to have this greater flexibility across differing geographies.. If we decide to open facilities in, or otherwise expand into, additional countries, we may not be able to successfully establish operations in the markets that we target.  There are certain risks inherent in conducting business in other countries including, but not limited to, exposure to currency fluctuations, difficulties in complying with foreign laws, unexpected changes in government programs, policies, regulatory requirements and labor laws, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, political instability, and potentially adverse tax consequences.  There can be no assurance that one or more of such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, growth prospects, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to maximize our facility capacity utilization.. Our profitability is influenced by our facility capacity utilization. The majority of our business involves technical support and customer care services initiated by our clients' customers, and as a result, our capacity utilization varies, and demands on our capacity are, to some degree, beyond our control. We have experienced, and in the future may experience periods of idle capacity from opening new facilities where forecasted volume levels do not materialize. In addition, we have experienced, and in the future may experience idle peak period capacity when we open a new facility or terminate or complete a large client program. These periods of idle capacity may be exacerbated if we expand our facilities or open new facilities in anticipation of new client business because we generally do not have the ability to require a client to enter into a long-term contract or to require clients to reimburse us for capacity expansion costs if they terminate their relationship with us or do not provide us with anticipated service volumes. From time to time, we assess the expected long-term capacity utilization of our facilities. Accordingly, we may, if deemed necessary, consolidate or close under-performing facilities in order to maintain or improve targeted utilization and margins.. We may incur impairment losses and restructuring charges in future years as a result of closing facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain optimal facility capacity utilization.. If client demand declines due to economic conditions or otherwise, we may not be able to leverage our fixed costs as effectively, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 8. Our foreign operations subject us to the risk of currency exchange fluctuations.. Because we conduct a material portion of our business outside the United States we are exposed to market risk from changes in the value of the Canadian dollar, the Honduran lempira, the Jamaican dollar, and the Philippine peso.  Material fluctuations in exchange rates impact our results through translation and consolidation of the financial results of our foreign operations and, therefore, may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  The revenue we earn is generally priced and invoiced in U.S. dollars, but the costs under those contracts may be denominated in Canadian dollars, Philippine pesos and, to a lesser extent, the Honduran lempira and Jamaican dollar.  Therefore, the fluctuations in the U.S. dollar to these currencies can cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations.  We engage in hedging activities relating to our exposure to such fluctuations in the value of the Canadian dollar and the Philippine peso.  We do not enter into hedging agreements for the Honduran lempira or the Jamaican dollar.  Our hedging strategy, including our ability to acquire the desired amount of hedge contracts, may not sufficiently protect us from strengthening of these currencies against the U.S. dollar.. Our foreign operations are subject to social, political and economic risks that differ from those in the United States.. We conduct a significant portion of our business and employ a substantial number of people outside of the United States.  During 2017, we generated approximately 41.5% or $121.4 million of our revenue from operations outside the United States.  Circumstances and developments related to foreign operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations include, but are not limited to, the following factors:. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain regions;. • differing employment practices and labor issues;. • local business and cultural factors that differ from our usual standards and practices;. • volatility in currencies;. • currency restrictions, which may prevent the transfer of capital and profits to the United States;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and other laws;. • potentially adverse tax consequences;. • the responsibility of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, e.g., with respect to corrupt practices, employment and licensing;. • the impact of regional or country-specific business cycles and economic instability;. • political instability, uncertainty over property rights, civil unrest, political activism or the continuation or escalation of terrorist activities; and. • access to capital may be more restricted, or unavailable on favorable terms or at all in certain locations.. Our global growth (including growth in new regions in the United States) also subjects us to certain risks, including risks associated with funding increasing headcount, integrating new offices, and establishing effective controls and procedures to regulate the operations of new offices and to monitor compliance with regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws.. Although we have committed substantial resources to expand our global platform, if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global business or to adequately manage operational fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. If we are not able to hire and retain qualified employees, our ability to service our existing customers and retain new customers will be adversely affected.. Our success is largely dependent on our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain qualified employees. Our business is labor intensive and, as is typical for our industry, continues to experience high personnel turnover. Our operations, especially our technical support and customer care services, generally require specially trained employees, which, in turn, requires significant recruiting and training costs. Such turnover adversely affects our operating efficiency, productivity and ability to fully respond to client demand, thereby adversely impacting our operating results.   Some of this turnover can be attributed to the fact that we compete for labor not only with other call centers but also with other similar-paying jobs, including retail, services industries, food service, etc.  As such, improvements in the local economies in which we operate can adversely affect our ability to recruit agents in those locations.  Further increases in employee turnover or failure to effectively manage these high attrition rates would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The addition of new clients or implementation of new projects for existing clients may require us to recruit, hire, and train personnel at accelerated rates. We may not be able to successfully recruit, hire, train, and retain sufficient qualified personnel to adequately staff for existing business or future growth, particularly if we undertake new client relationships in industries in. 9. which we have not previously provided services. Because a substantial portion of our operating expenses consists of labor-related costs, labor shortages or increases in wages (including minimum wages as mandated by the U.S. and Canadian federal governments, employee benefit costs, employment tax rates, and other labor related expenses) could cause our business, operating profits, and financial condition to suffer.  Economic and legislative changes in the U.S. may encourage organizing efforts in the future which, if successful, could further increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity.. Our operating costs may increase as a result of higher labor costs.. We, like a number of companies in our industry, have sought to contain our labor costs by limiting salary increases and payment of cash bonuses to our employees. From time to time, the local economies in some of the locations in which we operate experience growth, which causes pressure on labor rates to remain competitive within the local economies.  If these growth trends continue, we may need to further increase salaries or otherwise compensate our employees at higher levels in order to remain competitive.  Recent legislation with respect to raising the minimum wage has been passed in certain U.S. states in which we operate, which will likely lead to higher wages in certain facilities.  Higher salaries or other forms of compensation are likely to increase our cost of operations. If such increases are not offset by increased revenue, they will negatively impact our financial results. Conversely, if labor rates decrease due to higher unemployment in the current economic downturn, our cost of operations may decrease.  In the past, some of our employees have attempted to organize a labor union, and economic and legislative changes may encourage organizing efforts in the future, which, if successful, could further increase our recruiting and training costs and could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity.. Failure to attract and retain key management personnel may adversely impact our strategy execution and financial results.. Our ability to attract, successfully integrate and retain key management personnel could have a significant impact on our ability to compete or to execute on our business strategy.  Changes in key management personnel may temporarily disrupt our operations as the new management becomes familiar with our business.  Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend to a significant extent on our ability to attract, motivate and retain key management personnel.. Our strategy depends on companies continuing to outsource non-core services.. Some of our clients have been decreasing the number of firms they rely on to provide outsourced services.  Due to financial uncertainties and the potential reduction in demand for our clients' products and services, our clients and prospective clients may decide to further consolidate the number of firms on which they rely for outsourced services.  Under these circumstances, our clients may cancel current contracts with us, or we may fail to attract new clients, which will adversely affect our financial condition.. Our business relies heavily on technology and computer systems, which subjects us to various uncertainties.. We have invested in sophisticated and specialized telecommunications and computer technology and have focused on the application of this technology to meet our clients' needs. We anticipate that it will be necessary to continue to invest in and develop new and enhanced technology on a timely basis to maintain our competitiveness. Capital expenditures may be required to keep our technology up-to-date. There can be no assurance that any of our information systems will be adequate to meet our future needs or that we will be able to incorporate new technology to enhance and develop our existing services.  There can be no assurance that any technology or computer system will not encounter outages or disruptions.  When outages occur we may incur remediation expenses, penalties under customer contracts or loss of customer confidence.  Moreover, investments in technology, including future investments in upgrades and enhancements to software, may not necessarily maintain our competitiveness. Our future success will also depend in part on our ability to anticipate and develop information technology solutions that keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing client demands.. Increases in the cost of telephone and data services or significant interruptions in such services could adversely affect our business.. We depend on telephone and data services provided by various local and long distance telephone companies. Because of this dependence, any change to the telecommunications market that would disrupt these services or limit our ability to obtain services at favorable rates could affect our business. We have taken steps to mitigate our exposure to the risks associated with rate fluctuations and service disruption by entering into long-term contracts with various providers for telephone and data services and by investing in redundant circuits.  There is no obligation, however, for the vendors to renew their contracts with us or to offer the same or lower rates in the future, and such contracts are subject to termination or modification for various reasons outside of our control.. 10. In addition, there is no assurance that a redundant circuit would not also be disrupted.  A significant increase in the cost of telephone services that is not recoverable through an increase in the price of our services or any significant interruption in telephone services, could adversely affect our business.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and penalties and may cause us to lose clients.. We are dependent on IT networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our alliance partners and clients. Security breaches of this infrastructure could lead to shutdowns or disruptions of our systems and potential unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. We are also required at times to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client or customer data. As a result, we are subject to contractual terms and numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our employees, negligently disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution. Although we maintain cyber liability insurance, such insurance may not adequately or timely compensate us for all losses we may incur.  Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our employees or third parties, could result in negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We process, transmit and store personally identifiable information and unauthorized access to or the unintended release of this information could result in a claim for damage or loss of business and create unfavorable publicity.. We process, transmit and store personally identifiable information, both in our role as a service provider and as an employer. This information may include social security numbers, financial and health information, as well as other personal information. As a result, we are subject to certain contractual terms as well as federal, state and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect personally identifiable information. We take measures to protect against unauthorized access and to comply with these laws and regulations. We use the Internet as a mechanism for delivering our services to clients, which may expose us to potential disruptive intrusions. Unauthorized access, system denials of service, or failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations may subject us to contractual liability and damages, loss of business, damages from individual claimants, fines, penalties, criminal prosecution and unfavorable publicity, any of which could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, third party vendors that we engage to perform services for us may have an unintended release of personally identifiable information.. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of protected health information.. We are required to comply with applicable laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information, including, among others, the standards of The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (\"HIPAA\"). The failure to comply with any of these laws could make it difficult to expand our health care business process outsourcing business and/or cause us to incur significant liabilities.. The failure to comply with debt collection and consumer credit reporting regulations could subject us to fines and other liabilities, which could harm our reputation and business, and could make it more difficult for us to retain existing customers or attract new customers.. The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (\"FDCPA\") regulates persons who regularly collect or attempt to collect, directly or indirectly, consumer debts owed or asserted to be owed to another person, which includes our debt collection business. Many states impose additional requirements on debt collection communications and some of those requirements may be more stringent than the federal requirements. In addition, many U.S. states require a debt collector to apply for, be granted and maintain a license to engage in debt collection activities in a state. We are currently licensed (or exempt from licensing requirements) to provide debt collection services in most U.S. states.  Moreover, regulations governing debt collection are subject to changing interpretations that may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions.  We could be subject to fines or other penalties if we are determined to have violated the FDCPA, the Fair Credit Reporting Act or analogous state laws, which could make it more difficult to retain existing customers or attract new customers and could otherwise harm our business.. 11. When we make acquisitions, we could encounter difficulties that harm our business.. We may acquire companies, products, or technologies that we believe to be complementary to our business. If we engage in such acquisitions, we may have difficulty integrating the acquired personnel, operations, products or technologies. Acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities, and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire companies, products, or technologies, it may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes or increase our debt.. If we are unable to meet the debt covenant requirements under our revolving credit facility, potential growth and results of operations may suffer.. Our secured revolving credit facility contains certain affirmative and negative covenants that may limit or restrict our ability to engage in certain activities, including but not limited to, making certain investments, limiting capital expenditures, incurring additional indebtedness, and engaging in mergers and acquisitions. If we are not able to meet these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in the business or economic conditions may be limited, and we may be unable to engage in certain activities that otherwise may be beneficial to our business.  We can provide no assurance that we will be able to meet the financial covenants under our credit facility, or that in the event of noncompliance, we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments from our lender.  If we fail to comply with the terms of the agreement, our lender could decide to call any amounts outstanding immediately, and there can be no assurance that we would have adequate resources or collateral to satisfy the demand.  Any such scenario would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition.. Our largest stockholder has the ability to significantly influence corporate actions.. A. Emmet Stephenson, Jr., one of our co-founders, owns approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock.  Under an agreement we have entered into with Mr. Stephenson, so long as Mr. Stephenson beneficially owns 10% or more (but less than 30%) of our outstanding common stock, Mr. Stephenson will be entitled to designate one of our nominees for election to the board, although he has not currently exercised this right. In addition, our bylaws allow that any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock may call a special meeting of our stockholders. The concentration of voting power in Mr. Stephenson's hands, and the control Mr. Stephenson may exercise over us as described above, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that might otherwise benefit our stockholders.. Our stock price has been volatile and may decline significantly and unexpectedly.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and could be subject to wide fluctuations, in response to quarterly variations in our operating results, changes in management, the degree of success in implementing our business and growth strategies, announcements of new contracts or contract cancellations, announcements of technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, the perception that significant stockholders may sell or intend to sell their shares, or other events or factors we cannot currently foresee. We are also subject to broad market fluctuations, given the overall volatility of the current U.S. and global economies, where the market prices of equity securities of many companies experience substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additionally, because our common stock trades at relatively low volume levels, any change in demand for our stock can be expected to substantially influence market prices thereof.. Implementation of changes in tax law could have an adverse impact on our financial results. The Tax Cut and Jobs Act was signed by the President on December 22, 2017 and has significant changes to the tax laws applicable to us including a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 21%, the enactment of 100% depreciation expensing for capital expenditures and other items.  We are still reviewing the potential impacts of the recent changes; however, we cannot predict any future tax law changes which could have an impact on our future tax liabilities."
