[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Our business is subject to certain risks, including those described below. If any of the events described in the following risk factors actually occurs, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. More detailed information concerning these risks is contained in other sections of this report, including \"Business\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". Risks Related to Our Business. Recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Recessionary conditions and/or negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate value and sales volumes and high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity and financial condition.. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. The Federal Reserve Board increased the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points in. 23. December 2017 and indicated the potential for further gradual increases in the target rate depending on the economic outlook. As the federal funds rate increases, market interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery.. The geographic concentration of our core markets in Georgia makes our business highly susceptible to a downturn in the local economy and depressed banking markets, which could materially and adversely affect us.. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our banking franchise is concentrated in Georgia.  At December 31, 2017, approximately 64.6% of our loans were to borrowers located in Georgia.  A deterioration in economic conditions in the loan or residential or commercial real estate markets in our Georgia market areas could have a material adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolio, the demand for our products and services, the ability of borrowers to timely repay loans and the value of the collateral securing loans.  In addition, if the population, employment or income growth in one of our core markets is negative or slower than projected, income levels, deposits and real estate development could be adversely impacted and we could be materially and adversely affected.. An adverse change in real estate market values may result in losses and otherwise adversely affect our profitability.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 69.1% of our loan portfolio was comprised of loans with real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each loan provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. At December 31, 2017, approximately 48.3% of our loan portfolio consists of loans secured by commercial real estate, comprising $1.7 billion of total loans.. A decline in real estate values could impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon any foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amounts we receive on the sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover the outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected.. If we fail to effectively manage credit risk, our business and financial condition will suffer.. We must effectively manage credit risk.  As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms, and that the collateral securing repayment of their loans, if any, may not be sufficient to ensure repayment.  In addition, there are risks inherent in making any loan, including risks with respect to the period of time over which the loan may be repaid, risks relating to proper loan underwriting, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, including the risk that a borrower may not provide information to us about its business in a timely manner, and/or may present inaccurate or incomplete information to us, and risk relating to the value of collateral. In order to manage credit risk successfully, we must, among other things, maintain disciplined and prudent underwriting standards and ensure that our lenders follow those standards.  The weakening of these standards for any reason, such as an attempt to attract higher yielding loans, a lack of discipline or diligence by our employees in underwriting and monitoring loans, the inability of our employees to adequately adapt policies and procedures to changes in economic or any other conditions affecting customers and the quality of our loan portfolio, may result in loan defaults foreclosures and additional charge-offs and may necessitate that we significantly increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, each of which could adversely affect our net income.  As a result, our inability to manage credit risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. To the extent that we are unable to identify and consummate attractive acquisitions, or increase loans through organic loan growth, we may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which could materially and adversely affect us.. A substantial part of our historical growth has been a result of acquisitions of other financial institutions and we intend to continue to grow our business through strategic acquisitions of banking franchises coupled with organic loan growth. Previous availability of attractive acquisition targets may not be indicative of future acquisition opportunities, and we may be unable to identify any acquisition targets that meet our investment objectives. To the extent that we are unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of our strategy may be lost.  If we are able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, we must generally satisfy a number of conditions prior to completing any such transaction, including obtaining certain bank regulatory approvals, which may involve time-consuming applications and discussions with regulators and which ultimately may not be granted. Additionally, any future acquisitions may not produce the revenue, earnings or synergies that we anticipated. As our purchased credit impaired loan portfolio, which produces substantially higher yields than our organic and purchased non-credit impaired loan portfolios, is paid down, we expect downward pressure on our income. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized $34.1 million of accretion income, or 16.4% of our total interest income for the year, from. 24. the realization of accretable discounts on our purchased credit impaired loans. If we are unable to replace our purchased credit impaired loans and the related accretion with a significantly higher level of new performing loans and other earning assets due to our inability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities, a decline in loan demand, competition from other financial institutions in our markets, stagnation or deterioration of economic conditions, or other conditions, our financial condition and earnings may be adversely affected.. Our strategic growth plan contemplates additional acquisitions, which could expose us to additional risks.. Our strategic growth plans contemplate additional organic growth and potential growth through additional acquisitions.  To the extent that we are unable to increase loans through organic loan growth, or to identify and consummate attractive acquisitions, we may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and earnings.. We routinely evaluate opportunities to acquire additional financial institutions. As a result, we regularly engage in discussions or negotiations that, if they were to result in a transaction, could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition, including short- and long-term liquidity.. Our acquisition activities could be material and could require us to use a substantial amount of common stock, cash, other liquid assets, and/or incur debt. In addition, if goodwill recorded in connection with our prior or potential future acquisitions were determined to be impaired, then we would be required to recognize a charge against our earnings, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations during the period in which the impairment was recognized.. Our acquisition activities could involve a number of additional risks, including the risks of:. • incurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in management's attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. • using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets;. • incurring time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses, creating an adverse short-term effect on results of operations; and. • losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition.. In addition, we may be unable to successfully:. • maintain loan quality in the context of significant loan growth;. • identify and expand into suitable markets;. • attract significant deposits and capital to fund anticipated loan growth;. • maintain adequate common equity and regulatory capital;. • maintain adequate management personnel and systems to oversee such growth;. • maintain adequate internal audit, loan review and compliance functions; and. • implement additional policies, procedures and operating systems required to support such growth.. Failure to successfully address these and other issues related to our expansion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy.. 25. Future acquisitions may be delayed, impeded, or prohibited due to regulatory issues.. Our future acquisitions, particularly those of financial institutions, are subject to approval by a variety of federal and state regulatory agencies. The process for obtaining these required regulatory approvals has become substantially more difficult in recent years. Regulatory approvals could be delayed, impeded, restrictively conditioned or denied due to existing or new regulatory issues we have, or may have, with regulatory agencies, including, without limitation, issues related to anti-money laundering/Bank Secrecy Act compliance, fair lending laws, fair housing laws, consumer protection laws, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices regulations, Community Reinvestment Act issues, and other similar laws and regulations. We may fail to pursue, evaluate or complete strategic and competitively significant acquisition opportunities as a result of our inability, or perceived or anticipated inability, to obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, under reasonable conditions or at all. Difficulties associated with potential acquisitions that may result from these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be exposed to difficulties in combining the operations of acquired institutions into our own operations, which may prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from our acquisition activities.. We may not be able to fully achieve the strategic objectives and operating efficiencies that we anticipate in our acquisition activities. Inherent uncertainties exist in integrating the operations of an acquired institution. In addition, the markets in which we and our potential acquisition targets operate are highly competitive. We may lose existing customers, or the customers of an acquired institution, as a result of an acquisition. We also may lose key personnel from the acquired institution as a result of an acquisition. We may not discover all known and unknown factors when examining an institution for acquisition during the due diligence period. These factors could produce unintended and unexpected consequences. Undiscovered factors as a result of an acquisition could bring civil, criminal and financial liabilities against us, our management and the management of the institutions we acquire. In addition, if difficulties arise with respect to the integration process, the economic benefits expected to result from acquisitions might not occur. Failure to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire could have an adverse effect on our profitability, return on equity, return on assets, or our ability to implement our strategy, any of which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors could contribute to our not achieving the expected benefits from our acquisitions within desired time frames, if at all.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results.. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and, as a result, we are subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our earnings depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect to periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates move contrary to our position, this \"gap\" may work against us, and our earnings may be adversely affected.. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income.  Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income.  Additionally, an increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, adversely affect our current borrower's ability to repay variable rate loans, the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans and decrease loan prepayment rates. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates may adversely affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume and our overall results.. 26. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in the general level of market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, international disorder, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Adverse changes in the U.S. monetary policy or in economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us. We may not be able to accurately predict the likelihood, nature and magnitude of those changes or how and to what extent they may affect our business. We also may not be able to adequately prepare for or compensate for the consequences of such changes. Any failure to predict and prepare for changes in interest rates or adjust for the consequences of these changes may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results.. We could be subject to changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our income tax provision.. We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Any change in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations, or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments and results of operations. The taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our tax positions, which could increase our effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to audit and review by U.S. federal and state tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, changes in enacted tax laws, such as adoption of a lower income tax rate in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could impact our ability to obtain the future tax benefits represented by our deferred tax assets. In addition, the determination of our provision for income taxes and other liabilities requires significant judgment by management. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made.. Any expansion into new lines of business might not be successful.. As part of our ongoing strategic plan, we will continue to consider expansion into new lines of business through the acquisition of third parties or through organic growth and development. There are substantial risks associated with such efforts, including risks that (a) revenues from such activities might not be sufficient to offset the development, compliance, and other implementation costs, (b) competing products and services and shifting market preferences might affect the profitability of such activities, and (c) our internal controls might be inadequate to manage the risks associated with new activities. Furthermore, it is possible that our unfamiliarity with new lines of business might adversely affect the success of such actions. If any such expansions into new product markets are not successful, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our management team, and the loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our success largely depends on the continued service and skills of our existing senior executive management team, as well as other key employees, who have years of experience in the banking industry and have developed long-term customer relationships. Our growth strategy is built on our ability to retain our senior executive management team and other key employees with experience and business relationships within their respective segments.  If we do not retain the services of these individuals or if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of such individuals, our customer relationships, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our earnings.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance, among others. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. Our failure to comply with these requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, termination or suspension of our licenses, rights of rescission for borrowers, and class action lawsuits. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC rather than our shareholders. The burden of regulatory compliance has increased under current legislation and banking regulations and is likely to continue to have or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. Legislative and regulatory changes, including increases in capital requirements, as well as changes in regulatory enforcement policies and capital adequacy guidelines, are increasing our costs of doing business and, as a result, may create an advantage for our competitors who may not be subject to similar legislative and. 27. regulatory requirements. In addition, future regulatory changes, including changes to regulatory capital requirements, could have an adverse impact on our future results. Furthermore, the federal and state bank regulatory authorities who supervise us have broad discretionary powers to take enforcement actions against banks for failure to comply with applicable regulations and laws. If we fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could become subject to enforcement actions that have a material adverse effect on our future results.. This and other potential changes in government regulation or policies could increase our costs of doing business and could adversely affect our operations and the manner in which we conduct our business.. The final Basel III capital rules generally require insured depository institutions and their holding companies to hold more capital, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations.. In July 2013, the federal banking agencies published new regulatory capital rules based on the international standards, known as Basel III, that had been developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  The new rules raised the risk-based capital requirements and revised the methods for calculating risk-weighted assets, usually resulting in higher risk weights. The new rules became effective as applied to the Company and State Bank on January 1, 2015, with a phase in period that generally extends from January 1, 2015 through January 1, 2019.   In November 2017, the federal banking agencies extended the transition provisions for certain items at the 2017 transition level indefinitely.. The Basel III-based rules increase capital requirements and include two new capital measurements that will affect us, a risk-based common equity Tier 1 ratio and a capital conservation buffer. Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital is a subset of Tier 1 capital and is limited to common equity (plus related surplus), retained earnings and certain other items. Other instruments that have historically qualified for Tier 1 treatment, including noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, are consigned to a category known as Additional Tier 1 capital and must be phased out of CET1 over a period of nine years beginning in 2014. Tier 2 capital consists of instruments that have historically been placed in Tier 2, as well as cumulative perpetual preferred stock.. Beginning on January 1, 2015, our Basel III-based minimum risk-based capital requirements were (i) a CET1 ratio of 4.5%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital (CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) of 6% (up from 4%) and (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from the former requirement). Our leverage ratio requirement will remain at the 4% level now required. These requirements remain in place today. Beginning in 2016, a capital conservation buffer began to phase in over three years, ultimately resulting in a requirement of 2.5% on top of the CET1, Tier 1 and total capital requirements, resulting in a required CET1 ratio of 7%, a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of 10.5%.  As of January 1, 2018, our capital conservation buffer is 1.875%. Failure to maintain the buffer or to satisfy any of these three capital requirements will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the final rules results in higher regulatory capital standards, it is not expected to significantly impact the Company and State Bank as our current capital levels far exceed those required under the new rules.. In addition to the higher required capital ratios and the new deductions and adjustments, the final rules increased the risk weights for certain assets, meaning that we will have to hold more capital against these assets. For example, commercial real estate loans that do not meet certain new underwriting requirements must be risk-weighted at 150%, rather than the former requirement of 100%. We will also be required to hold capital against short-term commitments that are not unconditionally cancelable. All changes to the risk weights took effect in full in 2015.. In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, bank regulators may impose capital requirements that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations.  The application of more stringent capital requirements for us could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we are unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk-based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital or additional capital conservation buffers, could result in management modifying our business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back our shares.. The federal banking agencies are implementing new liquidity standards that could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business lines by forcing us to seek new sources of liquidity for them, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets.. In 2014, the federal banking agencies adopted a \"liquidity coverage ratio\" requirement for banking holding companies with $250 billion or more in total assets or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposures and their subsidiary depository. 28. institutions with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The requirement calls for sufficient \"high quality liquid assets\" to meet liquidity needs for a 30 calendar day liquidity stress scenario. In 2016, the agencies proposed a net stable funding ratio for these institutions, which imposes a similar requirement over a one-year period. Neither the liquidity coverage standard nor the net stable funding standard apply directly to us, but the substance of the standards - adequate liquidity over a 30-day period and one-year periods - may inform the regulators' assessment of our liquidity. We could be required to reduce our holdings of illiquid assets which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. regulators have not yet proposed a net stable funding ratio requirement.. The value of securities in our investment portfolio may decline in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned $906.8 million of investment securities. The fair value of our investment securities may be adversely affected by market conditions, including changes in interest rates, and the occurrence of any events adversely affecting the issuer of particular securities in our investments portfolio. We analyze our securities on a quarterly basis to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If our allowance for loan and lease losses and fair value adjustments with respect to acquired loans is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will be adversely affected.. Our success depends significantly on the quality of our assets, particularly loans. Like other financial institutions, we are exposed to the risk that our borrowers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate us for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. As a result, we may experience significant loan losses that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses with respect to our loan portfolio, in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. We also make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the diversification in our loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the economy on real estate and other collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic conditions and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period and the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security.. The application of the acquisition method of accounting in our acquisitions has impacted our allowance for loan and lease losses. Under the acquisition method of accounting, all acquired loans were recorded in our consolidated financial statements at their fair values at the time of acquisition and the related allowance for loan and lease losses was eliminated because credit quality, among other factors, was considered in the determination of fair value. To the extent that our estimates of fair values are too high, we will incur losses associated with the acquired loans. The allowance associated with our purchased credit impaired loans reflects deterioration in cash flows since acquisition resulting from our quarterly re-estimation of cash flows which involves complex cash flow projections and significant judgment on timing of loan resolution.. If our analysis or assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient, and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance for loan and lease losses would materially decrease our net income and adversely affect our general financial condition.. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan and lease losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Finally, the measure of our allowance for loan losses is dependent on the adoption and interpretation of accounting standards.  The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, recently issued a new credit impairment model, the Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL model, which will become applicable to us in 2020.  Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information. 29. about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the \"incurred loss\" model currently required under GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred.  Accordingly, we expect that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how we determine our allowance for loan losses and could require us to significantly increase our allowance.  Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our allowance for loan losses.  If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to higher credit risk by construction and development, other commercial real estate, and commercial, financial and agricultural lending.. Construction and development, commercial real estate, and commercial, financial and agricultural lending may involve higher credit risks than other forms of lending. At December 31, 2017, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our total loan portfolio: real estate construction and development  -  12.8%, other commercial real estate  -  35.5%, and commercial, financial and agricultural  -  27.6%.. Risk of loss on a construction and development loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property's value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing and the builder's ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral.. Other commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers' ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner.. Commercial, financial and agricultural loans are typically based on the borrowers' ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the assets securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.. Construction and development loans, other commercial real estate loans, and commercial, financial and agricultural loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans.. During 2015 and 2016, the banking regulators issued several warnings about higher credit risk in commercial lending, particularly in commercial real estate loans. At December 31, 2017, our outstanding commercial real estate loans were equal to 334.8% of the Bank's total risk-based capital. Our commercial real estate level is considered to be a concentration by the banking regulators. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and require banks with concentrations in commercial real estate loans such as us to have an appropriate risk management framework consisting of (i) board and management oversight, (ii) portfolio management, (iii) market analysis, (iv) credit underwriting standards, (v) portfolio stress testing and sensitivity analysis and (vi) credit risk review function.. We face additional risks due to our mortgage banking activities that could negatively impact our net income and profitability.. We acquired mortgage banking operations in certain of our acquisitions, which in addition to our legacy mortgage banking operations, expose us to risks that are different from our retail and commercial banking operations. During higher and rising interest rate environments, the demand for mortgage loans and the level of refinancing activity tends to decline, which can lead to reduced volumes of business and lower revenues, which could negatively impact our earnings. While we have been experiencing historically low interest rates, the low interest rate environment likely will not continue indefinitely. Because we sell a substantial portion of the mortgage loans we originate, the profitability of our mortgage banking operations also depends in large part on our ability to aggregate a high volume of loans and sell them in the secondary market at a gain. Thus, in. 30. addition to our dependence on the interest rate environment, we are dependent upon (a) the existence of an active secondary market and (b) our ability to profitably sell loans into that market. If our level of mortgage production declines, the profitability will depend upon our ability to reduce our costs commensurate with the reduction of revenue from our mortgage operations. In addition, mortgages sold to third-party investors are typically subject to certain repurchase provisions related to borrower refinancing, defaults, fraud or other reasons stipulated in the applicable third-party investor agreements. If the fair value of a loan when repurchased is less than the fair value when sold, we may be required to charge such shortfall to earnings.. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers or other third parties, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other sensitive business and consumer information on our computer systems and networks and third party providers.  Under various federal and state laws, we are responsible for safeguarding such information.  For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act which, among other things:  (1) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (2) requires that we provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and afford customers the right to \"opt out\" of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and (3) requires that we develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations can increase our costs.. Although we take protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve.  As a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact.  Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure, these threats may originate externally from third parties such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from within our organization.  Furthermore, we may not be able to ensure that all of our clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means.  Given the increasingly high volume of our transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified.  In addition, the increasing reliance on technology systems and networks and the occurrence and potential adverse impact of attacks on such systems and networks, both generally and in the financial services industry, have enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-security threats.  As these threats, and government and regulatory oversight of associated risks, continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to enhance or expand upon the security measures we currently maintain.. In particular, information pertaining to us and our customers is maintained, and transactions are executed, on the networks and systems of us, our customers and certain of our third-party partners, such as our payment processing and online banking platforms.  The secure maintenance and transmission of confidential information, as well as execution of transactions over these systems, are essential to protect us and our customers against fraud and security breaches and to maintain our clients' confidence.  While we have not experienced any material breaches of information security, such breaches may occur through intentional or unintentional acts by those having access or gaining access to our systems or our customers' or counterparties' confidential information, including employees.  In addition, increases in criminal activity levels and sophistication, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries, vulnerabilities in third-party technologies (including browsers and operating systems) or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology, processes and controls that we use to prevent fraudulent transactions and to protect data about us, our customers and underlying transactions, as well as the technology used by our customers to access our systems.  We cannot be certain that the security measures we or processors have in place to protect this sensitive data will be successful or sufficient to protect against all current and emerging threats designed to breach our systems or those of processors.  Although we have developed, and continue to invest in, systems and processes that are designed to detect and prevent security breaches and cyber-attacks and periodically test our security, a breach of our systems, or those of processors, could result in losses to us or our customers; loss of business and/or customers; damage to our reputation; the incurrence of additional expenses (including the cost of notification to consumers, credit monitoring and forensics, and fees and fines imposed by the card networks); disruption to our business; our inability to grow our online services or other businesses; additional regulatory scrutiny or penalties; or our exposure to civil litigation and possible financial liability-any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 31. We depend on information technology and telecommunications systems of third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security involving these systems could have an adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is highly dependent on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems, third-party servicers accounting systems and mobile and online banking platforms.  We outsource some of our major systems, such as payment processing and online banking platforms. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations.  Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions.  If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to service our customers, compromise our efficiency, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, failure of third parties to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or fraud or misconduct on the part of employees of any of these third parties could disrupt our operations or adversely affect our reputation.. It may be difficult for us to replace some of our third party vendors in a timely manner if they are unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future for any reason and if we are able to replace them, it may be at higher cost or create  customer dissatisfaction.  Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of information and the monitoring of a large number of transactions on a minute-by-minute basis, and even a short interruption in service could have significant consequences.  We also interact with and rely on financial counterparties and regulators.  Each of these third parties may be targets of the same types of fraudulent activity, computer break-ins and other cyber security breaches described above or herein, and the cyber defense measures that they maintain to mitigate the risk of such activity may be different than our own and may be inadequate.. As a result of financial entities and technology systems becoming more interdependent and complex, a cyber incident, information breach or loss, or technology failure that compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including ourselves.  Although we review business continuity and backup plans for our vendors and take other safeguards to support our operations, such plans or safeguards may be inadequate.  As a result of the foregoing, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties with whom we interact.. Additionally, regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties.  Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems, devices, or software that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. We may not be able to retain or develop a strong core deposit base or other low-cost funding sources.. We depend on checking, savings and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits as our primary source of funding for our lending activities. Our future growth will largely depend on our ability to retain and grow a strong deposit base. We derive liquidity through core deposit growth and maturity and sale of investment securities and loans. We acquired internet and correspondent banking operations in our acquisition of AloStar Bank of Commerce.  These operations provide deposits which are more volatile and rate sensitive than our core deposits.  Additionally, we have access to financial market borrowing sources on an unsecured and a collateralized basis for both short-term and long-term purposes including, but not limited to, the Federal Reserve and Federal Home Loan Banks, of which we are a member. If these funding sources are not sufficient or available, we may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources. In addition, we must compete with other banks and financial institutions for deposits.  If our competitors raise rates on their deposits, we may face deposit attrition or experience higher funding costs by increasing our deposit rates in order to maintain our customer deposit base.  As of December 31, 2017, approximately 28.1% of our deposits were non-interest bearing.  Higher funding costs will reduce our net interest margin, net interest income and net income.  If we are unable to attract and retain core deposits, to obtain third party financing on favorable terms, or to have access to interbank or other liquidity sources, our cost of funds will increase, adversely affecting the ability to generate the funds necessary for our lending operations, reducing our net interest margin, net interest. 32. income and net income.  Any decline in available funding could adversely affect our ability to continue to implement our business strategy which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We face strong competition for customers, which could prevent us from obtaining customers or may cause us to pay higher interest rates to attract customer deposits.. The banking business is highly competitive, and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, as well as super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. As customer preferences and expectations continue to evolve, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems.  Because of this rapidly changing technology, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers' needs by using technology.  Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor's new products, especially offerings that could provide cost savings or a higher return to the customer. Moreover, this competitive industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation.. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions, such as SunTrust Bank, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and BB&T. We also compete with regional and local community banks in our market. We may not be able to compete successfully with other financial institutions in our market, and we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits, accept lower yields on loans to attract loans and pay higher wages for new employees, resulting in lower net interest margin and reduced profitability. In addition, competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. If we are unable to compete effectively with those banking or other financial services businesses, we could find it more difficult to attract new and retain existing clients and our net interest margin and net interest income could decline, which would adversely affect our results of operations and could cause us to incur losses in the future.. Future growth or operating results may require us to raise additional capital, but that capital may not be available or may be dilutive.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our operations and any future growth.. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control and largely do not depend on our financial performance. Accordingly, we may be unable to raise capital when needed or on favorable terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and business. These restrictions could negatively affect our ability to operate or further expand our operations through loan growth, acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches. These restrictions may also result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our common stock.. 33. Our deposit insurance premiums could be substantially higher in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our future earnings.. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as State Bank, up to $250,000 per account. The amount of a particular institution's deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution's risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution's risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. As a result of recent FDIC assessment charges, banks are now assessed deposit insurance premiums based on the bank's average consolidated total assets less the sum of its average tangible equity, and the FDIC has modified certain risk-based adjustments, which increase or decrease a bank's overall assessment rate. This has resulted in increases to the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for many insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the Deposit Insurance Fund to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums than the recent levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums could reduce our profitability, may limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities or otherwise negatively impact our operations.. We are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and federal and state fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. The Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions.  The FDIC, the Department of Justice, and other federal and state agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations.  Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.  A successful challenge to our performance under the fair lending laws and regulations could adversely impact our rating under the Community Reinvestment Act and result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on merger and acquisition activity and restrictions on expansion activity, which could negatively impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could materially and adversely affect us, including resulting in material misstatements in our financial statements, and could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, our operating results could be harmed and it could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements in the future. Inferior controls and procedures or the identification of accounting errors could cause our investors to lose confidence in our internal controls and question our reported financial information, which, among other things, could have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we could become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and a higher risk of shareholder litigation, which could result in significant additional expenses and require additional financial and management resources.. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected if the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies are inaccurate.. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are included in this report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider \"critical\" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially affect our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, those events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.. 34. We face a risk of noncompliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations and corresponding enforcement proceedings.. The federal Bank Secrecy Act, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (which we refer to as the \"PATRIOT Act\") and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain effective anti-money laundering programs and to file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. FinCEN, established by the U.S. Treasury Department to administer the Bank Secrecy Act, is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the OFAC. Federal and state bank regulators also have focused on compliance with Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering regulations. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that we have already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions such as restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans, which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sanctions that the regulators have imposed on banks that have not complied with all requirements have been especially severe. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us.. We must respond to rapid technological changes, and these changes may be more difficult or expensive than anticipated.. We will have to respond to future technological changes. Specifically, if our competitors introduce new banking products and services embodying new technologies, or if new banking industry standards and practices emerge, then our existing product and service offerings, technology and systems may be impaired or become obsolete. Further, if we fail to adopt or develop new technologies or to adapt our products and services to emerging industry standards, then we may lose current and future customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial services industry is changing rapidly, and to remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our products, services and technologies. These changes may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate.. We are subject to losses due to the errors or fraudulent behavior of employees or third parties.. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical record-keeping errors and transactional errors. Our business is dependent on our employees as well as third-party service providers to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. When we originate loans, we rely upon information supplied by loan applicants and third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal and title information, if applicable, and employment and income documentation provided by third parties. If any of this information is misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. Any of these occurrences could result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business, potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by the lack of soundness of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships.  Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.. There is uncertainty surrounding the potential legal, regulatory and policy changes by the current presidential administration in the U.S. that may directly affect financial institutions and the global economy.. The current presidential administration has indicated that it would like to see changes made to certain financial reform regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, which has resulted in increased regulatory uncertainty, and we are assessing the potential impact on financial and economic markets and on our business.  Changes in federal policy and at regulatory agencies. 35. are expected to occur over time through policy and personnel changes, which could lead to changes involving the level of oversight and focus on the financial services industry.  The nature, timing and economic and political effects of potential changes to the current legal and regulatory framework affecting financial institutions remain highly uncertain.  At this time, it is unclear what laws, regulations and policies may change and whether future changes or uncertainty surrounding future changes will adversely affect our operating environment and therefore our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to the Acquisition of our Acquired Banks. We are subject to risks related to our acquisition transactions.. The ultimate success of our past acquisition transactions and any acquisitions (whether FDIC-assisted or unassisted transactions) in which we may participate in the future, will depend on a number of factors, including our ability:. • to fully integrate, and to integrate successfully, the branches acquired into our operations;. • to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage interest-earning assets (loans) acquired;. • to retain existing deposits and to generate new interest-earning assets in the geographic areas previously served by the acquired banks;. • to effectively compete in new markets in which we did not previously have a presence;. • to control the incremental noninterest expense from the acquired operations in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio;. • to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired operations;. • to earn acceptable levels of interest and noninterest income, including fee income, from the acquired operations; and. • to reasonably estimate cash flows for acquired loans to mitigate exposure greater than estimated losses at the time of acquisition.. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution there may be higher than average levels of service disruptions that would cause inconveniences to our new or existing customers or potentially increase the effectiveness of competing financial institutions in attracting our customers. We anticipate challenges and opportunities because of the unique nature of each acquisition. Integration efforts will also likely divert our management's attention and resources. We may be unable to integrate acquired branches or their personnel successfully, and the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisition transactions. We may also encounter unexpected difficulties or costs during the integration that could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition, perhaps materially. Additionally, we may be unable to achieve results in the future similar to those achieved by our existing banking business, to compete effectively in the market areas previously served by the acquired branches or to manage effectively any growth resulting from our acquisition transactions.. The accounting for loans acquired in connection with our acquisitions is based on numerous subjective determinations that may prove to be inaccurate and have a negative impact on our results of operations.. The loans we acquired in connection with our acquisitions have been recorded at their estimated fair value on the respective acquisition date without a carryover of the related allowance for loan and lease losses. In general, the determination of estimated fair value of acquired loans requires management to make subjective determinations regarding discount rate, estimates of losses on defaults, market conditions and other factors that are highly subjective in nature. Although we have recorded fair value adjustments based on our estimates at the date of acquisition, the loans we acquired may become impaired or may further deteriorate in value, resulting in additional losses and charge-offs to the loan portfolio. The fluctuations in national, regional and local economic conditions, including those related to local residential, commercial real estate and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs that we make to our loan portfolio and consequently reduce our capital. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur.. Loans we acquired in connection with acquisitions that have evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at the date of acquisition that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are accounted for under ASC Topic 310-30, Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality, or ASC 310-30. These purchased credit impaired loans, like purchased non-credit impaired loans, acquired in connection with our acquisitions, have been recorded at their estimated fair value on the respective acquisition date, based on subjective. 36. determinations regarding risk ratings, expected future cash flows and fair value of the underlying collateral, without a carryover of the related allowance for loan and lease losses. We evaluate these loans quarterly to assess expected cash flows. Subsequent decreases to the expected cash flows will generally result in a provision for loan losses. Subsequent increases in cash flows result in a reversal of any previously-recorded provision for loan and lease losses and related allowance for loan and lease losses, and then as a prospective increase in the accretable discount on the purchased credit impaired loans. Because the accounting for these loans is based on subjective measures that can change frequently, we may experience fluctuations in our net interest income and provisions for loan losses attributable to these loans. These fluctuations could negatively impact our results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Shares of our common stock are subject to dilution.. At February 22, 2018, we had 39,012,378 shares of common stock issued and outstanding and warrants outstanding to purchase another 52,904 shares of our common stock. Our outstanding shares of common stock include 977,662 shares of restricted stock. In addition, we have 1,759,651 unallocated shares under our 2011 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan, as amended, that remain available for future grants. If we issue additional shares of common stock in the future and do not issue those shares to all then-existing common shareholders proportionately to their interests, the issuance will result in dilution to each shareholder by reducing the shareholder's percentage ownership of the total outstanding shares of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in our common stock to decline.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • general market conditions;. • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in or failure to meet publicly disclosed expectations as to our future financial performance;. • downgrades in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or lack of research and reports by industry  analysts;. • changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies;. • any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and. • additions or departures of key personnel.. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These types of broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, shareholders have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any similar litigation against us could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and resources and harm our business or results of operations.. We may issue shares of preferred stock that would adversely affect the rights of our common shareholders.. Our authorized capital stock includes 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which no preferred shares are issued or outstanding. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock from the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock. Subject to limitations imposed by law or our articles of incorporation, our board of directors is empowered to determine:. • the designation of, and the number of, shares constituting each series of preferred stock;. • the dividend rate for each series;. • the terms and conditions of any voting, conversion and exchange rights for each series;. • the amounts payable on each series on redemption or our liquidation, dissolution or winding-up;. • the provisions of any sinking fund for the redemption or purchase of shares of any series; and. • the preferences and the relative rights among the series of preferred stock.. 37. We could issue preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the shares of our common stock and with preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends and in liquidation.. Our securities are not FDIC-insured.. Our securities, including our common stock, are not savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of State Bank, are not insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC or any other governmental agency and are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of principal."
