[1] "ITEM 1A. -  RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements in this document and those we make from time to time through our senior management are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements concerning the expected future revenue or earnings or concerning projected plans, performance, or development of products and services, as well as other estimates related to future operations are necessarily only estimates of future results. We cannot assure you that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements represent our current expectations and are inherently uncertain. We do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from results anticipated in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:. RISKS RELATED TO MODUSLINK'S SUPPLY CHAIN BUSINESS. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue and or profits from a small number of clients and adverse industry trends or the loss of one or more of any of those clients could significantly damage our business.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue by providing supply chain management services to a small number of clients. Our business and future growth will continue to depend in large part on the industry trend towards outsourcing supply chain management and other business processes. If this trend does not continue or declines, demand for our supply chain management services will decline and our financial results could suffer.. In addition, the loss of a significant amount of business or program with any key client could cause our revenue and or profits to decline and our financial results could suffer.. For the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, the Company's 10 largest clients accounted for approximately 70%, 71% and 76% of consolidated net revenue, respectively. Sales to Client A accounted for approximately 15%, 13%, and 10% of the Company's consolidated net revenue for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Sales to Client B accounted for approximately 10%, 13%, and 19% of the Company's consolidated net revenue for the fiscal years ended July 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We expect to continue to derive the vast majority of our consolidated net revenue and or profits from sales to a small number of key clients. In general, we do not have any agreements which obligate any client to buy a minimum amount of services from us, or to designate us as its sole supplier of any particular services. The loss of business with any key clients, or a decision by any one of our key clients to significantly change or reduce the services we provide, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, demand for our clients' products is subject to ever-changing consumer tastes and depends on our client nimbleness in responding to these shifts by introducing improved and/or new products. If any of our key clients fail to respond successfully to market shifts, we would be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our revenue and or profits from key clients will not decline in future periods.. In addition, ModusLink has been designated as an authorized replicator for Microsoft. This designation provides a license to replicate Microsoft software products and documentation for clients who want to bundle licensed software with their hardware products. This designation is annually renewable at Microsoft's discretion. A failure to maintain authorized replicator status could have a material adverse effect on our business and our revenue.. We may have difficulty achieving and sustaining operating profitability, and if we deplete our working capital balances, our business will be materially and adversely affected.. For the fiscal years ended July 31, 2017 and 2016, we reported operating losses of $19.8 million and $40.6 million, respectively. Although we have reduced our cost of revenues and selling, general & administrative expenses, we anticipate that we may continue to incur significant fixed operating expenses in the future, including both cost of revenue and selling, general and administrative expenses. Therefore, since our revenue is subject to fluctuations, we cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain operating income in the future. We may also use significant amounts of cash in an effort to increase the efficiency and profitability of our business. At July 31, 2017, we had consolidated cash and cash equivalents of approximately $110.7 million and current liabilities of approximately $149.2 million. If we are unable to achieve or sustain operating profitability, we risk depleting our working capital balances and our business will be materially adversely affected.. 5. Table of Contents. Because our contracts do not contain minimum purchase requirements and we sell primarily on a purchase order basis, we are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand by clients, which could decrease revenue and materially adversely affect our financial results.. Our contracts generally do not contain minimum purchase requirements and we sell primarily on a purchase order basis. Therefore, our sales are subject to demand variability by our clients, which is difficult to predict, has fluctuated historically and may continue to fluctuate, sometimes materially from year to year and even from quarter to quarter. The level and timing of orders placed by these clients vary for a variety of reasons, including seasonal buying by end-users, individual client strategies, the introduction of new technologies, the desire of our clients to reduce their exposure to any single supplier and general economic conditions. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demands of our clients, we may lose clients because we have an inadequate supply of their products or insufficient capacity in our sites, or in the alternative, we may have excess inventory or excess capacity, either of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results.. Disruption in the economy and financial markets could have a negative effect on our business.. The global economy and financial markets had experienced extreme disruption during the last several years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices and liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. The businesses of our clients, and in turn our business, is highly dependent on consumer demand, which may been affected by an economic downturn, the volatility in securities prices and is highly uncertain. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address these market conditions. However, there can be no assurance that there will not be deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies, which could then lead to challenges in the operation of our business. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of clients and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. We are unable to predict the likelihood, duration and severity of disruptions in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business and financial condition.. A decline in the technology and consumer products sectors or a reduction in consumer demand generally could have a material adverse effect on our business.. A large portion of our revenue comes from clients in the technology and consumer products sectors, which is intensely competitive, very volatile and subject to rapid changes. Declines in the overall performance of the technology and consumer products sectors have in the past and could in the future adversely affect the demand for supply chain management services and reduce our revenue and profitability from these clients. In addition, industry changes, such as the transition of more collateral materials from physical form to digital form, and the convergence of functionality of smart phones, could lessen the demand for certain of our services or devices we currently handle. To the extent recent uncertainty in the economy or other factors result in decreased consumer demand for our clients' products, we may experience a reduction in volumes of client products that we handle, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results.. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly.. Our operating results have fluctuated widely on a quarterly basis during the last several years. We expect that we may experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, have contributed to these quarterly fluctuations in the past and may continue to contribute to fluctuations. Therefore, operating results for future periods are difficult to predict, and prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. These factors include:. <U+0095>    how well we execute on our strategy and operating plans;. <U+0095>    implementation of our strategic initiatives and achievement of expected results of these initiatives;. <U+0095>    demand for our services;. <U+0095>    consumer confidence and demand;. <U+0095>    specific economic conditions in the industries in which we compete;. <U+0095>    general economic and financial market conditions;. <U+0095>    timing of new product introductions or software releases by our clients or their competitors;. <U+0095>    payment of costs associated with our acquisitions, sales of assets and investments;. <U+0095>    timing of sales of assets and marketable securities;. 6. Table of Contents. <U+0095>    market acceptance of new products and services;. <U+0095>    seasonality;. <U+0095>    temporary shortages in supply from vendors;. <U+0095>    charges for impairment of long-lived assets, including restructuring in future periods;. <U+0095>    political instability or natural disasters in the countries in which we operate;. <U+0095>    actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates reflected in our accompanying consolidated financial statements;. <U+0095>    changes in accounting rules;. <U+0095>    changes in tax rules and regulations;. <U+0095>    changes in labor laws;. <U+0095>    availability of temporary labor and the variability of available rates for the temporary labor;. <U+0095>    unionization of our labor and contract labor; and. <U+0095>    implementation of automation.. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful or indicative of our future performance. In some fiscal quarters our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline.. We must maintain adequate levels of inventory in order to meet client needs, which present risks to our financial position and operating results.. We must purchase and maintain adequate levels of inventory in order to meet client needs rapidly and on a timely basis. The markets, including the technology sector served by many of our clients, are subject to rapid technological change, new and enhanced product specification requirements, and evolving industry standards. These changes may cause inventory on hand to decline substantially in value or to rapidly become obsolete. The majority of our clients offer protection from the loss in value of inventory. However, our clients may become unable or unwilling to fulfill their protection obligations and the inability of our clients to fulfill their protection obligations could lower our gross margins and cause us to record inventory write-downs. If we are unable to manage the inventory on hand with our clients with a high degree of precision, we may have insufficient product supplies or we may have excess inventory, resulting in inventory write-downs, which may harm our business, financial position and operating results.. Our ability to obtain particular products or components in the quantities required to fulfill client orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. We have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with our suppliers. We may occasionally experience a supply shortage of some products as a result of strong demand or problems experienced by our suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of those products may increase, or the products may not be available at all. Accordingly, an inability to secure and maintain an adequate supply of products, packaging materials or components to fulfill our client orders on a timely basis, or a failure to meet clients' expectations could result in lost revenue, lower client satisfaction, negative perceptions in the marketplace, potential claims for damages and have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we are not able to establish or maintain sites where requested, or if we fail to retain key clients at established sites, our client relationships, revenue and expenses could be seriously harmed.. Our clients have, at times, requested that we add capacity or open a facility in locations near their sites. If we do not elect to add required capacity at sites near existing clients, maintain sites or establish sites near existing or potential clients, clients may decide to seek other service providers. In addition, if we lose a significant client of a particular site or open or expand a site with the expectation of business that does not materialize, operations at that site could become unprofitable or significantly less efficient and we may need to incur restructuring costs. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results.. We may encounter problems in our efforts to increase operational efficiencies.. We continue to seek to identify ways to increase efficiencies and productivity and effect cost savings. In addition to already undertaken projects designed to increase our operational efficiencies, including the standardization to a global solutions platform. 7. Table of Contents. through an integrated ERP system, the opening of new solution centers in low cost areas to expand client offerings and to effect cost savings and the implementation of a model utilizing centralized \"hub\" locations to service multiple \"spoke\" locations across the Americas, Asia and Europe regions, our new executive team is continuing its review across the organization designed to improve our operations, including a commitment to automate certain facilities. We cannot assure you that these projects will result in the realization of the expected benefits that we anticipate in a timely manner or at all. We may encounter problems with these projects that will divert the attention of management and/or result in additional costs and unforeseen project delays. If we, or these projects do not achieve expected results, our business, financial position and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.. We are subject to risks of operating internationally.. We maintain significant operations outside of the United States, and we may expand these operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to manage these international operations. These international operations require significant management attention, financial resources and are subject to numerous and varied regulations worldwide, some of which may have an adverse effect on our ability to develop or maintain our international operations in accordance with our business plans or on a timely basis.. We currently conduct business in many countries including China, Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Ireland, and Singapore, among others, in addition to our United States operations. During the year ended July 31, 2017, approximately 76% of the Company's consolidated net revenue was generated internationally. A portion of our international revenue, cost of revenue and operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating results. There is also additional risk if the foreign currency is not freely traded. Some currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi, are subject to limitations on conversion into other currencies, which can limit or delay our ability to repatriate funds or engage in hedging activities. While we may enter into forward currency exchange contracts to manage a portion of our exposure to foreign currencies, future exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. There are other risks inherent in conducting international operations, including:. <U+0095>    added fulfillment complexities in operations, including multiple languages, currencies, bills of materials and stock keeping units;. <U+0095>    the complexity of ensuring compliance with multiple U.S. and foreign laws, particularly differing laws on intellectual property rights, export control, taxation and duties; and. <U+0095>    labor practices, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, political and social instability, health crises or similar issues, and potentially adverse tax consequences.. In addition, a substantial portion of our business is conducted in China, where we face additional risks, including the following:. <U+0095>    the challenge of navigating a complex set of licensing and tax requirements and restrictions affecting the conduct of business in China by foreign companies;. <U+0095>    difficulties and limitations on the repatriation of cash;. <U+0095>    currency fluctuation and exchange rate risks;. <U+0095>    protection of intellectual property, both for us and our clients;. <U+0095>    evolving regulatory systems and standards, including recent tax law and labor law changes;. <U+0095>    difficulty retaining management personnel and skilled employees; and. <U+0095>    expiration of tax holidays.. Our international operations increase our exposure to international laws and regulations. Noncompliance with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, could result in unexpected costs and potential litigation. For example, the governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our products and services or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities; foreign countries may impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers; or a governmental authority could make an unfavorable determination regarding our operations, any of which could make it more difficult to conduct our business and have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.. 8. Table of Contents. If we are unable to manage these risks, we may face significant liability, our international sales may decline and our business, operating and financial results may be adversely affected.. We may be affected by strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns by our employees.. Some of our international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or represented by works councils or labor unions. We believe our relations with our employees are generally good; however, we may experience strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns by employees. A strike, work stoppage or slowdown may affect our ability to meet our clients' needs, which may result in the loss of business and clients and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The terms of future collective bargaining agreements also may affect our competitive position, our financial condition and results of operations.. Change in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations.. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including:. <U+0095>    the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;. <U+0095>    the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;. <U+0095>    changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. <U+0095>    adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;. <U+0095>    increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process R&D, impact of costs associated with business combinations and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;. <U+0095>    changes in available tax credits;. <U+0095>    changes in share-based compensation;. <U+0095>    changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles;. <U+0095>    the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes;. <U+0095>    increases in tax rates in various jurisdictions; and. <U+0095>    the expiration of tax holidays.. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods.. The gross margins in the Supply Chain Business are low, which magnify the impact of variations in revenue and operating costs on our financial results.. As a result of intense price competition in the technology products and consumer products marketplaces, the gross margins in our Supply Chain Business are low, and we expect them to continue to be low in the future. These low gross margins magnify the impact of variations in revenue and operating costs on our financial results. Increased competition arising from industry consolidation and/or low demand for products may hinder our ability to maintain or improve our gross margins. Portions of our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders. Our current ability to forecast the amount and timing of future order volumes is difficult, and we expect this to continue because we are highly dependent upon the business needs of our clients, which are highly variable. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to mitigate any further reductions in gross margins. We may also be required to spend money to restructure our operations should future demand fall significantly in one or more facilities. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure in response to competitive price pressures, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. We continue to be subject to intense competition.. The markets for our services are highly competitive and often lack significant barriers to entry enabling new businesses to enter these markets relatively easily. Numerous well-established companies and smaller entrepreneurial companies are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing products and services that will compete with our offerings. The market for supply chain management products and services is very competitive, and the intensity of the competition is expected to continue to. 9. Table of Contents. increase. Any failure to maintain and enhance our competitive position would limit our ability to maintain and increase market share, which could result in serious harm to our business. Increased competition may also result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors will continue to have greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources. We may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors. Competitive pressures may also force prices for supply chain management products and services down and these price reductions may reduce our revenue. The competition we face may also increase as a result of consolidation within the supply chain management and logistics industries. For example, if as a result of consolidation, our competitors are able to obtain more favorable terms from their suppliers, offer more comprehensive services to their customers, or otherwise take actions that increase their competitive strengths, our competitive position and therefore our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. The trend toward outsourcing of supply chain management and logistics activities, either globally or within specific industries that we serve, may change, thereby reducing demand for our services.. Our growth strategy is partially based on the assumption that the trend toward outsourcing of supply chain management and logistics services will continue. Third-party service providers like ourselves are generally able to provide such services more efficiently than otherwise could be provided \"in-house\", primarily as a result of our expertise and lower and more flexible employee cost structure. However, many factors could cause a reversal in the outsourcing trend. For example, our clients may see risks in relying on third-party service providers, or they may begin to define supply chain management and logistics activities as within their core competencies and decide to perform these operations themselves. If our clients are able to develop supply chain management expertise or improve the cost structure of their in-house supply chain activities, we may not be able to provide such clients with an attractive alternative for their supply chain management and logistics needs. If our clients in-source significant aspects of their supply chain operations, or if potential new clients decide to continue to perform their own supply chain activities in-house, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if our current and potential clients choose to change their sourcing strategy, wherein they utilize multiple supply chain management and logistics service providers, this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The physical or intellectual property of our clients may be damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost while in our possession, subjecting us to litigation and other adverse consequences.. In the course of providing supply chain management services to our clients, we often have possession of or access to their physical and intellectual property, including consigned inventory, databases, software masters, certificates of authenticity and similar valuable physical or intellectual property. If this physical or intellectual property is damaged, misappropriated, stolen or lost, we could suffer:. <U+0095>    claims under client agreements or applicable law, or other liability for damages;. <U+0095>    delayed or lost revenue due to adverse client reaction;. <U+0095>    negative publicity; and. <U+0095>    litigation that could be costly and time consuming.. We could be subject to infringement claims and other intellectual property disputes.. Our business employs a broad range of intellectual property and from time to time, we have been, and will continue to be, subject to third-party claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights. These claims may damage our business by:. <U+0095>    subjecting us to significant liability for damages;. <U+0095>    resulting in invalidation of our proprietary rights;. <U+0095>    resulting in costly license fees in order to settle the claims;. <U+0095>    being time-consuming and expensive to defend even if the claims are not meritorious; and. <U+0095>    resulting in the diversion of our management's time and attention.. We may be liable if third parties misappropriate personal information of our clients or our clients' customers.. We often handle personal information as part of our e-Business offering. Any security breach or inadvertent release of this information could expose us to risks of loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations. If third parties are. 10. Table of Contents. able to penetrate our network or telecommunications security or otherwise misappropriate the personal information or credit card information of our clients' customers or if we give third parties improper access to such information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. They could also include claims for other misuses of personal information, including unauthorized marketing purposes. These claims could result in litigation. Liability for misappropriation of this information could be significant. Further, any resulting adverse publicity arising from investigations could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We depend on third-party software, systems and services.. Our business and operations rely on third parties to provide products and services, including IT products and services, and shipping and transportation services. We may experience operational problems attributable to the installation, implementation, integration, performance, features or functionality of third-party software, systems and services. Any interruption in the availability or usage of the products and services provided by third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business or operations.. The funds held for clients may be subject to credit risk.. In the course of providing services to our clients, we at times have possession of client funds. The funds are maintained at financial institutions and the balances associated with these funds are at times without and in excess of federally insured limits. If these funds are impaired, misappropriated or stolen, we could suffer:. <U+0095>    claims under client agreements or applicable law, or other liability for damages;. <U+0095>    delayed or lost revenue due to adverse client reaction;. <U+0095>    negative publicity; and. <U+0095>    litigation that could be costly and time consuming.. Material disruption in our information systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations.. We rely on our information systems to process transactions on behalf of our clients, summarize our operating results and manage our business. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches and catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes and acts of war or terrorism.. To keep pace with changing technology, we must continuously implement new information technology systems as well as enhance our existing systems. The successful execution of some of our growth strategies is dependent on the design and implementation of new systems and technologies and/or the enhancement of existing systems, in particular the expansion of our online e-commerce capabilities.. The reliability and capacity of our information systems is critical to our operations and the implementation of our growth initiatives. Any disruptions affecting our information systems, or delays or difficulties in implementing or integrating new systems, could have an adverse effect on our business, in particular our e-commerce operations, and results of operations.. OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE COMPANY. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss carry-forwards (\"NOLs\").. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal and state corporate income tax rates, our NOLs and other carry-forwards could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise federal and state taxable income. If we do not have sufficient federal and state taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Consequently, in addition to dependence on the generation of future business profits, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our substantial NOLs will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable acquisition or investment candidates, and once identified, successfully consummating an acquisition of or investment in these candidates.. Additionally, federal NOLs are subject to annual limitations under the change of ownership rules within Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change occurs when the percentage of stock held by one or more 5-percent. 11. Table of Contents. shareholders increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest stock ownership held by such shareholders at any time within a prescribed period, usually three years. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOLs to offset taxable income. As discussed in Note 14 of the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 below, on October 17, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a Tax Benefit Preservation Plan (\"Tax Plan\") intended to reduce the likelihood that changes in the Company's investor base have the unintended effect of limiting the Company's use of its Tax Benefits. The Tax Plan is intended to require any person acquiring shares of the Company's securities equal to or exceeding 4.99% of the Company's outstanding shares to obtain the approval of the Board of Directors. This would protect the Tax Benefits because changes in ownership by a person owning less than 4.99% of the Company's stock are considered and included in one or more public groups in the calculation of \"ownership change\" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code. However, there can be no assurance that the Tax Plan would be effective under all circumstances. On October 9, 2014, the Tax Plan was amended by our Board of Directors to extend the expiration of the Tax Plan until October 17, 2017. Following the stockholders' approval of the Protective Amendment (as described in the following paragraphs) at the Company's 2014 Annual Meeting, the Tax Plan was further amended so that it expired at the close of business on December 31, 2014.. On December 29, 2014, the Company filed an Amendment to its Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the \"Protective Amendment\") with the Delaware Secretary of State to protect the significant potential long-term tax benefits presented by its net operating losses and other tax benefits (collectively, the \"NOLs\"). The Protective Amendment was approved by the Company's stockholders at the Company's 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on December 9, 2014. As a result of the filing of the Protective Amendment with the Delaware Secretary of State, the Company amended its Tax Benefit Preservation Plan so that it expired at the close of business on December 31, 2014.. The Protective Amendment limits certain transfers of the Company's common stock, to assist the Company in protecting the long-term value of its accumulated NOLs. The Protective Amendment's transfer restrictions generally restrict any direct or indirect transfers of the common stock if the effect would be to increase the direct or indirect ownership of the common stock by any person (as defined in the Protective Amendment) from less than 4.99% to 4.99% or more of the common stock, or increase the percentage of the common stock owned directly or indirectly by a Person owning or deemed to own 4.99% or more of the common stock. Any direct or indirect transfer attempted in violation of the Protective Amendment will be void as of the date of the prohibited transfer as to the purported transferee. The Board of Directors of the Company has discretion to grant waivers to permit transfers otherwise restricted by the Protective Amendment.. In accordance with the Protective Amendment, Handy & Harman (\"HNH\"), a related party, requested, and the Company granted HNH and its affiliates, a waiver under the Protective Amendment to permit their acquisition of up to 45% of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock in the aggregate (subject to proportionate adjustment, the \"45% Cap\"), in addition to acquisitions of common stock in connection with the exercise of certain warrants of the Company (the \"Warrants\") held by Steel Partners Holdings L.P. (\"SPH\"), an affiliate of HNH, as well as a limited waiver under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law for this purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing, HNH and its affiliates (and any group of which HNH or any of its affiliates is a member) are not permitted to acquire securities that would result in an \"ownership change\" of the Company for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that would have the effect of impairing any of the Company's NOLs. The foregoing waiver was approved by the independent directors of the Company.. The amount of NOLs that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOLs or our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred, and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOLs to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOLs to us could be substantially reduced.. We may have problems raising or accessing capital we need in the future.. In recent years, we have financed our operations and met our capital requirements primarily through funds generated from operations, the sale of our securities and borrowings from lending institutions. Market and other conditions largely beyond our control may affect our ability to engage in future sales of our securities, the timing of any sales, and the amount of proceeds we receive from sales of our securities. Even if we are able to sell our securities in the future, we may not be able to sell at favorable prices or on favorable terms. In addition, this funding source may not be sufficient in the future, and we may need to obtain funding from outside sources. However, we may not be able to obtain funding from outside sources. In addition, even if we find outside funding sources, we may be required to issue to those outside sources securities with greater rights than those currently possessed by holders of our common stock. We may also be required to take other actions, which may lessen the value of our common stock or dilute our common stockholders, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us or issuing. 12. Table of Contents. additional shares of common stock. If we experience difficulties raising capital in the future, our business could be materially adversely affected.. If financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to borrow funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate purposes.. We depend on important employees, and the loss of any of those employees may harm our business.. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and other key employees, as well as management of our subsidiaries. The familiarity of these individuals with technology and service-related industries makes them especially critical to our success. Our success is also dependent on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate high quality personnel. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees may harm our business.. Our strategy of expanding our business through acquisitions of other businesses and technologies presents special risks.. We may expand our business in certain areas through the acquisition of businesses, technologies, products and services from other businesses. We may also seek to identify new business acquisition opportunities with existing or prospective taxable income, or from which we can realize capital gains. Acquisitions involve a number of special problems, including:. <U+0095>    the need to incur additional indebtedness, issue stock (which may have rights superior to the rights of our common stockholders and which may have a dilutive effect on our common stockholders) or use cash in order to complete the acquisition;. <U+0095>    difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with the existing businesses;. <U+0095>    diversion of management attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets;. <U+0095>    strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations;. <U+0095>    the working capital needs for acquired companies may be significant;. <U+0095>    we may acquire a new line of business in which we have no operating history and the success of such new business cannot be assured;. <U+0095>    exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and. <U+0095>    increased risk of costly and time-consuming litigation, including stockholder lawsuits.. We may not be able to successfully address these problems. Our future operating results may depend to a significant degree on our ability to successfully identify suitable acquisitions, negotiate such acquisitions on acceptable terms, complete such transactions, integrate acquisitions and manage operations.. The price of our common stock has been volatile and may fluctuate.. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Our common stock has traded with a closing price as low as $1.21 per share and as high as $2.02 per share during the year ended July 31, 2017. Future market movements unrelated to our performance may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Steel Partners Holdings L.P. and its affiliates may have interests that conflict with the interests of our other stockholders and have significant influence over corporate decisions.. Steel Partners Holdings L.P. (\"Steel Partners\"), Handy & Harman, Ltd. (\"HNH\"), Steel Partners, Ltd. (\"SPL\") and SPH Group Holdings LLC (\"SPHG Holdings\") collectively owned greater than 37% of our outstanding capital stock as of July 31, 2017. Steel Partners, HNH, SPL and SPHG Holdings will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company and might adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.. 13. Table of Contents. On December 24, 2014, the Company entered into a Management Services Agreement with SP Corporate Services LLC (\"SP Corporate\"), effective as of January 1, 2015 (as amended, the \"Management Services Agreement\"). SP Corporate is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Steel Partners and is a related party. Pursuant to the Management Services Agreement, SP Corporate provided the Company and its subsidiaries with the services of certain employees, including certain executive officers, and other corporate services. The Management Services Agreement had an initial term of six months. On June 30, 2015, the Company entered into an amendment that extended the term of the Management Services Agreement to December 31, 2015 and provided for automatic renewal for successive one year periods, unless and until terminated in accordance with the terms set forth therein, which include, under certain circumstances, the payment by the Company of certain termination fees to SP Corporate. On March 10, 2016, the Company entered into a Second Amendment to the Management Services Agreement with SPH Services, Inc. (\"SPH Services\") pursuant to which SPH Services assumed rights and responsibilities of SP Corporate and the services provided by SPH Services to the Company were modified pursuant to the terms of the amendment. SPH Services, which has since changed its name to Steel Services Ltd. (\"Steel Services\") is the parent of SP Corporate and an affiliate of SPH Group Holdings LLC. On March 10, 2016, the Company entered into a Transfer Agreement with SPH Services pursuant to which the parties agreed to transfer to the Company certain individuals who provide corporate services to the Company.. During the year ended July 31, 2017, pursuant to the Management Services Agreement, the Company paid a fixed monthly fee of $175,000 in consideration for the services and incremental costs as incurred. Pursuant to a third amendment to the Management Services Agreement, effective September 1, 2017, the fixed monthly fee paid by the Company to Steel Services was reduced from $175,000 per month to $95,641 per month. The fees payable under the Management Services Agreement are subject to review and such adjustments as may be agreed upon by the parties.. Members of our Board of Directors also have significant interests in Steel Partners and its affiliates, which may create conflicts of interest.. Some of the members of our Board of Directors also hold positions with Steel Partners and its affiliates. Specifically, Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Chairman of the Board, is the Executive Chairman of the general partner of Steel Partners and holds various other positions with affiliates of Steel Partners. Glen M. Kassan, our Vice Chairman, is the managing director and operating partner of an affiliate of Steel Partners. As a result, these individuals may face potential conflicts of interest with each other and with our stockholders. They may be presented with situations in their capacity as our directors that conflict with their fiduciary obligations to Steel Partners and its affiliates, which in turn may have interests that conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.. We may incur non-cash impairment charges related to long-lived assets.. We test long-lived assets for impairment if a triggering event occurs. Long-lived asset impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment and the use of significant estimates related to valuation such as discount rates, long-term growth rates and the level and timing of future cash flows. As a result, several factors could result in the impairment of some or all of our long-lived assets in future periods, including, but not limited to further weakening of the global economy, continued weakness in the industry, or failure of the Company to reach our internal forecasts which could impact our ability to achieve our forecasted levels of cash flows.. It is not possible at this time to determine if any such future impairment charge would result from these factors, or if it does, whether such charges would be material. We will continue to review our long-lived assets for possible impairment. We cannot be certain that a downturn in our business or changes in market conditions will not result in an impairment of long-lived assets and the recognition of resulting expenses in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations for those periods.. Investing in securities is risky and speculative.. We invest in Trading Securities and Available-for-Sale securities. Our ability to earn returns on our investment, or even recover our capital, is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including the success of our portfolio companies' businesses, and the market. We typically own a minority position in our portfolio companies, which may afford us representation on the board of directors of a portfolio company, but does not give us control over the entity. As a result we may have limited, if any, influence over our portfolio companies' businesses and strategies. We cannot assure you that we will earn any returns or recover our invested capital.. 14. Table of Contents. Future proxy contests could be disruptive and costly and the possibility that activist stockholders may wage proxy contests or gain representation on or control of our Board of Directors could cause uncertainty about the direction of our business.. Future proxy contests, if any, could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing our strategic plan. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of changes to composition of the Board of Directors may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of the business, instability or lack of continuity which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential clients, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. In addition, disagreement among our directors about the direction of our business could impair our ability to effectively execute our strategic plan.. Litigation pending against us could materially impact our business and results of operations.. We are currently a party to various legal and other proceedings. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings. These matters may involve substantial expense to us, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and our results of operations. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any litigation.. Management's determination that a material weakness exists in our internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse impact on the Company.. We are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In Item 9A of this Annual Report, management reports that a material weakness exists in the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Due to this material weakness, management has concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. We are actively engaged in developing and implementing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. Any failure to implement effective internal controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls, among other things, could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock, and may require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control system.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR 5.25% SENIOR CONVERTIBLE NOTES. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including relating to the Company's outstanding balance of the 5.25% Convertible Senior Notes (the \"Notes\"), depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors, some which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow or that we will be able to borrow funds in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt, meet working capital requirements and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital and credit markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. In addition, holders of the Notes may convert all or any portion of their notes at their option at any time prior to the close of business or the business day immediately preceding their maturity date. This conversion may lessen the value of our common stock and/or dilute our common stockholders.. Despite existing debt levels, we may incur substantially more debt, which would increase the risks associated with our leverage.. We, and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments at that time, some of which may be secured debt. The indenture governing the Notes (Note 9 of the accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 below) does not contain any financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the payment of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, incurrence of liens or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. As a result, we will not be restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt or recapitalizing our debt. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we, and they now face could intensify and could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage.. 15. Table of Contents"
