[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Many factors could have an effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The factors described below represent our principal risks.. Risks Related to our Industry. Global steelmaking overcapacity and imports of steel into the United States have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, United States steel prices, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Global steelmaking capacity currently exceeds global consumption of steel products, which adversely affects United States and global steel prices. Such excess capacity sometimes results in steel manufacturers in certain countries exporting steel and steel products, including pre-fabricated long-product steel, at prices that are lower than prevailing domestic prices, and sometimes at or below their cost of production. Excessive imports of steel and steel products, including pre-fabricated steel, into the United States, such as in recent years, have exerted, and may continue to exert, downward pressure on United States steel and steel products prices, which adversely affects our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Furthermore, anticipated additional domestic steel capacity could increase this global overcapacity.  This, in turn, may also adversely impact domestic demand for ferrous scrap and our ferrous metallics margins.  United States steel producers compete with many foreign producers, including those in China, Vietnam and other Asian and European countries. Competition from foreign producers is typically strong and is periodically exacerbated by weakening of the economies of certain foreign steelmaking countries. Additionally, low iron ore prices, resulting in disruption of the scrap price correlation to iron ore, leads to reduced global costs to produce steel, further depressing steel import prices.  A higher volume of steel exports to the United States tend to occur at depressed prices when steel producing countries experience periods of economic difficulty, decreased demand for steel products or excess capacity. The global steelmaking overcapacity is exacerbated by Chinese steel production capacity that far exceeds that country's demand and has made China a major global exporter of steel, resulting in weakened global steel pricing than otherwise would be expected.. In addition, we believe the downward pressure on, and periodically depressed levels of, United States steel prices in recent years have been further accentuated through imports of steel involving dumping and subsidy abuses by foreign steel producers. Some foreign steel producers are owned, controlled or subsidized by foreign governments. As a result, decisions by these producers with respect to their production, sales and pricing are sometimes influenced to a greater degree by political and economic policy considerations than by prevailing market conditions, realities of the marketplace or consideration of profit or loss. However, while some tariffs, duties and quotas have been put into effect for certain steel products imported from a number of countries that have been found to have been unfairly pricing steel imports to the United States, some foreign steel subject to these duties, tariffs and quotas circumvent the penalties by processing in or transporting through a foreign country not subject to the penalties.  Additionally, there is no assurance that already imposed tariffs, duties and quotas will remain in place or that new ones, even if justified, will be levied and even when imposed many of these are only short-lived. When such tariffs, duties or quotas expire or if others are further relaxed or repealed, or if relatively higher United States steel prices make it attractive for foreign steelmakers to export their steel products to the United States, despite the presence of duties, tariffs or quotas, the resurgence of substantial imports of foreign steel could create downward pressure on United States steel prices.. Our industry, as well as the industries of many of our customers and suppliers upon whom we are dependent, is affected by domestic and global economic factors including periods of slower than anticipated economic growth and the risk of a new recession.. Our financial results are substantially dependent not only upon overall economic conditions in the United States and globally, including Europe and in Asia, but also as they may affect one or more of the industries upon which we depend for the sale of our products. Global actions, including political actions, could result in changing economic conditions in the United States and globally, the effects of which are not known at this time.  Additionally, periods of slower than anticipated economic growth could reduce customer confidence and adversely affect demand for our products and further adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Metals industries have historically been vulnerable to significant declines in consumption and product pricing during periods of economic downturn or continued uncertainty, including the pace of domestic non-residential construction activity.. Our business is also dependent upon certain industries, such as construction, automotive, manufacturing, transportation, heavy and agriculture equipment, and pipe and tube (including OCTG) markets, and these industries are also cyclical in nature. Therefore, these industries may experience their own fluctuations in demand for our products based on such things as economic conditions, raw material and energy costs, consumer demand and infrastructure funding decisions by governments. Many of these factors are beyond our control. As a result of volatility in our industry or in the industries we serve, we may have difficulty increasing or maintaining our level of sales or profitability. If our industry or the industries we serve were to suffer a downturn, then we may experience an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 16. A prospective decline in consumer and business confidence and spending, which is often coupled with reductions in the availability of credit or increased cost of credit, as well as volatility in the capital and credit markets, could adversely affect the business and economic environment in which we operate and the profitability of our business. We are also exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers and customers. If the availability of credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of our customers' business operations is curtailed or if the cost of that credit is increased the resulting inability of our customers or of their customers to either access credit or absorb the increased cost of that credit could adversely affect our business by reducing our sales or by increasing our exposure to losses from uncollectible customer accounts. A disruption of the credit markets could also result in financial instability of some of our suppliers and customers. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the interruption of production at the facilities of our customers, the reduction, delay or cancellation of customer orders, delays or interruptions of the supply of raw materials we purchase, and bankruptcy of customers, suppliers or other creditors. Any of these events may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our level of production and our sales and earnings are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of the cyclical nature of the steel industry and some of the industries we serve.. The steel manufacturing business is cyclical in nature, and the selling price of the steel we make may fluctuate significantly due to many factors beyond our control. Furthermore, a number of our products are commodities, subject to their own cyclical fluctuations in supply and demand in both metal consuming and metal generating industries, including the construction and manufacturing industries. The timing, magnitude and duration of these cycles and the resulting price fluctuations are difficult to predict. The sale of our manufactured steel products is directly affected by demand for our products in other cyclical industries, such as construction, automotive, manufacturing, transportation, heavy and agriculture equipment, and pipe and tube (including OCTG) markets. Economic difficulties, stagnant or slow global economies, supply/demand imbalances and currency fluctuations in the United States or globally could decrease the demand for our products or increase the amount of imports of steel into the United States, which could decrease our sales, margins and profitability.. The scrap metal recycling industry has historically been, and is expected to remain, highly cyclical and this could have a material adverse effect on our metals recycling operations' results.. Scrap metal prices remain volatile, and operating results within the metals recycling industry in general have historically been, and are expected to remain, highly cyclical in nature. Similarly, but not necessarily paralleling the price fluctuations in the steel business, the purchase prices for automobile bodies and various other grades of obsolete and industrial scrap, as well as the selling prices for processed and recycled scrap metals we utilize in our own manufacturing process, or which we resell to others through our metals recycling operations, are also volatile. During periods of excess domestic supply or increased imports, scrap metal prices may become or remain depressed and adversely affect the sales, profitability and margins of our scrap business. As a metals recycler, we may attempt to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices by adjusting the scrap metal purchase prices we pay to others, but our ability to do this may be limited by competitive or other factors during periods of low scrap prices, when inbound scrap flow may slow considerably, as scrap generators hold on to their scrap in hopes of getting higher prices later. As such, a prolonged period of low scrap prices could reduce our ability to obtain, process, and sell recycled materials, and this could adversely affect our metals recycling operations' results. Conversely, periodic increased foreign demand for scrap can result in an outflow of available domestic scrap, as well as resulting higher scrap prices domestically that cannot always be passed on to domestic scrap consumers, thereby further reducing available domestic scrap flows and scrap margins, all of which could adversely affect our sales and profitability of our metals recycling operations. Additionally, during periods of high demand and resulting higher scrap prices, ferrous scrap consumers may seek and develop ferrous scrap alternatives, including pig iron and DRI. The availability and pricing of these scrap alternatives in the domestic market may have a longer term impact on scrap pricing, particularly in prime grades, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and margins.. Volatility and major fluctuations in scrap metal, pig iron, zinc and graphite electrode prices and availability, and our potential inability to pass higher costs on to our customers may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins.. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials, including scrap metal and scrap substitute products such as pig iron, pelletized iron and other supplies such as zinc, graphite electrodes and ferroalloys. Our principal raw material is scrap metal derived primarily from end-of-life automobiles, industrial scrap, railroad cars, railroad track materials, agricultural machinery and demolition scrap from obsolete structures, containers and machines. The prices for scrap are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including demand by United States and international steel producers, freight costs and speculation. The prices for scrap have varied significantly in the past, may vary significantly in the future and do not necessarily fluctuate in tandem with the price of steel. Moreover, some of our integrated steel producer competitors are not as dependent as we are on scrap as a part of their raw material melt mix, which, during periods of high scrap costs relative to the cost of blast furnace iron used by the integrated producers, give them a raw material cost advantage over mini-mills. While our vertical integration into the metals recycling business, through our OmniSource operations, and into the ironmaking business, through our IDI facility, should enable us to continue being a cost-effective supplier to our own steelmaking operations, for some of our metallics requirements, we will still need to rely on other metallics and raw material suppliers, as well as upon general industry supply conditions for the balance of our needs.. Purchase prices for auto bodies, scrap metal and scrap substitute products such as pig iron that we consume, and selling prices for scrap and recycled metals that we sell to third parties are volatile and beyond our control. While OmniSource attempts to respond to changing recycled metal selling prices through adjustments to its metal purchase prices, its ability to do so is limited by competitive and other market factors. Changing prices could potentially impact the volume of scrap metal available to us and the volume and realized margins of processed metals we sell.. 17. The availability and prices of raw materials may also be negatively affected by new or existing laws and regulations, allocation by suppliers, interruptions in production, accidents or natural disasters, changes in exchange rates, global price fluctuations, the availability and cost of transportation, and competing uses for raw materials.  As a major producer of galvanized steel products, we purchase and consume a large amount of zinc, which is currently at historically high prices, and may have an effect on our profit margins.  Due to its use in other industries, demand for the primary raw material (needle coke) used in the production of graphite electrodes has recently expanded, leading to increased price of graphite electrodes, and possible shortage.  Graphite electrodes are a critical raw material in our steelmaking.  Any inability to secure a consistent supply of graphite electrodes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. If prices for ferrous metallics increase by a greater margin than corresponding price increases for the sale of our steel products, we may not be able to recoup such cost increases from increases in the selling prices of steel products. Conversely, depressed prices for ferrous scrap may constrain its supply, which may adversely affect our metals recycling operations and also the availability of certain grades of scrap for our steelmaking operations. Additionally, our inability to pass on all or any substantial part of any cost increases during periods of rapidly rising scrap prices, through scrap or other surcharges, or to provide for our customers' needs because of the potential unavailability of key raw materials or other inputs, may result in production slow downs or curtailments or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. The cost and availability of electricity and natural gas are also subject to volatile market conditions.. Steel producers like us consume large amounts of energy, inasmuch as mini-mills melt ferrous scrap in electric arc furnaces and use natural gas to reheat steel or steel billets for rolling into finished products. We rely on third parties for the supply of energy resources we consume in our steelmaking activities. The prices for and availability of electricity, natural gas, oil and other energy resources are also subject to volatile market conditions, often affected by weather conditions as well as political and economic factors beyond our control. As large consumers of electricity and gas, we must have dependable delivery in order to operate. Accordingly, we are at risk in the event of an energy disruption, including power outages or power unavailability. Prolonged blackouts or brownouts or disruptions caused by natural disasters or by political considerations would substantially disrupt our production. Since a significant portion of our finished steel products are delivered by truck, unforeseen fluctuations in the price of fuel attributable to fluctuations in crude oil prices would also have a negative impact on our costs or on the costs of many of our customers. In addition, changes in certain environmental regulations in the United States, including those that may impose output limitations or higher costs associated with climate change or greenhouse gas emissions legislation could substantially increase the cost of manufacturing and raw materials, such as energy, to us and other United States steel producers.. Fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our business.. Fluctuations in the value of the dollar can be expected to affect our business. A strong United States dollar, such as recently experienced, makes imported products less expensive, potentially resulting in more imports of steel products into the United States by our foreign competitors, while a weak United States dollar may have the opposite impact on imports.. Compliance with and changes in environmental and remediation requirements could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs.. Existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or as may be interpreted in the future, as well as future laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to comprehensive local, state, federal and international statutory and regulatory environmental requirements relating to, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe generation, storage, treatment, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and secondary materials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe discharge of materials into the air, including periodic changes to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards and to emission standards;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe management, treatment and discharge of wastewater and storm water;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe use and treatment of groundwater;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe remediation of soil and groundwater contamination;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tclimate change legislation or regulation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe need for and the ability to timely obtain air, water or other environmental permits;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timely reporting of certain chemical usage, content, storage and releases;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe remediation and reclamation of land used for iron mining;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural resource damages; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe protection of our employees' health and safety.. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, which affect our steelmaking, metals recycling, ironmaking, and copper and aluminum production operations, is a significant factor in our business. We are required to obtain and comply with environmental permits and licenses, and failure to obtain or renew or the violation of any permit or license could result in substantial fines and penalties, capital expenditures, operational changes, suspension of operations and/or the closure of a subject facility. Similarly, delays, increased costs and/or the imposition of onerous conditions to the securing or renewal of permits could have a material adverse effect on these operations.. 18. Private parties might also bring claims against us under citizen suit provisions and/or for property damage or personal injury allegedly resulting from our operations. Moreover, legal requirements change frequently, are subject to interpretation and have tended to become more stringent over time. Uncertainty regarding adequate pollution control levels, testing and sampling procedures, and new pollution control technology are factors that may increase our future compliance expenditures. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of future compliance with environmental requirements or their effect on our operations. Although we work hard to be in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, legal requirements frequently change and are subject to interpretation. New laws, regulations and changing interpretations by regulatory authorities, together with uncertainty regarding the application of existing requirements are among the factors that may increase our future expenditures to comply with environmental requirements. The cost of complying with existing laws or regulations as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or with future laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our manufacturing and metals recycling operations produce significant amounts of by-products, some of which are handled as solid or hazardous waste. For example, our steel mills generate electric arc furnace (EAF) dust, which the United States Environmental Protection Agency (United States EPA) and other regulatory authorities classify as hazardous waste and regulate accordingly unless recycled in an exempt manner.. In addition, the primary feed materials for the shredders operated by our metals recycling operations include automobile bodies and obsolete household appliances. A portion of the feed materials consist of unrecyclable material known as shredder residue. If laws or regulations, the interpretation of the laws or regulations, or testing methods change with regard to EAF dust or shredder residue or other by-products created by our operations, we may incur significant additional expenditures.. Federal and state environmental laws enable the United States EPA, state agencies and certain private parties to recover from owners, operators, generators and transporters the cost of investigation and cleanup of sites at which wastes or hazardous substances were disposed. In connection with these laws, we may be required to clean up contamination discovered at our sites including contamination that may have been caused by former owners or operators of the sites, to conduct additional cleanup at sites that have already had some cleanup performed, and/or to perform cleanup with regard to sites formerly used in connection with our operations.. In addition, we may be required to pay for, or to pay a portion of, the costs of cleanup at sites to which we sent materials for disposal or recycling, notwithstanding that the original disposal or recycling activity may have complied with all regulatory requirements then in effect. Under certain laws, a party can be held jointly and severally liable for all of the cleanup costs associated with a disposal site. In practice, a liable party often splits the costs of cleanup with other potentially responsible parties. We have received notices from the United States EPA, state agencies and third parties that we have been identified as potentially responsible for the cost of investigating and cleaning up a number of disposal sites. In most cases, many other parties are also named as potentially responsible parties.. Because cleanup liability can in some cases be imposed retroactively on activities that occurred many years ago, and because the United States EPA and state agencies are still discovering sites that pose a threat to public health or the environment, we can provide no assurance that we will not become liable for significant costs associated with investigation and remediation of cleanup sites.. Increased regulation associated with climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could impose significant costs on both our steelmaking and metals recycling operations.. The United States government or various governmental agencies may introduce regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of climate change. International treaties or agreements may also result in increasing regulation of GHG emissions, including the introduction of carbon emissions limitations or trading mechanisms. Any such regulation regarding climate change and greenhouse gas, or GHG emissions, could impose significant costs on our operations and on the operations of our customers and suppliers, including increased energy, capital equipment, emissions controls, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs in order to comply with current or future laws or regulations concerning and limitations imposed on our operations by virtue of climate change and GHG emissions laws and regulations. Any adopted future climate change and GHG regulations could negatively impact our ability, and that of our customers and suppliers, to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to or not complying with such limitations.. From a medium and long-term perspective, we are likely to see an increase in costs relating to our assets that emit significant amounts of greenhouse gases as a result of these regulatory initiatives. These regulatory initiatives may impact our operations directly or through our suppliers or customers. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict the effect on our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete.. Risks Related to the Business. Our senior secured credit facility contains, and any future financing agreements may contain, restrictive covenants that may limit our flexibility.. Restrictions and covenants in our existing debt agreements, including our senior secured credit facility, and any future financing agreements, may impair our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. Specifically, these agreements may limit or restrict our ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional indebtedness;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends or make distributions with respect to our capital stock, in excess of certain amounts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepurchase or redeem capital stock;. 19.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake some investments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens on property;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake some capital expenditures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into transactions with affiliates or related persons;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissue or sell stock of certain subsidiaries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell or transfer assets; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into mergers, acquisitions or consolidations, or some joint ventures.. A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants could cause a default under our senior secured credit facility, our senior notes, or our other debt. A significant portion of our indebtedness then may become immediately due and payable if the default is not remedied.. Under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to maintain certain financial covenants tied to our leverage and profitability. Our ability to meet such covenants or other restrictions can be affected by events beyond our control. If a default were to occur, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts then outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our receivables and inventories and all shares of capital stock or other equity interests of our subsidiaries and intercompany debt held by us as collateral for our senior secured credit facility.. We may face significant price and other forms of competition from other steel producers, scrap processors and alternative materials, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation or prospects.. The global markets in which steel companies and scrap processors conduct business are highly competitive and became even more so due to consolidations in the steel and scrap industries. Additionally, in many applications, steel competes with other materials, such as aluminum, cement, composites, plastics, carbon fiber, glass and wood.  Increased use of alternative materials could decrease demand for steel and combined with increased competition could cause us to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The global steel industry suffers from overcapacity, and that excess capacity intensifies price competition for some of our products. A decrease in the global demand for steel scrap, due to market or other conditions, generally causes a decrease in the price of scrap metals. A decrease in price could result in some scrap generators exiting the marketplace which could further decrease the availability of scrap. This shortage in availability of scrap could have a material adverse effect on both our steelmaking and our metals recycling operations and thus on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. We are subject to significant risks relating to changes in commodity prices and may not be able to effectively protect against these risks.. We are exposed to commodity price risk during periods where we hold scrap metal inventory for processing or resale. Prices of commodities, including scrap, can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control. In an increasing price environment for raw materials, competitive conditions may limit our ability to pass on price increases to our consumers. In a decreasing price environment for processed scrap, we may not have the ability to fully recoup the cost of raw materials that we procure, process, and sell to our customers. In addition, new entrants into the market areas we serve could result in higher purchase prices for raw materials and lower margins from our scrap. While we typically hedge certain commodities in which the futures market is well developed, we have not hedged positions in certain commodities where futures markets are not well established. Thus, our sales and inventory position will be vulnerable to adverse changes in commodity prices, which could materially adversely impact our operating and financial performance.. Availability of an adequate source of supply is required for our metals recycling operations.. We procure our scrap inventory from numerous sources. These suppliers generally are not bound by long-term contracts and have no obligation to sell recyclable metal to us. In periods of low industry prices, suppliers may elect to hold recyclable metal to wait for higher prices or intentionally slow their metal collection activities. If a substantial number of suppliers cease selling recyclable metal to us, we will be unable to recycle metal at desired levels and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a slowdown of industrial production in the United States reduces the supply of industrial grades of metal to the metal recycling industry, resulting in our having less recyclable metal available to process and market.. We are subject to cybersecurity threats and may face risks to the security of our information technology.. Increased global cybersecurity and information technology security requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and a rise in sophisticated and targeted cybercrime pose a risk to the security and functionality of our systems, our information networks, and to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary information, financial information, customer, supplier and business partner information, and personally identifiable information, any of which could have materially adverse economic consequences.  Additionally, such cybersecurity vulnerabilities or attacks could result in an interruption of the functionality of our automated and electronically controlled manufacturing operating systems, which, if compromised, could cease, threaten, delay or slow down our ability to melt, roll or otherwise process steel or any of our other products for the duration of such interruption, which could have materially adverse economic consequences.. 20. Although we believe we have adopted procedures and controls to adequately protect our sensitive data, networks and information and operating technology and systems, there can be no assurance that a system or network failure, or cybersecurity breach, will be prevented, whether due to attacks by cyber criminals or due to employee error or malfeasance. This could lead to system interruption, production delays or downtimes and operational disruptions, and the disclosure, modification or destruction of sensitive data, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, customer, supplier and business partner relationships, financial results and results of operations, and could result in litigation or regulatory investigations or actions.  Additionally, as cybersecurity threats continue to evolve and become more sophisticated, we may need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems and information networks.. We may face risks associated with the implementation of our growth strategy.. Our growth strategy subjects us to various risks. As part of our growth strategy, we may expand existing facilities, enter into new product or process initiatives, acquire or build additional plants, acquire other businesses and assets, enter into joint ventures, or form strategic alliances that we believe will complement our existing business. These transactions will likely involve some or all of the following risks:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe risk of entering product or geographic markets in which we have little experience;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe difficulty of competing for acquisitions and other growth opportunities with companies having materially greater financial resources than us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to realize anticipated synergies or other expected benefits;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe difficulty of integrating the new or acquired operations and personnel into our existing operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe potential disruption of ongoing operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe diversion of financial resources to new operations or acquired businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe diversion of management attention from other business concerns to new operations or acquired businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of acquired businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe potential exposure to unknown liabilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe difficulty of managing the growth of a larger company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial, or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new operations or acquired businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe risk of becoming more highly leveraged;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe risk of contractual or operational liability to other venture participants or to third parties as a result of our participation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to work efficiently with joint venture or strategic alliance partners; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe difficulties of terminating joint ventures or strategic alliances.. These initiatives or transactions might be required for us to remain competitive, but we may not be able to complete any such transactions on favorable terms or obtain financing, if necessary. Future transactions may not improve our competitive position and business prospects as anticipated, and if they do not, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects may be adversely affected.. Impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations.. Occasionally, assumptions that we have made regarding products or businesses we have acquired or sought to develop about the sustainability of markets we sought to exploit, or about industry conditions that underlie our decision making when we elected to capitalize a venture turn out differently than anticipated.  In such instances, the fair value of such assets may fall below their carrying value recorded on our balance sheet.. Accordingly, we periodically test goodwill, and long-lived tangible and intangible assets to determine whether their estimated fair value is in fact less than their value recorded on our balance sheet.  If we determine that the fair value of any of these assets, from whatever cause, is less than the value recorded on our balance sheet, we are required to incur non-cash asset impairment charges, such as those recorded in current and past years, that adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurances that continued market dynamics or other factors may not result in future impairment charges.. We are subject to litigation and legal compliance risks which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. We are involved from time to time in various routine litigation matters, including administrative proceedings, regulatory proceedings, governmental investigations, environmental matters, and commercial and construction contract disputes, none of which at the present time are expected to have a material impact on our financial conditions, results of operations or liquidity. For additional information regarding legal proceedings please refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings.. In addition to risks associated with our environmental and other regulatory compliance, our international operations are subject to complex foreign and United States laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, regulations related to import-export controls, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and other laws and regulations, each of which may increase our cost of doing business and expose us to increased risk.. 21. Unexpected equipment downtime or shutdowns could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Interruptions in our production capabilities could adversely affect our production costs, products available for sale and earnings during the affected period. In addition to equipment failures, our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical pieces of steelmaking equipment, such as our furnaces, continuous casters and rolling equipment, some of which are controlled by our information technology systems, as well as electrical equipment, such as transformers. This equipment may, on occasion, be out of service as a result of unanticipated failures or other events, including cyber attacks or system failures. We have experienced and may in the future experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such equipment failures or other events. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. We have incurred, and may incur in the future, costs to idle facilities, idled facility carrying costs, or increased costs to resume production at idled facilities.. Our Minnesota ironmaking operations are indefinitely idled and should we in the future resume production, we would incur increased costs related to preparing for operation, performing any required repairs and maintenance, and training employees. Should economic or market conditions dictate, we may in the future idle additional facilities, which may require us to incur idling and carrying costs related to those facilities, as well as further increased costs should production be resumed at any idled facility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and results of operations.. Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew some of our licenses and permits.. We must receive licenses, air, water and other permits and approvals from state and local governments to conduct certain of our operations or to develop or acquire new facilities. Governmental agencies sometimes resist the establishment of certain types of facilities in their communities, including scrap metal collection and processing facilities. There can be no assurance that future approvals, licenses and permits will be granted or that we will be able to maintain and renew the approvals, licenses and permits we currently hold. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
