[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common or preferred units. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common and preferred units could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. Certain of the Company's subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans which could subject the Company to substantial cash funding requirements in the future.. The Company's ongoing operating cash flow requirements include arranging for the funding of the minimum requirements of its subsidiaries' defined benefit pension plans. As a result of the Company during 2017 acquiring the remaining shares of Handy & Harman Ltd. (\"HNH\") that it did not already own, the Company is now jointly and severally liable with Handy & Harman for that subsidiary's underfunded pension liabilities. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates, as well as health care trends and associated mortality rates, impact our defined benefit pension plan expense and funding obligations. Significant changes in these factors, including adverse changes in discount rates, investment losses on plan assets and increases in participant life expectancy, may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial condition. Required future contributions are estimated based upon assumptions such as discount rates on future obligations, assumed rates of return on plan assets and legislative changes. Actual future pension costs and required funding obligations will be affected by changes in the factors and assumptions described in the previous sentence, as well as other changes such as any plan termination or other acceleration events. See the \"Liquidity and Capital Resources\" section of this Form 10-K for additional information.. 7. We could incur significant costs, including remediation costs, as a result of complying with environmental laws or failing to comply with other extensive regulations, including banking regulations, that our businesses are subject to.. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including laws related to anti-corruption, environmental matters, banking, health and safety, import laws and export control and economic sanctions, and the sale of products and services to government entities. Some of these laws and regulations pertain to the handling, storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes, and hazardous materials and wastes. Compliance with such requirements may make it necessary for us to retrofit existing facilities with additional pollution-control equipment, undertake new measures in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of by-products and wastes or take other steps, which may be at a substantial cost to our subsidiaries. Although our subsidiaries maintain insurance coverage for certain environmental matters, they could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws. Any material violations of these laws can lead to substantial liability, revocations of discharge permits, fines or penalties, and any new laws, regulations and enforcement policies could become more stringent and significantly increase our compliance costs or limit our future business opportunities, negatively impacting our financial condition, business and results of operations.. In addition, the consumer and business lending programs offered by WebBank are subject to extensive legal requirements at the federal and state levels, described in more detail below. If WebBank or its programs do not comply with these laws, it may be subject to claims for damages, fines or penalties, and may face regulatory examination and enforcement action, and some violations could result in an underlying loan being found invalid or unenforceable, or subject to payment defenses.. Many of the customers in our Energy segment utilize hydraulic fracturing services, which is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations underground where water, sand and other additives are pumped under high pressure into the formation. Although our Energy segment is not a provider of hydraulic fracturing services, many of its services complement the hydraulic fracturing process. Fracturing regulations vary widely because they are regulated at the state level. States continue to evaluate fracturing activities and their impact on the environment. Legislation for broader federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing operations and the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process could be enacted. Additionally, the United States Environmental Protection Agency has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Our Energy segment's customers' operations could be adversely affected if additional regulation or permitting requirements were to be required for hydraulic fracturing activities, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. Failure to comply with these or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, damage to our reputation, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to manufacture, import, export and sell products and services, disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies, damage to our reputation and loss of customers and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. Compliance with these and other regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses. The products and operations of our businesses are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our financial condition.. WebBank operates in a highly regulated environment and its lending programs are subject to extensive federal and state regulation. Ongoing legislative and regulatory actions may significantly affect our liquidity or financial condition.. The consumer and business lending programs offered by WebBank are subject to extensive legal requirements at the federal and state levels. Among the laws that may be applicable to some or all of the programs offered by WebBank are:. • the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z promulgated thereunder, which require certain disclosures to borrowers regarding the terms of their loans;. • the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank Act\"), the Federal Trade Commission Act and state laws that prohibit unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices;. • the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B promulgated thereunder, which prohibit discrimination in the extension of credit on the basis of age, race, color, sex, religion, marital status, national origin, receipt of public assistance or the exercise of any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act;. • the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which governs the use of credit reports and the reporting of information to credit bureaus, and imposes restrictions on the marketing of credit products through prescreened solicitations based on credit report information;. • the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and the Military Lending Act, which impose rate limitations and other requirements in connection with the credit obligations of active duty military personnel and certain of their dependents;. 8. • federal and state laws relating to privacy and the safeguarding of personally identifiable consumer information and data breach notification;. • the Bank Secrecy Act, which relates to compliance with anti-money laundering, customer due diligence and record-keeping policies and procedures; and. • laws governing the permissibility of the interest rates and fees that are charged to borrowers.. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law in 2010, is intended primarily to overhaul the financial regulatory framework and impacts all financial institutions, including WebBank. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and Financial Stability Oversight Council, consolidated certain federal bank regulators and imposed increased corporate governance and executive compensation requirements. The amount and complexity of this and other regulations has increased WebBank's regulatory compliance burden and therefore has increased its regulatory risk.. If WebBank or its programs do not comply with these laws, it may be subject to claims for damages, fines or penalties, and may face regulatory scrutiny. In addition, some violations could result in an underlying loan being found invalid or unenforceable, or subject to payment defenses. Any of these violations could result in the imposition of liability on WebBank, although WebBank may have indemnification rights for certain claims. In addition, there could be limitations on WebBank's ongoing or future business.. WebBank offers lending programs through relationships with Marketing Partners. WebBank and its Marketing Partners are subject to supervision by the FDIC and the UDFI. The authority of the FDIC and the UDFI includes the ability to examine WebBank, the Marketing Partners and the programs. The FDIC and UDFI also may bring enforcement actions against WebBank and its Marketing Partners if they detect any violations of law. These enforcement actions could result in monetary liability on WebBank, increased compliance obligations or limitations on its ongoing and future business.. The U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. We cannot predict whether additional legislation or regulations will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Future cash flows from operations or through financings may not be sufficient to enable the Company to meet its obligations, and this would likely have a material adverse effect on its businesses, financial condition and results of operations, and credit market volatility may affect our ability to refinance our existing debt, borrow funds under our existing lines of credit or incur additional debt.. There can be no assurances that the Company or its subsidiaries will continue to have access to their lines of credit if their financial performance does not satisfy the financial covenants set forth in the applicable financing agreements. If the Company or its subsidiaries do not meet certain of its financial covenants, and if they are unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the respective lenders on terms acceptable to management, their ability to access available lines of credit could be limited, their debt obligations could be accelerated by the respective lenders and liquidity could be adversely affected.. If the Company's or its subsidiaries' cash needs are significantly greater than anticipated or they do not materially meet their business plans, or there are unanticipated downturns in the markets for the Company's and its subsidiaries' products and services, the Company or its subsidiaries may be required to seek additional or alternative financing sources. Future disruption and volatility in credit market conditions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's ability or that of its subsidiaries to refinance debt when it comes due on terms similar to our current credit facilities, or to draw upon existing lines of credit or incur additional debt if needed. There can be no assurance therefore that such financing will be available or available on acceptable terms. The inability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or through financings could impair the Company's or its subsidiaries' liquidity and would likely have a material adverse effect on their businesses, financial condition and results of operations.. Our businesses rely, and may rely, on their intellectual property and licenses to use others' intellectual property, for competitive advantage. If our businesses are unable to protect their intellectual property, are unable to obtain or retain licenses to use others' intellectual property, or if they infringe upon or are alleged to have infringed upon others' intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on their financial condition, business and results of operations.. The success of each of our businesses depends in part on the trademarks and patents that they own, or their licenses to use others', brand names, proprietary technology and manufacturing techniques. In addition to trademark and patent protection, these businesses rely on copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect their intellectual property rights. The steps they have taken to protect their intellectual property rights may not prevent third parties from using their intellectual property without their authorization or independently developing intellectual property that is similar. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our businesses' intellectual property rights effectively. Stopping unauthorized use of proprietary. 9. information and intellectual property, and defending claims of unauthorized use of others' proprietary information or intellectual property, may be difficult, time-consuming and costly and could subject our businesses to significant liability for damages and invalidate their property rights. Such unauthorized use could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage our businesses have developed, cause them to lose sales or otherwise harm their business.. We conduct operations or own interests in companies with operations outside of the U.S., which may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with companies that operate solely in the U.S.. We have operations or own interests in securities of companies with operations located outside the U.S. These holdings have additional risks, including risks relating to currency exchange, less developed or efficient financial markets than in the U.S., absence of uniform accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards, differences in the legal and regulatory environment, different publicly available information in respect of companies in non-U.S. markets, economic and political risks, and possible imposition of non-U.S. taxes. There can be no assurance that adverse developments with respect to such risks will not adversely affect our assets that are held in certain countries or the returns from these assets.. A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems could adversely affect our business.. We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. We also collect and store sensitive data, including confidential business information and personal data. These systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. Upgrading our information technology systems is costly and subject to delay, and there is no assurance new systems will provide the benefits expected. In addition, security breaches of our systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers. Any such events could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, each of which could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. State and federal laws may also require us to provide notice to affected individuals if their personal data is the subject of a breach in security, which would impose costs and could lead to additional liability and negative publicity.. WebBank's status as lender of the loans it offers, and the ability of assignees to collect interest, may be challenged, and these challenges could negatively impact WebBank's ongoing and future business.. WebBank's business includes lending programs with Marketing Partners, where the Marketing Partners provide origination servicing for the loans and subsequently purchase the loans (or interests in the loans) that are originated by WebBank. There have been litigation and regulatory actions which have challenged lending arrangements where a bank has made a loan and then sold and assigned it to an entity that is engaged in assisting with the origination and servicing of the loan. Some of these cases have alleged that the marketing and servicing entity should be viewed as the \"true creditor\" of the loans originated through the lending program, and the bank should be disregarded. If this type of challenge is successful, state law interest rate limitations and other requirements that apply to non-bank lenders would then be applicable, instead of the federal interest rate laws that govern bank lenders. Other cases have relied on the claim that even if a bank originated a loan based on the federal interest rate laws, an assignee of a bank is not permitted to rely on the federal law and is instead subject to state law limitations. Certain of these challenges have been brought or threatened in programs involving WebBank. Such cases or regulatory actions, if successfully brought against WebBank or its Marketing Partners or others could negatively impact WebBank's ongoing and future business. WebBank continues to structure its programs, and to exercise control over these programs, to address these risks, although there can be no assurance that additional cases or regulatory actions will not be brought in the future.. The Volcker Rule, which is part of the Dodd-Frank Act, restricts SPLP's flexibility to do business.. The Dodd-Frank Act added a new Section 13 to the Bank Holding Company Act, the so-called \"Volcker Rule,\" which generally restricts certain banking entities (including affiliates of depository institutions) from engaging in proprietary trading activities and acquiring or retaining ownership interests in, or sponsoring, any private equity or hedge fund (collectively, \"covered funds\"). Under the implementing regulations, WebBank (and its affiliates) are restricted from engaging in proprietary trading, or investing in or sponsoring covered funds, unless their activities qualify for a specific exemption under the rule or satisfy certain requirements under the rule. Because SPLP controls WebBank, each of SPLP and all its subsidiaries, as well as its controlled entities, are banking entities under the Volcker Rule and therefore subject to these regulations, and therefore are restricted from doing business to the extent necessary to comply with them.. 10. WebBank is subject to capital requirements, and SPLP could be called upon by the FDIC to infuse additional capital into WebBank to the extent that WebBank fails to satisfy its capital requirements.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC issued rules that implemented the Basel III changes to the international regulatory capital framework and revised the U.S. risk-based and leverage capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations in order to strengthen identified areas of weakness in capital rules and to address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.. Effective January 1, 2015 for WebBank, FDIC regulations implementing the Basel III Accord modified WebBank's minimum capital requirements by defining what constitutes capital for regulatory capital purposes and adding a 4.5% Common Equity Tier 1 ratio and increased the Tier 1 capital ratio requirement from 4% to 6%. FDIC regulations also require WebBank to comply with a total capital ratio of 8% and a leverage ratio of 4%. Additionally, a Capital Conservation Buffer (composed solely of common equity Tier 1 capital) equal to 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital requirements began to be phased in starting January 1, 2016 and will be fully implemented on January 1, 2019. The Capital Conservation Buffer is on top of the minimum risk-weighted capital ratios and will have the effect of increasing those ratios by 2.5% each when fully phased in. A failure of WebBank to maintain the aggregate minimum capital required by the Capital Conservation Buffer will impair its ability to make certain distributions (including dividends and stock repurchases) and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. A failure of WebBank to maintain capital as required by the FDIC's minimum capital requirements would subject WebBank to the FDIC's prompt corrective action regime, which may further impair WebBank's ability to make payments or distributions and may require a capital restoration plan or other corrective regulatory measures.. Federal banking agencies jointly issued a proposed rule on September 27, 2017 that would simplify the treatment of certain assets and deductions for institutions such as WebBank that are not subject to the so-called \"advanced approaches\" capital rule. The proposed rule would adjust the deduction thresholds for certain mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets, investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions, and minority interests. While the banking agencies consider comments on the proposed rule, the banking agencies adopted a rule on November 21, 2017, that provides interim relief to non-advanced approaches banking organizations by extending the regulatory capital transition periods effective in 2017 for certain items, including regulatory capital deductions, risk weights and certain minority interest limitations.. The Company currently cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects that Basel III and its implementation in the U.S. will have on WebBank and the banking industry more generally. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act codified a longstanding policy that all companies that directly or indirectly control an FDIC-insured bank are required to serve as a source of financial strength for such institution. As a result, SPLP could be called upon by the FDIC to infuse additional capital into WebBank to the extent that WebBank fails to satisfy its capital requirements, including at times that SPLP might not otherwise be inclined to provide it and even if doing so may adversely affect SPLP's ability to meet its other obligations, which include limitations on capital contributions to WebBank specified in the Company's senior secured revolving credit facility.. WebBank's lending programs depend on relationships with Marketing Partners.. WebBank offers its lending programs with Marketing Partners. If those Marketing Partners do not provide origination services or other services to WebBank, or provide those services in a faulty manner, that may negatively impact WebBank's ongoing and future business. In addition, if the Marketing Partners or other third parties do not purchase the loans (or interests in loans) that are originated by WebBank, then WebBank may need to retain those loans (or interests in loans) and that may negatively impact its ongoing and future business. Marketing Partners may rely on outside sources of capital to meet their obligations. Market conditions and other factors may affect the availability of capital for Marketing Partners. The availability of capital may also affect the volume of loans that can be originated through WebBank's lending programs. In recent periods, the availability of capital has been more limited for several of WebBank's Marketing Partners, resulting in a decrease in loan volume and a negative impact on WebBank's business.. Economic downturns could disrupt and materially harm our businesses.. Negative trends in the general economy could cause a downturn in the markets for our products and services. A significant portion of our revenues in the Diversified Industrial segment are received from customers in transportation, oil & gas exploration, and construction-related industries, which have experienced significant financial downturns in the past. These industries are cyclical and demand for their products tends to fluctuate due to changes in national and global economic conditions, availability of credit and other factors. A worsening of customer demand in these industries would adversely affect our revenues, profitability, operating results and cash flows. In our Energy segment, the level of oil & natural gas exploration and production activity in the U.S. has. 11. declined in recent periods in light of the decline in the price of oil. Reduced discovery rates of new oil & natural gas reserves, or a decrease in the development rate of reserves in our market areas, weakness in oil & natural gas prices, or our customers' perceptions that oil & natural gas prices will decrease in the future, could result in a reduction in the utilization of our equipment and result in lower revenues or rates for the services of our Energy segment. Our customers' willingness to undertake these activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by many factors over which we have no control. Our Financial Services segment could be impacted by tightening of the credit markets and other general economic declines that could result in a decrease in lending and demand for consumer loans. We may also experience a slowdown if some customers experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing due to tightness in the credit markets. Furthermore, the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers. Our assets may also be impaired or subject to write-down or write-off as a result of these conditions. These adverse effects would likely be exacerbated if global economic conditions worsen, resulting in wide-ranging, adverse and prolonged effects on general business conditions, and materially and adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity.. Our business strategy includes acquisitions, and acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the risk of management diversion and increased costs and expenses, all of which could negatively affect the Company's profitability.. Our business strategy includes, among other things, strategic acquisitions, as well as potential opportunistic acquisitions. This element of our strategy entails several risks, including the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and the need to finance such acquisitions with additional equity and/or debt.. In addition, once completed, acquisitions entail further risks, including: unanticipated costs and liabilities of the acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities, that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses, preventing the expected benefits from the transaction from being realized or achieved within the anticipating time frame; negative effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; and losing key employees of the acquired businesses. If our acquisition strategy is not successful or if acquisitions are not well integrated into our existing operations, the Company's profitability could be negatively affected.. Our subsidiaries do not have long-term contracts with all of their customers, the loss of which customers could materially adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. Our businesses are based primarily upon individual orders, sales and service agreements with customers and not long-term contracts. As such, these customers could cease buying products or using our services at any time and for any reason, and we will have no recourse in the event a customer no longer wants to purchase products from us or use our services. If a significant number of our customers elect not to purchase products or use our services, or we have to make price concessions in order to retain certain customers, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations.. We may sustain losses in our investment portfolio, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. A portion of our assets consists of investments in available-for-sale securities, which are adjusted to fair value each period, as well as other investments. An adverse change in economic conditions may result in a decline in the value of these investments. Such declines in value of available-for-sale securities will be recognized as losses upon the sale of such securities or if such declines are deemed to be other than temporary. Any adverse changes in the financial markets and resulting declines in value of our investments may result in additional impairment charges and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Litigation or compliance failures could adversely affect our profitability.. The nature of our businesses expose us to various litigation matters. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of any litigation. These lawsuits may include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages and/or injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses. In addition, developments in legal proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements, record estimates or reserves for liabilities or assets previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial condition in any particular period. Although we make. 12. accruals as we believe warranted, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation process.. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective, and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation.. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder (\"Section 404\"). Section 404 requires us to report on the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Section 404 also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls. There can be no assurance that our auditors will issue an unqualified report attesting to our internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements or our consolidated financial statements could change.. Any failure to maintain or implement new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. We may also be required to incur costs to improve our internal control system and hire additional personnel. This could negatively impact our results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Structure. The unitholders have limited recourse to maintain actions against the General Partner, the Board of Directors, our officers and the Manager.. The Limited Partnership Agreement of SPLP, or the \"Partnership Agreement,\" contains broad indemnification and exculpation provisions that limit the right of a unitholder to maintain an action against the General Partner, the Board of Directors, our officers and the Manager, or to recover losses or costs incurred due to action or inaction by these parties which have a negative effect on the Company.. Our Partnership Agreement contains certain provisions that may limit the voting rights of some unitholders.. Our Partnership Agreement contains specific provisions that are intended to comply with regulatory limitations on the ownership of our securities as a result of our ownership of WebBank. Under the Partnership Agreement, a person or group that acquires beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the common units without the prior approval of the Board of Directors may lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units in excess of 9.9%.. We may have conflicts of interest with the minority shareholders of our businesses and decisions may need to be made by disinterested directors, without the participation of directors or officers associated with the Manager and the Company. These decisions may be different from the decisions we would make, and may or may not be in the best interests of our unitholders.. Because we own less than 100% of certain affiliates, and we may engage in transactions with these affiliates from time to time, the boards of directors and officers of those businesses, including directors and officers associated with our Manager and the Company, have fiduciary duties to their respective shareholders. As a result, they may make decisions that are in the best interests of their shareholders generally but which are not necessarily in the best interest of our unitholders. In dealings with us, the directors and officers of our businesses may have conflicts of interest and decisions may have to be made without their participation. Such decisions may be different from the decisions we would make and may not be in the best interests of our common and preferred unitholders, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. There are certain interlocking relationships among us and certain affiliates of Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Executive Chairman, which may present potential conflicts of interest.. Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Executive Chairman and a substantial unitholder, is the Chief Executive Officer of our Manager. As of December 31, 2017, Mr. Lichtenstein directly owned approximately 6.1% of our outstanding common units. In addition, affiliates of our Manager beneficially own approximately 51.4% of our outstanding common units, although Mr. Lichtenstein disclaims beneficial ownership of any common units not directly held by him. We have entered into transactions and/or agreements with these entities. There can be no assurance that such entities will not have interests in conflict with our own.. 13. Certain members of our management team may be involved in other business activities that may involve conflicts of interest, possibly diverting their attention from the Company's operations.. Certain individual members of our management team, including Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Executive Chairman, and Jack L. Howard, our President, may from time to time be involved in the management of other businesses, including those owned or controlled by our Manager and its affiliates. Accordingly, these individuals may focus a portion of their time and attention on managing these other businesses. Conflicts may arise in the future between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which such individuals are involved.. Risks Related to Our Manager. We depend on Warren G. Lichtenstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Manager, and Jack L. Howard, the President of the Manager, in running our businesses. The loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results and financial condition.. Our success depends on the efforts, skills, reputation and business contacts of Warren G. Lichtenstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Manager and Jack L. Howard, the President of the Manager. While the key members of the Manager have worked for the Manager and its affiliates for many years, our Manager does not have any employment agreements with any of the key members of its management team, and their continued service is not guaranteed. The loss of the services of Mr. Lichtenstein or Mr. Howard could have a material adverse effect on our asset value, revenues, net income and cash flows and could harm our ability to maintain or grow our existing operations or pursue additional opportunities in the future.. We cannot determine the amount of the Management Fee that will be paid or Class C partnership units that will be issued over time with any certainty.. The Manager receives a fee (\"Management Fee\") at an annual rate of 1.5% of total partners' capital. Our total partners' capital will be impacted by the performance of our businesses and other businesses we may acquire in the future, as well as the issuance of additional common or preferred units. Changes in our total partners' capital and in the resulting Management Fee could be significant, resulting in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if our performance declines, assuming our total partners' capital remains the same, the Management Fee will increase as a percentage of our net income. In addition, SPH SPV-I LLC (\"SPH SPV\"), an affiliate of the Manager, holds partnership profits interests in the form of incentive units which entitle the holder generally to share in 15% of the increase in the equity value of the Company, as calculated for the twenty trading days prior to each year end. The incentive units' share of such appreciation is reflected by classifying a portion of the incentive units as Class C units of the Company. For 2017, 461,442 Class C units were issued to SPH SPV. The issuance of such Class C units will result in dilution to existing limited partners' holdings in the Company.. Our Manager's liability is limited under the Management Agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities. Such indemnification may incentivize our Manager to take unnecessary risks with respect to actions for which it will be indemnified.. Under the Management Agreement, our Manager, its members, officers, employees, affiliates, agents and legal representatives are not liable for, and we have agreed to indemnify such persons from, any loss or expense, including without limitations, any judgment, settlement, reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs and expenses incurred in connection with the defense of any actual or threatened proceeding, other than losses resulting from willful misconduct or gross negligence in the performance of such indemnified person's obligations and duties. Such indemnification may incentivize our Manager to take unnecessary risks with respect to actions for which it will be indemnified.. Risks Related to our Common and Preferred Units. We may issue additional common or preferred units, or other series of units, in the future without the consent of unitholders and at a discount to the market price of such units. In particular, sales of significant amounts of the common or preferred units may cause the respective prices of the units to decline.. Under the terms of the Partnership Agreement, additional common or preferred units, or additional series of units, may be issued without the consent of unitholders at a discount to the market price. In addition, other classes of securities may be issued with rights that are senior to or which otherwise have preferential rights to the rights of the common and preferred units. Sales of significant amounts of the common or preferred units in the public market or the perception that such sales of significant amounts may occur could adversely affect their respective market prices. Moreover, the perceived risk of any potential dilution could cause. 14. common or preferred unitholders to attempt to sell their units and investors to \"short\" the common or preferred units, a practice in which an investor sells units that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase units later at a lower price to cover the sale. Any event that would cause the number of common or preferred units being offered for sale to increase would likely cause the respective units' market price to further decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional common or preferred units in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. Transfer restrictions contained in the Company's Partnership Agreement and other factors could hinder the development of an active market for our common or preferred units.. There can be no assurance as to the volume of our common or preferred units or the degree of price volatility for our common and preferred units traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There are transfer restrictions contained in the Company's Partnership Agreement to help protect net operating tax loss carryforwards of certain of the Company's corporate subsidiaries and other portfolio companies. The transfer restrictions will expire on February 7, 2020, and they could hinder development of an active market for our common and preferred units.. Risks Related to Taxation. All statutory references in this section are to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the \"Code.\". Our common unitholders may be subject to U.S. federal, state and other income tax on their share of our taxable income, regardless of whether they receive any cash distributions from us.. The Company operates, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as a partnership and not a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. Our common unitholders will be subject to U.S. federal, state, local and possibly, in some cases, foreign income tax on their allocable share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Any future determination to declare dividends on the Company's common units will remain at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Accordingly, our common unitholders may be required to make tax payments in connection with their ownership of common units that significantly exceed their cash distributions in any given year.. Newly enacted U.S. government tax reform could have a negative impact on the results of future operations.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") was enacted which contained substantial changes to the Code, some of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Among other things, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (i) reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% beginning in 2018, (ii) generally will limit annual deductions for interest expense to no more than 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income,\" plus 100% of our business interest income for the year (iii) will permit a taxpayer to offset only 80% (rather than 100%) of its taxable income with any U.S. net operating losses (\"NOLs\") generated after 2017, and (iv) imposes a transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. With the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, our financial results for 2017 included an income tax provision of approximately $58,717 resulting from the transition tax and the revaluation of our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities to reflect the recently enacted 21% federal corporate tax rate effective January 1, 2018. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. Our tax treatment is not assured. If we are taxed as a corporation, it could adversely impact our results of operations.. A partnership is not a taxable entity, and distributions by a partnership to a partner are generally not taxable to the partnership or the partner unless the amount of cash distributed to such partner exceeds the partner's adjusted basis in its partnership interest. Section 7704 provides that generally publicly traded partnerships are taxed as corporations. However, an exception, referred to as the \"Qualifying Income Exception,\" exists with respect to publicly traded partnerships of which 90 percent or more of the gross income for every taxable year consists of \"qualifying income\" as defined in the Code. We expect that we will meet the Qualifying Income Exception.. If the Qualifying Income Exception is not available to us, then we will be treated as a corporation instead of a partnership. In that event, the deemed incorporation of SPLP should be tax-free. If we were taxed as a corporation, (i) our net income would be taxed at corporate income tax rates, thereby substantially reducing our profitability, (ii) our common unitholders would not be. 15. allowed to deduct their share of losses of SPLP and (iii) distributions to our common unitholders, other than liquidating distributions, would constitute dividends to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, and would be taxable as such.. Our structure involves complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available.. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of our common unitholders depends in some instances on interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. Our Partnership Agreement permits our General Partner to modify it from time to time, including the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction (including unrealized gain and unrealized loss to the extent allowable under U.S. federal income tax law), without the consent of our unitholders, to address certain changes in U.S. federal income tax regulations, legislation or interpretation or to preserve the uniformity of our common units. In some circumstances, such revisions could have a material adverse impact on some or all common unitholders. In addition, we formed a subsidiary partnership, to which we contributed certain of our assets (\"Subsidiary Partnership\"). To preserve the uniformity of common units, we (but not the Subsidiary Partnership) made an election permitted under Section 754, and we will adopt the remedial allocation method under Section 704(c) with respect to items of income, gain, loss and deduction attributable to assets contributed to us (which we will contribute to the Subsidiary Partnership), to account for any difference between the tax basis and fair market value of such assets at the time of contribution, or attributable to the \"book-up\" or \"book-down\" of our assets prior to their contribution to the Subsidiary Partnership, or while they were held by the Subsidiary Partnership, to account for the difference between the tax basis and fair market value of such assets at the time of a mark-to-market event. We intend generally to make allocations under Section 704(c) to our common unitholders in accordance with their respective percentage interests. However, built-in gain or built-in loss in existence and allocable to the assets we contributed to the Subsidiary Partnership, when recognized, will be allocated to our common unitholders as of the contribution date. We intend to prepare our tax returns on the basis that buyers of common units from such unitholders will not inherit such unitholders' built-in gains or built-in losses as of that date as a result of the election under Section 754. However, it is not clear whether this position will be upheld if challenged by the Internal Revenue Service. While we believe it represents the right result, there is no law directly on point.. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. A holder of common units that is a tax-exempt organization may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation to the extent that its allocable share of our income consists of unrelated business taxable income (\"UBTI\"). A tax-exempt partner of a partnership may be treated as earning UBTI if the partnership regularly engages in a trade or business that is unrelated to the exempt function of the tax-exempt partner, if the partnership derives income from debt-financed property (as we may borrow money) or if the tax-exempt organization's partnership interest itself is debt-financed.. Our subsidiaries may not be able to fully utilize their tax benefits, which could result in increased cash payments for taxes in future periods.. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and reduce the amount of cash paid for income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain limits and adjustments. If fully utilized, our subsidiaries' NOLs and other carryforwards could provide them with significant tax savings in future periods. Their ability to utilize these tax benefits in future years will depend upon their ability to generate sufficient taxable income and to comply with the rules relating to the preservation and use of NOLs, as well as potential future changes in tax laws. The potential benefit of the NOLs and other carryforwards may be limited or permanently lost as a result of the following:. • the inability to generate sufficient taxable income in future years to use such benefits before they expire;. • a change in control of our subsidiaries that would trigger limitations on the amount taxable income in future years that may be offset by NOLs and other carryforwards that existed prior to the change in control; and. • examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities could reduce the amount of NOLs and other credit carryforwards that are available for future years.. Certain of our subsidiaries maintain valuation allowances against their NOLs and other carryforwards due to uncertainty regarding their ability to generate sufficient taxable income in future periods. Their inability to utilize the NOLs and other carryforwards could result in increased cash payments for taxes in future periods."
