[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks and uncertainties. In evaluating us, the risks and uncertainties described below and the matters described in \"Forward-Looking Statements\" should be considered carefully. Should any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be adversely affected.. Our sales and operating results are affected by consumer sensitivity to economic conditions and world events. The retail apparel business is dependent upon consumer spending and, as a fashion retailer, we rely on the expenditure of discretionary income for most, if not all, of our sales. Economic factors impacting consumer confidence and levels of consumer spending include levels of employment, the housing market, the stock market, prevailing interest rates, tax policies, personal bankruptcies, energy costs and availability and cost of credit. Consumer confidence is also affected by both domestic and international events. Deterioration in the level of consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We face intense competition in the retail industry. We face intense competition for customers from department stores, specialty stores, regional and national off-price retail chains and internet and mail-order retailers. Many of these competitors are larger and have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In addition, many department stores and other competitors have become more promotional and have reduced their price points. Certain department stores and certain of our vendors have opened outlet stores which offer merchandise at prices that are competitive with ours. Many of our competitors have significant e-commerce sales. While we maintain an internet site, our e-commerce sales comprised approximately 2.9 percent of our total sales in 2017. If we fail to successfully compete, our profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Unanticipated changes in fashion trends and changing consumer preferences may adversely affect our sales. Our success depends in part upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner. Although we attempt to stay abreast of the fashion tastes of our customers and provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand, fashion trends can change rapidly and we may not accurately anticipate shifts in fashion trends and adjust our merchandise mix to appeal to changing consumer tastes in a timely manner. If we misjudge the market for our products or are unsuccessful in responding to changes in fashion trends or in market demand, we could experience insufficient inventory levels and missed opportunities, or excess inventory levels and higher markdowns, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also lose customers and market share to those of our competitors who are able to better anticipate, identify and respond to such fashion trends and market demands. Because our success depends on our brand image, our business could be materially adversely affected if new product offerings are not accepted by our customers to the same extent as past product offerings.. Our ability to sustain profitable growth is subject to our successfully implementing strategic plans. The success of our strategic plans is also dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our management and other associates and our success with third parties. The loss of key management personnel could also negatively impact the execution of our business strategy. Additional changes may be required if we are unable to successfully implement our plans or if we adopt new strategies for the future. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic. 5. Table of Contents. initiatives or that the implementation of changes will result in the benefits or costs savings at the levels that we anticipate or at all, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Our advertising, marketing and promotional strategies may be ineffective. Our profitability and results of operations may be materially affected by the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures and our ability to select the right markets and media in which to advertise. In particular, we may not be successful in our efforts to create greater awareness of our stores and promotions, identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market and specific media vehicle or determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for our advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenues.. We may be unable to raise additional capital, if needed, or to raise capital on favorable terms. If our existing cash, cash generated from operations, proceeds from our term loan and funds available under our revolving credit agreement were insufficient to fund our future operations, including capital expenditures, or repay debt when it becomes due, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing. If unfavorable capital or credit market conditions exist if and when we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms or on a timely basis, if at all. Failure to obtain capital on acceptable terms when required could have a material adverse effect on our business including an inability to fund new growth and other capital expenditures.. We may be unable to negotiate acceptable lease terms with current and potential landlords. Our growth and success depend in part on our ability to renew and enter into new leases for successful stores. There is no assurance that we will be able to re-negotiate leases at similar or satisfactory terms at the end of the lease, and we could be forced to move or exit trade areas if another favorable arrangement cannot be made. There is also no assurance that we will be able to negotiate satisfactory terms on new or replacement stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Underperforming stores can result in charges and expenses. If individual stores underperform to the point that their future estimated cash flows will not cover our un-depreciated fixed asset investment, we take an impairment charge. We also close certain underperforming stores, generally based on the lack of store profitability. Such closures subject us to costs, including lease termination payments and the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture, fixtures and inventory. For early terminations, we may incur charges for asset write-downs and remain liable for future lease obligations, which could adversely affect our profitability and results of operations.. Because of our focus on keeping our inventory at the forefront of fashion trends, extreme and/or unseasonable weather conditions could force us to have higher inventory markdowns. Our business is susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the fall season or cool weather during the spring season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A lack of adequate sources of merchandise at acceptable prices may adversely affect our sales. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon our ability to purchase fashion and brand name merchandise and to do so at acceptable wholesale prices. We continuously seek out buying opportunities and compete for these opportunities with other retailers. In the event of a further decrease in retail sales and the resulting pressure on manufacturers, the opportunities to purchase merchandise could become limited by the consolidation or demise of merchandise vendors. Our ability to obtain merchandise may also depend on manufacturers' ability to obtain vendor financing through banks and factoring companies. To the extent they are unable to secure sufficient credit, they may not be able to sell to us at acceptable terms. Although we do not depend on any single vendor or group of vendors and believe we can successfully compete in seeking out new vendors, the loss of key vendors could make it difficult for us to acquire sufficient quantities and an appropriate mix of merchandise, and to do so at acceptable prices which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Increases in the price of merchandise could increase our costs which could negatively impact our margins. The raw materials used to manufacture our goods are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, supply conditions, government regulations, trade restrictions tariffs and other unpredictable factors. Our procurement of goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which we may or may not be able to pass through to our customers. Additionally, procurement of our merchandise is subject to increases in demand for, or the price of, raw materials, services and labor. All of these factors may affect our ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond our control and could negatively impact our results of operations.. 6. Table of Contents. We are dependent on certain key personnel and our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and increases in the cost of employee compensation and benefits could impact our financial results and cash flows. Our business is dependent on attracting and retaining quality employees. Many of our employees are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. We also face challenges in recruiting and retaining talent in other areas, including management, accounting and information technology for reasons such as talent availability in our geographic areas and otherwise. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our labor costs, including hourly wages and costs of providing retirement, health and other employee benefits, and hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs, including health care legislation. Departures of key personnel could be viewed in a negative light by investors or analysts, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock.. The seasonality of our business and fluctuations in sales and operating results could cause volatility in the price of our common stock. Our business is seasonal with our highest sales occurring in the first and fourth quarters, which include the spring and holiday seasons. Our annual operating results depend significantly upon sales generated during these quarters, and any factor that negatively affects these selling seasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the entire year. Comparable store sales and quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. Our stock price is influenced by these financial fluctuations, as well as other factors, including economic conditions, the timing of promotional events, actions of competitors, inventory management, changes in fashion trends and unseasonable weather conditions.. If we experience any business interruptions or disruptions in the distribution process, our profitability could be materially affected. We may not anticipate, respond adequately to or control all of the challenges of operating our distribution operations. In the event that the orderly receipt and distribution of merchandise is disrupted, including by labor disputes at ports of entry, impeding the timeliness or fulfillment quality of the products being distributed, or any of our distribution centers becomes inaccessible, or is otherwise not fully usable, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to distribute our products, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, financial condition and operating performance.. We are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from other countries. Much of the fashion and brand name merchandise we acquire through vendors is sourced from various foreign countries. Political or financial instability, terrorism, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, raw material shortages, disruptions, strikes, work stoppages and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability of our merchandise inventory. Current discussion regarding increases in tariffs or reductions in deductibility for merchandise sourced from foreign vendors could materially affect our inventory costs, and if we are unable to pass those increases on to our customers, the increases could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, financial condition and operating performance.. Additionally, we require our vendors and the third parties from whom they source merchandise to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and our own sourcing policies such as the use of labor practices which are considered ethical in the United States and not using fur in our merchandise. We do not have the ability to control our vendors, their manufacturers or their employment and business practices. The failure of our vendors and their suppliers to comply with applicable laws and our policies could affect the availability and price of merchandise, damage our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, financial condition and operating performance.. Failure of information technology could disrupt operations and harm our business. The operation of our business and the effective execution of our merchandising and distribution strategies as well as our financial reporting and online selling processes are dependent in large measure on the effectiveness of our information technology systems as well as those of external service providers. The reliability and capacity of these technology systems are critical and any disruptions may have a material adverse impact on our business.. We could be adversely affected by unfavorable results of legal proceedings. We are continually involved in various unresolved legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business involving matters such as pricing and wage and hours matters. Often these claims are presented as potential class-action litigation. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into arrangements to settle litigation.. We do not believe that the ultimate resolution of currently pending legal proceedings or claims, either individually or in the aggregate will have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition. Litigation is inherently uncertain, however, and it is possible that an unfavorable outcome could result and that some of these matters could be material to our results of operations for any particular period.. 7. Table of Contents. We are subject to data security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. Our business and that of our third-party service providers employ systems and websites that allow us to process credit card transactions containing personally identifiable information (\"PII\"), perform online e-commerce and social media activities and store and transmit proprietary or confidential customer, employee, job applicant and other personal confidential information. Security and/or privacy breaches, acts of vandalism or terror, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming, and/or human error or other similar events could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks or intrusions. Attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur significant and additional costs, including, but not limited to the costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, engaging third-party experts and consultants and compliance costs associated with various applicable laws or industry standards regarding use and/or unauthorized disclosure of PII. As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our customers as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations. While we have implemented measures reasonably designed to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our systems or our third-party service providers' systems remain subject to privacy and security incidents including attacks by unauthorized users, corruption by computer viruses or other malicious software code, emerging cybersecurity risks, inadvertent or intentional release of confidential or proprietary information, or other similar events. We may also incur significant remediation costs, including liability for stolen customer, job applicant or employee information, repairing system damage or providing credit monitoring or other benefits to affected customers, job applicants or employees. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in the breach or compromise of technology used by us to protect transaction or other data. In addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including a breach by us or by our third-party service providers that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information.. We rely on a single supplier of shoes sold by our shoe department and disruptions with that supplier could materially affect our reputation, operations or financial results. We have an agreement with DSW to be the exclusive supplier of shoes sold in our shoe departments. We rely on DSW to determine the quantity and mix of shoes to be sold, the prices at which such items are to be sold and the fulfillment and continuing supply of inventory. If DSW is unable to provide us with sufficient amounts of inventory or inventory that meets the fashion preferences of our customers or if DSW is unable to continue being our supplier of shoes, we may attract fewer customers and experience a loss in net sales, which could materially affect our reputation, operations or financial results.. We utilize the services of two third-party service providers to operate and maintain our e-commerce website and to provide order management, customer service and fulfillment support. Disruptions with these providers or in the services they provide to us could adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial results. We have contracted with a third party service provider to create, operate and host our e-commerce website. We have contracted with a second third-party service provider to provide order management, customer service and fulfillment services. We rely on the operational, privacy and security procedures and controls of these two providers to host and operate our e-commerce business. Failure of either of these providers to adequately service these aspects of our e-commerce business could result in prolonged disruption which affects our customers' ability to utilize our website or receive the product in a timely manner. As a result, we may lose customer sales and/or experience increased costs which could affect our reputation, operations or financial results. In addition, the e-commerce operations also involve other risks which could have an effect on our results of operations including but not limited to diversion of sales from our physical stores, liability for online content, credit card fraud and risks related to the failure of the computer systems which operate the website and related support systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Acts or threats of terrorism, violence or unfavorable political conditions could harm our business. Acts of terrorism or war may disrupt commerce and undermine consumer confidence, which could negatively impact our sales by causing consumer spending to decline. Also, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain merchandise from vendors. Inability to obtain merchandise from our vendors or substitute suppliers at similar costs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. Failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements may adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to many legal and regulatory requirements, including, among others, employment, trade, healthcare, tax, securities and privacy laws and regulations. Our policies, procedures and internal controls are designed to help us comply with all applicable laws. Additional legal or regulatory requirements or more stringent interpretations of applicable requirements could increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we. 8. Table of Contents. operate and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various laws and regulations, as well as changes in laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our reputation, operations or financial results.. We previously identified and have now remediated a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If our remediation measures are insufficient, this may result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In the prior fiscal year, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. We believe this material weakness has been fully addressed by the remediation measures put in place during the 2017 fiscal year. However, if our remediation measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results."
