[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion identifies the most significant factors that may materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  These and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, may cause future results of operations to differ materially from past results or those results currently expected or desired.  The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Chemical manufacturing is inherently hazardous and may result in accidents or may require planned or unplanned production shutdowns, which may disrupt our operations or expose us to significant losses or liabilities, which may have a material impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Manufacturing facilities in the Company's industry are subject to planned and unplanned production shutdowns, turnarounds and outages.  Unplanned production disruptions may occur for external reasons, such as natural disasters, weather, disease, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation, political unrest or terrorism, or internal reasons, such as fire, maintenance or other manufacturing problems.  Certain of our production facilities are, and production facilities acquired or built in the future may be, located in areas where unplanned disruptions are more likely.  Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant amount of time to increase production or qualify with Company customers, each of which could negatively impact the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Further, some of the Company's products cannot currently be made, or made in the volume required, at more than one of the Company's locations. For some of these products, the Company has access to external market suppliers, but the Company cannot guarantee that these products will be available to it in amounts sufficient to meet its requirements or at a cost that is competitive with the Company's cost of manufacturing these products. Long-term production disruptions may cause Company customers to seek alternative supply, which could further adversely affect Company profitability.. Although the Company takes precautions to enhance the safety of its operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, the hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes are inherent in our operations. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination, discharge or injury resulting from those materials. Also, our suppliers and customers may use and/or generate hazardous materials, and we may be required to indemnify our suppliers, customers or waste disposal contractors against damages and other liabilities arising out of the production, handling or storage of our products or raw materials or the disposal of related wastes. Potential risks include explosions and fires, chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, and pipeline and storage tank leaks and ruptures. Those hazards may result in personal injury and loss of life, damage to property, damages to public health and contamination of the environment, which may result in a suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal fines, penalties and other sanctions, cleanup costs, and claims by governmental entities or third-parties. Furthermore, the Company is subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, exposure of contractors on Company premises as well as other persons located nearby, workers' compensation and other matters.. We are dependent on the continued operation of our production facilities and the loss or shutdown of operations over an extended period could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, or results of operations. The Company maintains property, business interruption, products liability and casualty insurance policies which we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, as well as insurance policies covering other types of risks, including pollution legal liability insurance.  However, some of these potential manufacturing hazards and risks may not be insurable. Moreover, even when insurable, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses resulting from the occurrence of any of these events.  Each of these insurance policies is subject to customary exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits, in accordance with industry standards and practices.  As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. There is also a risk, beyond the reasonable control of the Company, that an insurance carrier may not have the financial resources to cover an insurable loss.  As a result, the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company faces significant global competition in each of its operating segments.  If the Company cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. The Company faces significant competition from numerous global companies as well as national, regional and local companies in the markets it serves.  Many of the Company's competitors have access to greater financial resources, which may enable them to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development.  Some of the Company's competitors have their own raw material resources and may be able to produce products more economically.  In addition, some of the Company's customers have internal manufacturing capabilities that allow them to achieve make-versus-buy economics, which may result at times in the Company gaining or losing business with these customers in volumes that could adversely affect its profitability.. 6. To achieve expected profitability levels, the Company must, among other things, maintain the service levels, product quality and performance and competitive pricing necessary to retain existing customers and attract new customers.  The Company's inability to do so could place it at a competitive disadvantage relative to its competitors and if the Company cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. The volatility of raw material, natural gas and electricity costs as well as any disruption in their supply may result in increased costs and materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The costs of raw materials, natural gas and electricity represent a substantial portion of the Company's operating costs.  The principal raw materials used in the Company's products are petroleum-based or plant-based.  Natural gas is used in the Company's manufacturing sites primarily to generate steam for its manufacturing processes.  The prices of many of these raw materials have recently increased and been very volatile.  These fluctuations in prices may be affected by supply and demand factors, such as general economic conditions, manufacturers' ability to meet demand, restrictions on the transport of raw material (some of which may be viewed as hazardous), currency exchange rates, political instability or terrorist attacks, all of which are beyond the Company's control.  The Company may not be able to pass increased raw material or energy costs on to customers through increases in product prices as a result of arrangements the Company has with certain customers and competitive pressures in the market.  If the Company is unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material and energy costs or pass such increased costs on to customers, or manage any interruption to the supply of raw materials or energy, its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. The Company relies heavily on third party transportation to deliver raw materials to Company manufacturing facilities and ship products to Company customers. Disruptions in transportation or significant changes in transportation costs could affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company relies heavily on railroads, ships, barges, tank trucks and other over-the-road shipping methods to transport raw materials to its manufacturing facilities and to ship finished product to customers. Transport operations are exposed to various risks, such as extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, work stoppages, personnel shortages and operating hazards, as well as interstate and international transportation requirements. If the Company experiences transportation problems, or if there are significant changes in the cost of these services, the Company may not be able to arrange efficient alternatives and timely means to obtain raw materials or ship finished product, which could result in an adverse effect on Company revenues, costs and operating results.. Customer product reformulations or new technologies can reduce the demand for the Company's products.. The Company's products are used in a broad range of customer product applications. Customer product reformulations or development and use of new technologies may lead to reduced consumption of Company-produced products or make some Company products obsolete. It is imperative that the Company continue to develop new products to replace the sales of products that mature and decline in use. The Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if the Company is unable to successfully manage the maturation of existing products and the introduction of new products.. To the extent the Company seeks acquisition opportunities, it may not be able to make acquisitions of suitable candidates or integrate acquisitions successfully.. To the extent the Company seeks acquisition opportunities to expand into new markets and to enhance its position in existing markets throughout the world, it may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into its existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or otherwise prove beneficial to the Company.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of undisclosed or unindemnified liabilities, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and the transfer of all necessary licenses and permits, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted, and future acquisitions could result, in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses.. If the Company is unable to keep and protect its intellectual property rights, the Company's ability to compete may be negatively impacted.. The Company's patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently developing or selling similar or duplicative products and services, and there can be no assurance that the resources the Company invests to protect its. 7. intellectual property will be sufficient or that the Company's intellectual property portfolio will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of its technology. The Company could also face competition in some countries where it has not invested in an intellectual property portfolio, or where intellectual property rights are more difficult to obtain and/or assert. In addition, the Company may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. If the Company is found to infringe any third-party rights, it could be required to pay substantial damages or it could be enjoined from offering some of its products and services. Also, there can be no assurances that the Company will be able to obtain or renew from third parties the licenses it may need in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on reasonable terms.. The Company's results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, legal restrictions and taxes.. The Company has substantial operations outside the U.S.  In the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company's sales outside of the U.S. constituted approximately 42 percent of the Company's net sales.  In addition to the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K that are common to both the Company's U.S. and non-U.S. operations, the Company faces, and will continue to face, risks related to the Company's foreign operations such as:. •  variability of intellectual property laws outside the U.S. may impact enforceability and consistency of protection of intellectual property assets;. •  high levels of inflation;. •  fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect the profitability in U.S. Dollars of products and services the Company provides in international markets where payment for the Company's products and services is made in the local currency;. •  political, economic, financial and market conditions may be unstable;. •  changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;. •  differing economic cycles and adverse economic conditions;. •  trade and currency restrictions, including tariffs and currency exchange controls imposed by foreign countries;. •  changes in foreign laws and tax rates or U.S. laws and tax rates (including as a result of the implementation of recent U.S. federal income tax reform) with respect to foreign income may unexpectedly increase the rate at which the Company's income is taxed, impose new and additional taxes on remittances, repatriation or other payments by subsidiaries, or cause the loss of previously recorded tax benefits;. •  greater difficulty enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable;. •  enforceability and compliance with U.S. and foreign laws affecting operations outside of the U.S., including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (and foreign equivalents), export controls and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.. •  evolving laws and regulations over chemicals and chemical production and transportation (including, but not limited to, the June 2016 amendments to the U.S. Toxic Substances Control Act, the EU REACH regulation and changing laws related to operating permits and licenses) that could result in material costs relating to regulatory compliance, liabilities, litigation proceedings, or other impacts, such as restrictions or prohibitions on our products.. The actual occurrence of any or all of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the future.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect Company financial results.. The Company is also exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates.  The Company's results of operations are reported in U.S. dollars.  However, outside the U.S., the Company's sales and costs are denominated in a variety of currencies including the European euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Colombian peso, Philippine peso, Brazilian real, Polish zloty, Singapore dollar and Chinese RMB.  The Company translates its local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, the Company's reported international sales and earnings may be reduced because the local currency may translate into fewer U.S. dollars.  Fluctuations in exchange rates may materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 8. In all jurisdictions in which the Company operates, the Company is also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions.  These laws and regulations may limit the Company's ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the U.S. or to efficiently allocate cash to support strategic initiatives, and may limit the Company's ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into U.S. dollars.  A weakening of the currencies in which the Company generates sales relative to the foreign currencies in which the Company's costs are denominated may lower the Company's operating profits and cash flows.. The international scope of the Company's operations and corporate structure may expose the Company to potentially adverse tax consequences.. The Company is subject to taxation in and to the tax laws and regulations of multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of its operations and corporate structure. The Company is also subject to intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between its entities pursuant to, for example, purchase agreements, licensing agreements or other arrangements. Adverse developments in these laws or regulations (including pursuant to recent U.S. tax legislation, described below), or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation of these laws or regulations in any applicable jurisdiction could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction may disagree with the positions the Company has taken or intends to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of the Company's transactions, including the tax treatment or characterization of the Company's indebtedness. If any applicable tax authorities were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of the Company's transactions, it could result in the disallowance of deductions, the imposition of withholding taxes on internal deemed transfers or other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation has significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. corporations, including by reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate,  adopting elements of a territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax (Transition Tax) on all undistributed earnings and profits of certain U.S.-owned foreign corporations, introducing new anti-base erosion provisions, revising the rules governing net operating losses and the rules governing foreign tax credits, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, repealing the corporate alternative minimum tax, eliminating the domestic production activity deduction and repealing the deduction of certain performance-based compensation paid to an expanded group of executive officers. Many of these changes are effective immediately, without any transition periods or grandfathering for existing transactions. The legislation is unclear in many respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities.. Our analysis and interpretation of this legislation is preliminary and ongoing. Based on our current evaluation, we estimate that the Transition Tax will result in a material amount of additional U.S. tax liability, the total amount of which must be reflected as tax expense in 2017, when the tax legislation was enacted, despite the fact that the resulting tax may be paid over eight years. Such tax expense may be subject to adjustment in subsequent periods throughout 2018 in accordance with recent interpretive guidance issued by the SEC. Further, the changes to the deductibility of performance-based compensation may negatively impact our cash flows going forward. Finally, there may be other material adverse effects resulting from the legislation that we have not yet identified.. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect the Company in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. We continue to work with our tax advisors to determine the full impact that the recent tax legislation as a whole will have on us.. The Company's failure to comply with the anti-corruption laws of the United States and various international jurisdictions could negatively impact its reputation and results of operations.. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires the Company to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations imposed by governments around the world with jurisdiction over our operations, which may include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the \"Bribery Act\"), as well as the laws of the countries where the Company does business. These laws and regulations can apply to companies and individual directors, officers, employees and agents, and may restrict the Company's operations, trade practices, investment decisions and partnering activities. Where they apply, the FCPA and the Bribery Act prohibit, among other things, the Company and its officers, directors, employees and business partners, including joint venture partners and agents acting on the Company's behalf, from corruptly offering, promising, authorizing or providing anything of value to. 9. \"foreign officials\" for the purposes of influencing official decisions or obtaining or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The Bribery Act also prohibits non-governmental \"commercial\" bribery and accepting bribes. Part of the Company's business may involve dealings with governments and state-owned business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered \"foreign officials\" for purposes of the FCPA and the Bribery Act. The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of various governments and regulatory agencies around the world, which may bring Company personnel and agents into contact with \"foreign officials\" responsible for issuing or renewing permits, licenses, or approvals or for enforcing other governmental regulations. The Company's global operations, including in countries with high levels of perceived corruption, expose it to the risk of violating, or being accused of violating, anti-corruption laws. Any failure on the part of the Company to successfully comply with these laws and regulations may expose the Company to reputational harm as well as significant sanctions, including criminal fines, imprisonment of its employees or representatives, civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, injunctions and debarment from government contracts, as well as other remedial measures. Investigations of alleged violations can be expensive and disruptive. Compliance with these laws can increase the cost of doing business globally.  The Company maintains policies and procedures designed to assist the Company and its subsidiaries in complying with applicable anti-corruption laws. However, there can be no guarantee that these policies and procedures will effectively prevent violations by Company employees or representatives for which the Company may be held responsible, and any such violation could adversely affect the Company's reputation, business, financial position and results of operations.. The Company is subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety and product registration laws dealing with the production and sale of chemicals that could require us to incur additional costs or to reformulate or discontinue certain of our products.. The Company's operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the production and marketing of chemical substances and discharge, use, handling, transport, storage and disposal of hazardous materials into the air, soil and water.  In the U.S., these laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and state and local laws, such as California's Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (Proposition 65).  Analogous laws outside the U.S. apply to us in many jurisdictions, including, among others, the European Union's Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances Act (REACH) regulation and its Biocidal Products Regulation.  Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations is a major consideration for the Company, and to comply with some of these laws, we may need to alter our product lines, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  In addition, the transportation of certain raw materials is highly regulated and is subject to increased regulation or restrictions. These regulations may restrict or prohibit transport of these raw materials, resulting in these raw materials not being available to the Company in quantities desired by the Company or at costs attractive to the Company, which may restrict or substantially limit the Company's manufacturing operations.. Under the REACH regulation, we must submit registrations for certain substances between now and June 1, 2018, and may need to update previously submitted registrations for other substances.  The costs associated with these registrations and updates could be substantial. Moreover, if a registration was, or in the future is, not submitted by any applicable deadline, our ability to sell those products may be negatively impacted until the registration process has been completed. In addition, we manufacture, process and/or use substances being evaluated under the REACH regulation's Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) program. Impacts under this program could include requirements to discontinue certain product lines and to reformulate others, which could materially alter our marketplace position or otherwise have a material financial effect on our revenues. Some of the laws and regulations applicable to us have changed in recent years to impose new obligations that could also force us to reformulate or discontinue certain of our products. For example, the European Union is now requiring a review of existing active biocide substances, and based on this review, the European Commission or an individual member state may decide not to authorize the product for continued sale. As another example, the June 2016 amendments to TSCA now mandate that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency must designate \"high priority\" chemicals and perform a risk evaluation, which could result in a finding of \"unreasonable risk\" and a decision to promulgate new regulations to address such risk.. Compliance with environmental laws could restrict the Company's ability to expand its facilities or require the Company to modify its facilities and processes or acquire additional costly pollution control equipment, incur other significant expenses, or expose the Company to greater liability associated with its production processes and products.  The Company has incurred and will continue to incur capital expenditures and operating costs in complying with these laws and regulations.  In addition,  our operations currently use, and have historically used, hazardous materials and generate, and have historically generated, quantities of hazardous waste.  We are subject to regulatory oversight and investigation, remediation, and monitoring obligations at certain current and former U.S. Superfund sites, as well as third-party disposal sites, under federal laws and their state and local analogues, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), as well as analogous foreign laws.  In the event that new contamination is discovered, the Company may become subject to obligations.  The costs and liabilities associated with these issues may be substantial and may materially impact the financial health of the Company.. 10. The Company is also subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws that regulate the manufacture, storage, distribution and labeling of many of the Company's products, including some of the Company's disinfecting, sanitizing and antimicrobial products.  Some of these laws require the Company to have operating permits for the Company's production facilities, warehouse facilities and operations.  Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also require the Company to register the Company's products and to comply with specified requirements with respect to those products.  Additionally, those requirements, and enforcement of those requirements, may become more stringent in the future. The ultimate cost of compliance with any such requirements could be material.. Although it is our policy to comply with such laws and regulations, it is possible that we have not been or may not be at all times in material compliance with all of those requirements. If the Company fails to comply with any of these laws and regulations, including permitting and licensing requirements, it may be liable for damages and the costs of remedial actions in excess of the Company's recorded liabilities, and may also be subject to fines, injunctions or criminal sanctions or to revocation, non-renewal or modification of the Company's operating permits and revocation of the Company's product registrations.  Any such revocation, modification or non-renewal may require the Company to cease or limit the manufacture and sale of its products at one or more of the Company's facilities, which may limit or prevent the Company's ability to meet product demand or build new facilities and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any such revocation, non-renewal or modification may also result in an event of default under the indenture for the Company's notes or under the Company's credit facilities, which, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of all the Company's indebtedness.. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements, the Company has incurred and may incur in the future costs defending against environmental litigation and/or investigations brought by government agencies and private parties, including administrative proceedings.  The Company is, and may be in the future, a defendant in lawsuits brought by parties alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. A significant judgment or settlement, to the extent not covered by existing insurance policies, against the Company could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Although the Company has insurance that may cover some of these potential losses, there is always uncertainty as to whether such insurance may be available to the Company based on case-specific factors and the specific provisions of the Company's insurance policies.. The potential cost to the Company relating to environmental, health and safety and product registration matters is uncertain due to factors such as the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety and product registration, including those outside of the U.S. Environmental and product registration laws may also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with any violation, as well as restricting or prohibiting the sale of existing or new products, which may also negatively impact the Company's operating results.  Without limiting the foregoing, these laws or regulations may restrict or prohibit the use of non-renewable or carbon-based substances, or impose fees or penalties for the use of these substances. Accordingly, the Company may become subject to additional liabilities and increased operating costs in the future under these laws and regulations. The impact of any such changes, which are unknown at this time, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's inability to accurately estimate and maintain appropriate levels of recorded liabilities for existing and future contingencies may materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The liabilities recorded by the Company for pending and threatened legal proceedings are estimates based on various assumptions.  An adverse ruling or external forces, such as changes in the rate of inflation, the regulatory environment and other factors that could prove such assumptions to be no longer appropriate, may affect the accuracy of these estimates.  Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the Company's actual liabilities could differ significantly from the estimated amounts the Company records in its financial statements with respect to existing and future contingencies.  If the Company's actual liability is higher than estimated or any new legal proceeding is initiated or other contingency occurs, it could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness, or need to refinance existing indebtedness, in the future, which may adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company has a significant amount of indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $290.8 million of debt on its balance sheet.  U.S. debt included $289.0 million in unsecured promissory notes with maturities extending from 2018 until 2027.  In addition, on December 31, 2017 the Company was party to a $125 million credit facility.  On January 30, 2018, the Company entered into a $350 million five-year credit facility replacing the prior facility.. 11. Certain of the Company's foreign subsidiaries also maintain bank term loans and short-term bank lines of credit in their respective countries to meet working capital requirements as well as to fund capital expenditure programs and acquisitions.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company's foreign subsidiaries' aggregate outstanding debt totaled $ 1.8 million.. The Company's current indebtedness and any additional indebtedness incurred in the future may materially and adversely affect its business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  For example, such indebtedness could:. •  require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on the Company's debt, which would reduce funds available to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements;. •  limit the Company's ability to borrow funds that may be needed to operate and expand its business;. •  limit the Company's flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the Company's business and the industries in which the Company operates;. •  increase the Company's vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in the Company's business; and. •  place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt.. The Company's loan agreements contain provisions, which, among others, require maintenance of certain financial ratios and place limitations on additional debt, investments and payment of dividends.  Failure to comply with these loan agreements would require debt restructuring that could be materially adverse to the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. An increase in interest rates could limit the ability of the Company to incur additional debt to fund the Company's strategic plans or to refinance maturing debt without incurring significant additional cost, and could make borrowings under the Company's credit facility or other floating rate debt materially more expensive.  Additionally, any future disruptions in the credit and financial markets may reduce the availability of debt financing or refinancing and increase the costs associated with such financing.  If the Company is unable to secure financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, its business financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. The Company could be adversely affected by downgrades to its credit ratings or disruptions in its ability to access well-functioning capital markets.. Historically, the Company has relied on the debt capital markets to fund portions of its capital investments and access to bank credit facilities as part of its working capital management strategy. The Company's continued access to these markets, and the terms of such access, depend on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, the Company's operating performance, and its credit ratings. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include rating agencies' assessment of the Company's financial strength and financial policies. There can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to the Company will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. Incurrence of additional debt by the Company could adversely affect its credit ratings. The Company depends on banks and other financial institutions to provide credit to its business and perform under the Company's agreements with them. Defaults by one or more of these counterparties on their obligations to the Company could materially and adversely affect it. Any downgrade of the Company's credit ratings could materially adversely affect its cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets and increase the cost of and counterparty risks associated with existing facilities, which could materially and adversely affect Company business operations, financial condition, and results of operations.. Downturns in certain industries and general economic downturns may have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Economic downturns may adversely affect users of some end products that are manufactured using the Company's products and the industries in which such end products are used.  These users may reduce their volume of purchases of such end products during economic downturns, which would reduce demand for the Company's products.  Additionally, uncertain conditions in the credit markets pose a risk to the overall economy that may impact consumer and customer demand of some of the Company's products, as well as the Company's ability to manage normal commercial relationships with its customers, suppliers and creditors.  Some of the Company's customers may not be able to meet the terms of sale and suppliers may not be able to fully perform their contractual obligations due to tighter credit markets or a general slowdown in economic activity.. 12. In the event that economic conditions worsen or result in a prolonged downturn or recession, the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.. Conflicts, military actions, terrorist attacks and general instability, particularly in certain energy-producing nations, along with increased security regulations related to our industry, could adversely affect the Company's business.. Conflicts, military actions and terrorist attacks have precipitated economic instability and turmoil in financial markets. Instability and turmoil, particularly in energy-producing nations, may result in raw material cost increases. The uncertainty and economic disruption resulting from hostilities, military action or acts of terrorism may impact any or all of the Company's facilities and operations or those of its suppliers or customers. Accordingly, any conflict, military action or terrorist attack that impacts the Company or any of its suppliers or customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Cost overruns, delays and miscalculations in capacity needs with respect to the Company's expansion or other capital projects could adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. From time to time, the Company initiates expansion and other significant capital projects. Projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; difficulties in meeting regulatory requirements or obtaining regulatory approvals; availability of suppliers to certify equipment for existing and enhanced regulations; design and engineering problems; and failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. Significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on the Company's return on investment, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if the Company misjudges its future capacity needs, this too could negatively impact its operations, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company relies extensively on information technology (IT) systems to conduct its business. Interruption of, damage to or compromise of the Company's IT systems and failure to maintain the integrity of customer, colleague or Company data could harm the Company's reputation and have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company relies on IT systems in its operations, including production, supply chain, research and development, finance, human resource and regulatory functions. The Company's ability to effectively manage its business depends on the security, reliability and adequacy of these systems.  IT system failures due to events including but not limited to network disruptions, programming errors, computer viruses and security breaches (e.g., cyber-attacks) could impact production activities, impede shipment of products, cause delays or cancellations of customer orders, or hamper the processing of transactions or reporting of financial results.  These or similar occurrences, whether accidental or intentional, could result in theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information, which could harm our reputation and competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, result in a loss of business, as well as remedial and other costs, fines, investigations, enforcement actions or lawsuits or otherwise adversely affect our business.. The Company continues to develop and enhance controls and security measures to protect against the risk of theft, loss or fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, colleague or company data, and it maintains an ongoing process to re-evaluate the adequacy of its controls and measures. The Company may also be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance its information privacy and security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. The Company maintains what it believes to be adequate and collectible insurance in the event of the theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of customer, colleague or company data, but any such occurrences could result in costs which may not be covered or may be in excess of any available insurance that the Company may have procured. While the Company has a comprehensive program in place for continuously reviewing, maintaining, testing and upgrading its IT systems and security, there can be no assurance that such efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in Company systems that could adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Various liability claims could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial position, operating results and cash flows.. The Company may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its products.  The Company faces an inherent exposure to various types of claims including general liability, product liability, product recall, toxic tort and environmental (\"claims\"), among others, if its products, or the end products that are manufactured with the Company's products, result in property damage, injury or death.  In addition, because the Company conducts business in multiple jurisdictions, the Company also faces an inherent exposure to other general claims based on its operations in those jurisdictions and the laws of those jurisdictions, including but not. 13. limited to claims arising from its relationship with employees, distributors, agents and customers, and other parties with whom it has a business relationship, directly or indirectly.  Many of these claims may be made against the Company even if there is no evidence of a loss from that claim, and these claims may be made by individual persons, groups of persons, or groups of plaintiffs in a class action.  Defending these claims could result in significant legal expenses relating to defense costs and/or damage awards and diversion of management's time and the Company's resources.  Any claim brought against the Company could materially and adversely affect the Company's business financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's success depends on its executive management and other key personnel.. The Company's future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of its executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited, and the competition for talent is robust and the Company may not be able to recruit and retain the personnel it needs if it were to lose an existing member of senior management. The Company's future success will depend on its ability to have adequate succession plans in place and to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel. A failure to efficiently replace executive management members and other key personnel and to attract, retain and develop new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company's business financial position, results of operations and cash flows."
