[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. We face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business and the results of our operations could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our operations. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our concentration in residential mortgage loans exposes us to risks.. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, one-to-four family residential real estate loans amounted to $2.13 billion and $1.61 billion, or 82% and 81%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio, and we intend to continue this type of lending in the foreseeable future. Residential mortgage lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that significantly impact the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. If borrowers are unable to meet their loan repayment obligations, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, a decline in residential real estate values as a result of a downturn in the markets we serve would reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing these types of loans. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential mortgages to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a great risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral.. Strong competition within our market areas or with respect to our products may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms and unregulated or less regulated non-banking entities, operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and higher lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, some of our competitors offer loans with lower interest rates on more attractive terms than loans we offer. Competition also makes it increasingly difficult and costly to attract and retain qualified employees. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market areas. If we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected. As we expand into new market areas, we expect that competition for customers and relationships will be intense. As a result, our ability to successfully deploy our business strategy in these market areas may be difficult.. 18. Table of Contents. In addition, we believe that we have historically faced less competition for customers of our Advantage Loan program as compared to the competition we face in the market for qualified mortgages. To the extent that our competitors begin to offer similar products and compete in this area more frequently or intensely, we may face significant pricing pressure. Many of our competitors are much larger and may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer better pricing for the type of products and services we provide. Should competition over the type of loans we underwrite increase, our profitability could be materially and adversely affected. See \"Business - Competition.\". A lack of liquidity could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and result in regulatory limits being placed on the Company.. Liquidity is essential to our business. We rely on our ability to generate deposits and effectively manage the repayment and maturity schedules of our loans to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to fund our operations. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our most important source of funds is deposits. Deposit balances can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of deposits such as money market funds, we would lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income and net income. While we strive to appropriately balance our loan to deposit ratio, the growth in our loan portfolio challenges our ability to achieve the optimal ratio.. Other primary sources of funds consist of cash flows from operations and sales of investment securities, and proceeds from the issuance and sale of our equity securities, including, most recently, net proceeds of approximately $85.5 million from our recent initial public offering. Additional liquidity is provided by our ability to borrow from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (the \"FHLB\") or our ability to sell portions of our loan portfolio. We also may borrow funds from third-party lenders, such as other financial institutions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities, or on terms that are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Our access to funding sources could also be affected by a decrease in the ability to sell mortgage portfolios as a result of a downturn in our markets or by one or more adverse regulatory actions against us. A lack of liquidity could also attract increased regulatory scrutiny and potential restraints imposed on us by regulators.. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, or to fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face significant operational risks because the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions and increased reliance on technology, including risk of loss related to cybersecurity breaches.. We operate in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions and to collect, process, transmit and store significant amounts of confidential information regarding our customers, employees and others, as well as our own business, operations, plans and strategies. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, systems failures or interruptions, breaches of our internal control systems and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. We face an increasing number of regulations and regulatory scrutiny related to our information technology systems, and security or privacy breaches with respect to our data could result in regulatory fines, reputational harm and customer losses, any of. 19. Table of Contents. which would significantly impact our financial condition. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. In addition, because we perform our own core processing and other technological functions, we cannot rely on indemnification or another source of third-party recovery in the event of a breach of such functions.. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of operational deficiencies or as a result of non-compliance with applicable regulatory standards or customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In addition, we outsource some of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, including as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be materially and adversely affected.. In the event of a breakdown in our internal control systems, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, or a breach of our security systems, including if confidential or proprietary information were to be mishandled, misused or lost, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, fines, civil litigation and/or suffer damage to our reputation.. We rely on external financing to fund our operations and the failure to obtain such financing on favorable terms, or at all, in the future could materially and adversely impact our growth strategy and prospects.. We rely in part on advances from the FHLB to fund our operations. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our current needs, we may need to seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to implement our growth strategy in the event that our borrowing availability with the FHLB is decreased. The sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future may be dilutive to our shareholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge some of our assets and enter into various affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on operational activities and financing alternatives. Future financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to us or, if available, could be on terms unfavorable to us and may require regulatory approval. If financing sources are unavailable or are not available on favorable terms or we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, our growth strategy and future prospects could be materially and adversely impacted.. Our ability to originate loans could be restricted by federal regulations and we could be subject to statutory claims for violations of the ability to repay standard.. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule intended to clarify how lenders can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank Act\"), which holds lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage loan. Under the rule, loans that meet the \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. <U+0095> excessive upfront points and fees (those generally exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);     <U+0095> interest-only payments;    <U+0095> negative amortization; and    <U+0095> terms of longer than 30 years.. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a loan must be made to a borrower whose total monthly debt-to-income ratio does not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify a borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. Lenders of mortgages that meet the \"qualified mortgage\" standards have a safe harbor or a presumption of compliance with these requirements. A. 20. Table of Contents. majority of our residential mortgage loans are not \"qualified mortgages,\" as our underwriting process does not strictly follow applicable regulatory guidance required for such qualification and the rates offered exceed qualifying guidelines. In the event that these mortgages begin to experience a significant rate of default, we could be subject to statutory claims for violations of the ability to repay standard. Any such claims could materially and adversely affect our ability to underwrite these loans, our business, and results of operations or financial condition.. As a business operating in the financial services industry, our business and operations may be adversely affected in numerous and complex ways by weak economic conditions.. Our business and operations, which primarily consist of lending money to customers in the form of loans, borrowing money from customers in the form of deposits and investing in securities, are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. If the U.S. economy weakens, our growth and profitability from our lending, deposit and investment operations could be constrained. Uncertainty about the federal fiscal policymaking process, the medium and long-term fiscal outlook of the federal government, and future tax rates is a concern for businesses, consumers and investors in the United States. In addition, economic conditions in foreign countries, including uncertainty over the stability of the euro currency, could affect the stability of global financial markets, which could hinder U.S. economic growth. Weak economic conditions are characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, a lack of liquidity and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on mortgage, consumer and commercial loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. The current economic environment is also characterized by interest rates at historically low levels, which impacts our ability to attract deposits and to generate attractive earnings through our investment portfolio. All of these factors are detrimental to our business, and the interplay between these factors can be complex and unpredictable. Our business is also significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control. Adverse economic conditions and government policy responses to such conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our business is affected by changes in the state of the general economy and the financial markets, and a slowdown or downturn in the general economy or the financial markets could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our customer activity is intrinsically linked to the health of the economy generally and of the financial markets specifically. In addition to the economic factors discussed above, a downturn in the real estate or commercial markets generally could cause our customers and potential customers to exit the market for real estate or commercial loans. As a result, we believe that fluctuations, disruptions, instability or downturns in the general economy and the financial markets could disproportionately affect demand for our residential and commercial loan services. If such conditions occur and persist, our business and financial results, including our liquidity and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations, could be materially adversely affected.. If the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, earnings could decrease.. Loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of their loans, and the collateral securing the payment of their loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio are made, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, management reviews the loans and the loss and delinquency experience and evaluates economic conditions.. 21. Table of Contents. At December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans, net of unearned income, was 0.71%. The determination of the appropriate level of allowance is subject to judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which are subject to material changes. If assumptions prove to be incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may not cover incurred losses in the loan portfolio at the date of the financial statements. Significant additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. Nonperforming loans may increase and nonperforming or delinquent loans may adversely affect future performance. In addition, federal regulators periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge offs. Any significant increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and nonperforming assets, including loan charge offs, which could depress our net income and growth.. Our loan portfolio includes primarily real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values and a slowdown in housing. If we see negative economic conditions develop in the United States as a whole or in the markets that we serve, we could experience higher delinquencies and loan charge offs, which would reduce our net income and adversely affect our financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent that real estate collateral is obtained through foreclosure, the costs of holding and marketing the real estate collateral, as well as the ultimate values obtained from disposition, could reduce our earnings and adversely affect our financial condition.. Because we intend to continue to increase our commercial loans, our credit risk may increase in our commercial loan portfolios.. At December 31, 2017, our commercial loans totaled $480.1 million, or 18% of our total loans. We intend to increase our originations of commercial loans, within permissible limits for a federal savings bank, which primarily consists of commercial real estate, construction and development, business loans, and commercial lines of credit. These loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans.. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, commercial loans generally have a larger average size as compared with other loans such as residential loans. The collateral for commercial loans is generally less readily-marketable and losses incurred on a small number of commercial loans could have a disproportionate and material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Interest rate shifts may reduce net interest income and otherwise negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. The majority of our banking assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent upon the level of our net interest income, or the difference between the interest income we earn on loans, investments and other interest earning assets, and the interest we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes.. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and our ability to. 22. Table of Contents. originate loans and decrease loan repayment rates. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan portfolio. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest earning assets, loan origination volume and our overall results. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, deflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets.. Future changes in interest rates could reduce our profits and asset values.. Net interest income makes up a majority of our income and is based on the difference between:. <U+0095> the interest income we earn on interest earning assets, such as loans and securities; and    <U+0095> the interest expense we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the demand for our residential lending products may decline and the interest income we earn on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest we pay on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income we earn on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest we pay on our liabilities, as borrowers prepay mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called, requiring us to reinvest those cash flows at lower interest rates. Such changes in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and overall profitability.. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A decline in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities as borrowers refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Furthermore, an inverted interest rate yield curve, where short-term interest rates (which are usually the rates at which financial institutions borrow funds) are higher than long-term interest rates (which are usually the rates at which financial institutions lend funds for fixed-rate loans) can reduce our net interest margin and create financial risk for financial institutions like ours.. A continuation of the historically low interest rate environment and the possibility that we may access higher-cost funds to support our loan growth and operations may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. In recent years the Federal Reserve Board's policy has been to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. Recently, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it believes a gradual increase in the targeted federal funds rate is appropriate. To this end, the Federal Reserve Board raised the targeted federal funds rate in December 2016 and March, June and December 2017. We cannot make any representation as to whether, or how many times, the Federal Reserve will increase the targeted federal funds rate in the future. Notwithstanding the Federal Reserve Board's expressed intentions, our ability to reduce our interest expense may be limited at current interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease, and our interest expense may increase as we access non-core funding sources or increase deposit rates to fund our operations. A continuation of a low, or relatively low, interest rate environment or increasing our cost of funds may adversely affect our net interest income, which would have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. 23. Table of Contents. A substantial majority of our loans and operations are in San Francisco, and therefore our business is particularly vulnerable to a downturn in the San Francisco economy.. Unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, a large portion of our business is concentrated primarily in the state of California, specifically in the San Francisco Bay Area. As of December 31, 2017, 96% of our loan portfolio was based in California and our loan portfolio had concentrations of 67% in the San Francisco Bay Area. While there is not a single employer or industry in our market area on which a significant number of our customers are dependent, if the local economy, and particularly the real estate market, declines, the rates of delinquencies, defaults, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio would likely increase. Similarly, catastrophic natural events such as earthquakes could have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition. As a result of this lack of diversification in our loan portfolio, a downturn in the local economy generally and real estate market specifically could significantly reduce our profitability and growth and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We may not be able to grow, and, if we do grow, we may have difficulty managing that growth.. Our business strategy is to continue to grow our assets and expand our operations, including through geographic expansion. Our ability to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to expand our market share, successfully attract core deposits, and to identify loan and investment opportunities as well as opportunities to generate fee-based income. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits at acceptable levels and upon terms acceptable to us. We also can provide no assurance that we will be successful in expanding our operations organically or geographically while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy.. We face strong competition in the banking industry, and we may not be able to successfully grow or retain market share in our existing markets.. We face intense competition in the banking industry from many competitors who compete with us on an international, regional or local level. Our strategy for future growth relies in part on growth in the communities we serve and our ability to develop relationships in particular locations, and we expect to continue to face strong competition from competitors in all of our markets. If we fail to compete effectively against our competitors, we may be unable to expand our market share in our existing markets, and we may be unable to retain our existing market share in key growth markets or in those markets in which we have traditionally had a strong presence. Failure to protect our market share on a regional level or to grow our market share in key growth markets and product categories could have a material adverse effect on our overall market share and on our profitability.. Our business strategy includes growth, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. Growing our operations could also cause our expenses to increase faster than our revenues.. Our business strategy includes growth in assets, deposits, the scale of our operations and entry into new markets. Achieving such growth will require us to attract customers that currently bank at other financial institutions in our market area and obtain new customers in new market areas where we will have to establish brand recognition and operations. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers and loan officers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, competition from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. Growth opportunities may not be available, may be prohibitively expensive, or we may not be able to manage our growth successfully. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected. Furthermore, there can be considerable costs involved in expanding deposit and lending capacity that generally require a period of time to generate the necessary revenues to offset their costs,. 24. Table of Contents. especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence and require alternative delivery methods. Accordingly, any such business expansion can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until certain economies of scale are reached. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in opening new branches.. We may have difficulty identifying additional regional and local markets for expansion of our business, and we may misjudge the potential of new markets.. In order to successfully expand our business, we must identify new regional and local markets in which we will be successful. To execute this strategy, we must devote substantial financial resources and managerial time to the analysis of demographics, results of competing banks, potential operating costs, real estate costs and availability, construction costs and discretionary spending patterns in different regions of the United States and specific local areas within those selected regions. We may be unfamiliar with many of these areas, and, despite our research, we may choose markets that may prove to be less accepting of our banking concepts than customers in our existing markets. As a result, we may invest substantial time, energy and money in new markets that may not generate satisfactory returns. In addition, new branches, including those located in new markets, will take at least several months to reach planned operating levels due to inefficiencies typically associated with opening a new location, and the financial results of new branches over at least the first year of operation are expected to be below our historical results.. The value of our mortgage servicing rights can be volatile.. We sell in the secondary market residential mortgage loans that we originate, which provides a meaningful portion of our non-interest income in the form of gains on the sale of mortgage loans. We also earn revenue from fees we receive for servicing mortgage loans. As a result of our mortgage servicing business, we have a growing portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage servicing right is the right to service a mortgage loan - collect principal, interest, and escrow amounts - for a fee. We acquire mortgage servicing rights when we keep the servicing rights in connection with the sale of loans we have originated.. Changes in interest rates may impact our mortgage servicing revenues, which could negatively impact our non-interest income. When rates rise, net revenue from our mortgage servicing activities can increase due to slower prepayments, which reduces our amortization expense for mortgage servicing rights. When rates fall, the value of our mortgage servicing rights usually tends to decline as a result of a higher volume of prepayments, resulting in a decline in our net revenue. It is possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall or remain low, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the mortgage servicing rights value caused by the lower rates. Because the value of our mortgage servicing rights is capitalized on our balance sheet and evaluated on a quarterly basis, any significant decline in value could adversely affect our income, our capital ratios or require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms.. One of our historical markets, minority and immigrant individuals, may be threatened by gentrification or adverse political developments, which could decrease our growth and profitability.. We believe that a significant part of our historical strength has been our focus on the minority and immigrant markets. The continuing displacement of minorities due to gentrification of our communities may adversely affect us unless we are able to adapt and increase the acceptance of our products and services by non-minority customers. We may also be unfavorably impacted by political developments adverse to the United States and specifically adverse to markets that are dependent on immigrant populations.. 25. Table of Contents. We rely heavily on our management team and our business could be adversely affected by the unexpected loss of one or more of our officers or directors.. We are led by a management team with substantial experience in the markets that we serve and the financial products that we offer. Our operating strategy focuses on providing products and services through long-term relationship managers. Accordingly, our success depends in large part on the performance of our key officers and directors, as well as on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified senior and middle management. Competition for employees is intense, and the process of identifying key personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business plan may be lengthy. We may not be successful in retaining our key employees or directors and the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our officers or directors could have a material adverse effect on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market and financial products, years of industry experience, long-term business and customer relationships and the difficulty of finding qualified replacement personnel. If the services of any of our key personnel should become unavailable for any reason, we may not be able to identify and hire qualified persons on terms acceptable to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be at risk for future restrictions on compensation paid to our executives.. As a private closely held company, we have historically not been subject to compensation restrictions. Under certain circumstances, our primary regulators could impose restrictions on compensation to our management team. In addition, as a public company, we are required to disclose the compensation of our named executive officers and may face pressure from investors to the extent such compensation is deemed excessive. If we experience future limitations in our executive compensation program, these limitations may make it more difficult to attract and retain executive officers.. Our future success depends on our ability to retain key executives and to identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on the experience and strong relationships we have developed in the communities that we serve. We also recognize that the banking industry is competitive and should we lose several of our front office personnel, it would take time for new employees to develop the experience and cultural values that we believe our long-term employees have developed. Additionally, our hiring processes are unique to us, meaning that we prefer to hire employees with experience in our industry and who have an interest in working with the Bank for many years. Furthermore, replacing executive officers and key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to successfully manage, develop and grow in the banking industry. If we fail to identify and develop or recruit successors, we are at risk of being harmed by the departures of key employees.. The success of our growth strategy depends on our ability to identify and retain individuals with experience and relationships in the markets in which we intend to expand.. We may expand our banking network over the next several years, not just in our existing and planned market areas, but also in other communities. To expand into new markets successfully, we must identify and retain experienced key management members with local expertise and relationships in these markets. We expect that competition for qualified management in the markets in which we may expand will be intense and that there will be a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of and experience in the community banking industry in these markets. Even if we identify individuals that we believe could assist us in establishing a presence in a new market, we may be unable to recruit these individuals away from competitors or more established banks. In addition, the process of identifying and recruiting individuals with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our. 26. Table of Contents. strategy is often lengthy. Our inability to identify, recruit, and retain talented personnel to manage new banking offices effectively would limit our growth and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer, third party, or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors.. Employee errors and employee and customer misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence and increased regulatory scrutiny.. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. If our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information provided by customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by, or on behalf of, customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. In deciding whether to extend credit, we may rely upon our customers' representations that their financial statements are accurate. We also may rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants' reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our commercial clients. Our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be materially adversely affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate or fraudulent information.. We may incur future losses in connection with certain representations and warranties we've made with respect to mortgages that we have sold into the secondary market.. From time to time, we package residential mortgages for sale into the secondary market. In connection with such sales, we make representations and warranties, which, if breached, may require us to repurchase such loans, substitute other loans or indemnify the purchasers of such loans for actual losses incurred in respect of such loans. A substantial decline in residential real estate values in the markets in which we originated such loans could increase the risk of such consequences. While we have not to date received any repurchase requests and we currently believe our repurchase risk remains low based upon our careful loan underwriting and documentation standards, it is possible that requests to repurchase loans could occur in the future and such requests may have a negative financial impact on us.. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. A key component of our business strategy is to rely on our reputation for customer service and knowledge of local markets to expand our presence by capturing new business opportunities from existing and prospective customers in our market area and new market areas. As such, we strive to. 27. Table of Contents. conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected by the actions of our employees, by our inability to conduct our operations in a manner that is appealing to current or prospective customers, or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected.. If our enterprise risk management framework is not effective at mitigating risk and loss to us, we could suffer unexpected losses and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our enterprise risk management framework seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, which is critical to optimizing shareholder value. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory compliance and reputational. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our modest size makes it more difficult for us to compete.. Our modest size makes it more difficult to compete with other financial institutions which are generally larger and can more easily afford to invest in the marketing and technologies needed to attract and retain customers. Because our principal source of income is the net interest income we earn on our loans and investments after deducting interest paid on deposits and other sources of funds, our ability to generate the revenues needed to cover our expenses and finance such investments is limited by the size of our loan and investment portfolios. Accordingly, we are not always able to offer new products and services as quickly as our competitors. As a smaller institution, we are also disproportionately affected by the continually increasing costs of compliance with new banking and other regulations.. We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure.. Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to build or acquire the necessary operational and technological infrastructure and to manage the cost of that infrastructure as we expand. Similar to other corporations, operational risk can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors related to failed or inadequate processes, faulty or disabled computer systems, fraud by employees or outside persons and exposure to external events. As discussed below, we are dependent on our operational infrastructure to help manage these risks. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the strength and capability of our technology systems which we use both to interface with our customers and to manage our internal financial records and other systems. Our ability to develop and deliver new products that meet the needs of our existing customers and attract new ones depends on the functionality of our technology systems. Additionally, our ability to run our business in compliance with applicable laws and regulations is dependent on these infrastructures.. We monitor our operational and technological capabilities and make modifications and improvements when we believe it will be cost effective to do so. In some instances, we may build and maintain these capabilities ourselves. Specifically, we provide our own core systems processing and essential web hosting. We also outsource some of these functions to third parties. If we experience difficulties, fail to comply with banking regulations or keep up with increasingly sophisticated technologies, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Even if we are able to replace them, it may be at a higher cost to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Adherence to our internal policies and procedures by our employees is critical to our performance and how we are perceived by our regulators.. Our internal policies and procedures are a critical component of our corporate governance and, in some cases, compliance with applicable regulations. We adopt internal policies and procedures to guide management and employees regarding the operation and conduct of our business. Any deviation or non-adherence to these internal policies and procedures, whether intentional or unintentional, could have a detrimental effect on our management, operations or financial condition.. We must keep pace with technological change to remain competitive and introduce new products and services.. Financial products and services have become increasingly technologically driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively and introduce new products in a cost-efficient manner is dependent on the ability to keep pace with technological advances, to invest in new technology as it becomes available, and to obtain and maintain related essential personnel. Many of our competitors have already implemented critical technologies and have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technologically driven products and services. In addition, we may not have the same ability to rapidly respond to technological innovations as our competitors do. Furthermore, the introduction of new technologies and products by financial technology companies and \"fintech\" platforms may adversely affect our ability to obtain new customers and successfully grow our business. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so, due to cost, proficiency or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. Such changes may result in us being subject to new or changing accounting and reporting standards. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators, outside auditors or management) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict, and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in our needing to revise or restate prior period financial statements.. Adverse conditions internationally could adversely affect our business.. Many of our customers are recent immigrants or foreign nationals. U.S. and global economic policies, military tensions, and unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely impact the economies in which our customers have family or business ties. A significant deterioration of economic conditions internationally, and in Asia in particular, could expose us to, among other things, economic and transfer risk, and we could experience an outflow of deposits by those of our customers with connections to Asia. In addition, foreign currency restrictions, particularly on the movement of cash from abroad, could adversely affect many of our customers, including with respect to their ability to make down payments or repay loans. Adverse economic conditions abroad, and in China or Taiwan in particular, may also negatively impact asset values and the profitability and liquidity of our customers with ties to these regions.. Changes in the valuation of our securities portfolio could hurt our profits and reduce our shareholders' equity.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused. 29. Table of Contents. by changes in market interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis, with more frequent evaluation for selected issues. In analyzing a debt issuer's financial condition, management may consider whether the securities are issued by the federal government or its agencies, whether downgrades by bond rating agencies have occurred and industry analysts' reports. In analyzing an equity issuer's financial condition, management may consider industry analysts' reports, financial performance and projected target prices of investment analysts. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. Declines in market value could result in other-than-temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Securities Portfolio.\". Legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters could adversely affect us.. We have been, and may in the future become, involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. We consider most of the proceedings to be in the normal course of our business or typical for the industry; however, it is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters, and we may not prevail in any proceedings or litigation. There could be substantial cost and management diversion in such litigation and proceedings, and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our business, brand or image, or our financial condition and results of our operations.. As part of our asset/liability management strategy, we sell portions of our residential loan portfolio from time to time, while retaining servicing rights. If the market for our mortgage loans to the secondary market were to significantly contract, our earnings profile would be negatively affected and our ability to manage our balance sheet would be materially and adversely affected.. From time to time, we manage our liquidity and balance sheet risk by selling loans in our mortgage portfolio into the secondary market. If the market for our mortgages were to contract or our counterparties were to lose confidence in our asset quality, we would lose a key piece of our liquidity strategy and would need to find alternative means to manage our liquidity that may be less effective. If the market for our residential portfolio were to contract, our liquidity, capital ratios and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected.. Any debt service obligations will reduce the funds available for other business purposes, and the terms and covenants relating to our current and future indebtedness could adversely impact our financial performance and liquidity.. We have sold $65 million in aggregate principal amount of our 7.0% Fixed to Floating Subordinated Notes due April 15, 2026. As a result, we are currently, and to the extent we incur significant debt in the future, we will be, subject to risks typically associated with debt financing, such as insufficient cash flow to meet required debt service payment obligations and the inability to refinance existing indebtedness. In addition, our subordinated notes and the related subordinated note purchase agreements contain customary covenants, which under certain circumstances place restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions and enter into certain transactions, including acquisition activity. If we fail to satisfy one or more of the covenants under our subordinated notes, we would be in default under such notes, and may be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under such circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all.. 30. Table of Contents. We and our borrowers in our California communities may be adversely affected by earthquakes or other natural disasters and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not adequately protect us from a serious disaster.. The majority of our branches are located in the San Francisco and Los Angeles, California areas, which in the past have experienced both severe earthquakes and wildfires. We do not carry earthquake insurance on our properties. Earthquakes, wildfires or other natural disasters could severely disrupt our operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, our customers and loan collateral may be severely impacted by such events, resulting in losses.. If a natural disaster, power outage or other event occurred that prevented us from using all or a significant portion of our branches, that damaged critical infrastructure or that otherwise disrupted operations, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time in the San Francisco and/or Los Angeles, California areas. The disaster recovery and business continuity plans we have in place currently are limited and are unlikely to prove adequate in the event of a serious disaster or similar event. We may incur substantial expenses as a result of the limited nature of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, which, particularly when taken together with our lack of earthquake insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Industry and Regulation. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment and the laws and regulations that govern our operations, corporate governance, executive compensation and accounting principles, or changes in any of them.. As a unitary thrift holding company, we are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal agencies that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws and regulations are not intended to protect our shareholders. Rather, these laws and regulations are intended to protect customers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund (the \"DIF\") and the overall financial stability of the United States. These laws and regulations, among other matters, prescribe minimum capital requirements, impose limitations on the business activities in which we can engage, limit the dividend or distributions that Sterling Bank can pay to us, restrict the ability of institutions to guarantee our debt, and impose certain specific accounting requirements on us that may be more restrictive and may result in greater or earlier charges to earnings or reductions in our capital than generally accepted accounting principles would require. Compliance with these laws and regulations is difficult and costly, and changes to these laws and regulations often impose additional compliance costs. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive.. Likewise, the Company operates in an environment that imposes income taxes on its operations at both the federal and state levels to varying degrees. Changes in tax laws could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by U.S. federal and certain state authorities. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and results of operations.. 31. Table of Contents. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase our costs and impact our business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposed new capital requirements on thrift holding companies; changed the base for FDIC insurance assessments to a bank's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base; permanently raised the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000; and expanded the FDIC's authority to raise insurance premiums. The Dodd-Frank Act also established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as an independent entity within the FRB, which has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards and contains provisions on mortgage-related matters, such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower's ability to repay and prepayment penalties. Although the applicability of certain elements of the Dodd-Frank Act is limited to institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, there can be no guarantee that such applicability will not be extended in the future or that regulators or other third parties will not seek to impose such requirements on institutions with less than $10 billion in assets, such as the Company. The Dodd-Frank Act has had and may continue to have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Because the FRB has only been a primary regulator for thrift holding companies since 2012, it is unclear whether we will be exposed to additional regulatory burdens. Any future legislative changes could have a material impact on our profitability, the value of assets held for investment or the value of collateral for loans. Future legislative changes could also require changes to business practices and potentially expose us to additional costs, liabilities, enforcement action and reputational risk.. Compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations has and will continue to result in additional operating and compliance costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In addition, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the bank and non-bank financial services industries and impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices. Federal regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Certain aspects of current or proposed regulatory or legislative changes to laws applicable to the financial industry, if enacted or adopted, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require more oversight or change certain of our business practices, including the ability to offer products, obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads and could expose us to additional costs, including increased compliance costs. These changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes to operations to comply and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and to file timely reports such as suspicious activity reports and currency transaction reports. We are required to comply with these and other anti-money laundering requirements. The federal banking agencies and Financial Crimes Enforcement Network are authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and have recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts against banks and other financial services providers with the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Because a significant. 32. Table of Contents. portion of our customer base consists of foreign nationals and recent immigrants, these laws and regulations pose disproportionate challenges to us relative to our peers. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan.. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to material penalties.. The Community Reinvestment Act (\"CRA\"), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the United States Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful challenge to an institution's performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including the required payment of damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, imposition of restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity and restrictions on expansion activity. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation.. Federal regulators periodically examine our business, and we may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The Federal Reserve Board (\"FRB\") and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (\"OCC\") periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, interest rate risk and liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance and place us into receivership or conservatorship. If we become subject to any regulatory actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and recent rulemaking, we are subject to more stringent capital requirements.. In July 2013, the U.S. federal banking authorities approved new regulatory capital rules implementing the Basel III regulatory capital reforms effecting certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new regulatory capital requirements are generally applicable to all U.S. banks as well as to unitary thrift holding companies with assets over $1 billion, such as the Company. The new regulatory capital rules not only increase most of the required minimum regulatory capital ratios, but also introduce a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio and the concept of a capital conservation buffer. The new regulatory capital rules also expand the current definition of capital by establishing additional criteria that capital instruments must meet to be considered additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. In order to be a \"well-capitalized\" depository institution under the new regime, an institution. 33. Table of Contents. must maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5% or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% or more; a total capital ratio of 10% or more; and a leverage ratio of 5% or more. Institutions must also maintain a capital conservation buffer consisting of common equity Tier 1 capital. The new regulatory capital rules became effective as applied to Sterling Bank on January 1, 2015 with a phase-in period that generally extends through January 1, 2019 for many of the changes. The mechanisms the FRB will utilize to enforce, and the manner in which the FRB will interpret, these standards with respect to unitary thrifts such as the Company remain uncertain.. The failure to meet applicable regulatory capital requirements could result in one or more of our regulators placing limitations or conditions on our activities, including our growth initiatives, or restricting the commencement of new activities, and could materially adversely affect customer and investor confidence, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial conditions, generally.. The FRB or OCC may require us to commit capital resources to support Sterling Bank.. As a matter of policy, the FRB expects a unitary thrift holding company to act as a source of financial and managerial strength for a subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support such subsidiary bank. The Dodd-Frank Act codified the FRB's policy on serving as a source of financial strength. Under the \"source of strength\" doctrine, the FRB may require a unitary thrift holding company to make capital injections into a troubled subsidiary bank and may charge the unitary thrift holding company with engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary bank. A capital injection may be required at times when the holding company may not have the resources to provide it and therefore may be required to borrow the funds or raise capital. Any loans by a holding company to its subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In the event of a unitary thrift's bankruptcy, the bankruptcy trustee will assume any commitment by the holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank. Moreover, bankruptcy law provides that claims based on any such commitment will be entitled to a priority of payment over the claims of the institution's general unsecured creditors, including the holders of its note obligations. Thus, any borrowing that must be done by the Company to make a required capital injection becomes more difficult and expensive and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The requirement that we serve as a source of strength to our Bank may be exacerbated by OCC requirements to maintain certain capital requirements at the bank level and we may not be able to access the necessary funds to do so, which would further materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The FASB has recently issued an accounting standard update that will result in a significant change in how we provide for credit losses and may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an accounting standard update, \"Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,\" which replaces the current \"incurred loss\" model for recognizing credit losses with an \"expected loss\" model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") model. Under the CECL model, we will be required to present certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the. 34. Table of Contents. \"incurred loss\" model required under U.S. GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. Accordingly, we expect that the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect how we determine our allowance for loan losses and could require us to significantly increase our allowance. Moreover, the CECL model may create more volatility in the level of our allowance for loan losses. If we are required to materially increase our level of allowance for loan losses for any reason, such increase could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The new CECL standard will become effective for us for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the impact the CECL model will have on our accounting, but we expect to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to our allowance for loan losses as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the new standard is effective, consistent with regulatory expectations set forth in interagency guidance issued at the end of 2016. We cannot yet determine the magnitude of any such one-time cumulative adjustment or of the overall impact of the new standard on our financial condition or results of operations.. FDIC deposit insurance assessments may materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on earnings.. As a member institution of the FDIC, our subsidiary, Sterling Bank, is assessed a quarterly deposit insurance premium. Failed banks nationwide significantly depleted the insurance fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has adopted a Deposit Insurance Fund Restoration Plan, which requires the FDIC's DIF to attain a 1.35% reserve ratio by September 30, 2020. As a result of this requirement, Sterling Bank could be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments that would adversely affect its earnings, thereby reducing the availability of funds to pay dividends to us.. Monetary policies and regulations of the FRB could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the FRB. An important function of the FRB is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the FRB to implement these objectives are open market purchases and sales of U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in banks' reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits.. The monetary policies and regulations of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted.. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes and controls rely on analytical and forecasting techniques and models and assumptions, which may not accurately predict future events.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with GAAP and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner in which to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet which may result in our reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. 35. Table of Contents. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include the allowance for loan losses and the fair value of securities. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required to significantly increase the allowance for loan losses or sustain loan losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided or reduce the carrying value of an asset measured at fair value. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". Our internal controls, disclosure controls, processes and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures are based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable (not absolute) assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls, processes and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls, processes and procedures could necessitate changes in those controls, processes and procedures, which may increase our compliance costs, divert management attention from our business or subject us to regulatory actions and increased regulatory scrutiny. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions and other third parties we rely on.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks and other institutional entities. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when our collateral cannot be foreclosed upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due.. Tax matters, including the changes in corporate tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to income and other taxes in the U.S. and our operations, plans and results are affected by tax and other initiatives. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law by President Trump. The Tax Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of earnings (except for certain small businesses), limitation of the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. It is also unknown if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. The decrease in the corporate tax rate has resulted in changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and may result in future changes. Any such change in valuation could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances.. We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations, and audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities with respect to our taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are. 36. Table of Contents. reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. There can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.. Risks Related to Governance Matters. We are a \"controlled company\" under the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies, and we may eventually elect to take advantage of the \"controlled company\" exception, which would make our common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. Because we qualify as a \"controlled company\" under the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies, we are not required to have a majority of our board of directors be independent, nor are we required to have a compensation committee or an independent nominating function. In light of our status as a controlled company, our board of directors could determine not to have an independent nominating function and may choose to have the full board of directors be directly responsible for nominating members of our board, and in the future we could elect not to have a majority of our board of directors be independent or not to have a compensation committee. Accordingly, should the interests of our controlling shareholder differ from those of other shareholders, the other shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance rules for NASDAQ-listed companies. We may take advantage of some or all the \"controlled company\" exceptions and to the extent we do not, this determination could change in the future. Our status as a controlled company could make our common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price.. The Seligman family, through the family's trustee and the Bank's founder and the Company's Vice President, Mr. Scott Seligman, have the ability to influence Company operations and control the outcome of matters submitted for shareholder approval and may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders.. Certain trusts for the benefit of members of the Seligman family and administered by their trustee or other Seligman family members or their designees beneficially own approximately 67.1% of our common stock. In addition, Scott Seligman, the founder of the Bank, Vice President of the Company and consultant to the Bank's board of directors, represents the interests of the family and continues to serve in an advisory capacity to the Company and the Bank, including through attendance at board meetings and frequent consultation with senior management. Therefore, Mr. Seligman has access and influence with respect to Company operations and the Seligman family trustee have effective control over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by shareholders, including the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws and approval of a sale of the Company and other significant corporate transactions, regardless of how other shareholders vote on these matters. Furthermore, the interests of the Seligman family may be different than the interests of other shareholders. This concentration of voting power could also have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders.. Certain provisions of our corporate governance documents and Michigan law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price.. Our second amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our Company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These include provisions that, among other things:. <U+0095> permit the board to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may determine (including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in control);. 37. Table of Contents. <U+0095> provide that the authorized number of directors may be fixed only by the board in accordance with our amended and restated bylaws;     <U+0095> do not provide for cumulative voting rights (therefore allowing the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote in any election of directors to elect all of the directors standing for election);    <U+0095> divide our board into three staggered classes;    <U+0095> provide that all vacancies and newly created directorships may be filled by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;    <U+0095> prohibit removal of directors without cause;    <U+0095> prohibit shareholders from calling special meetings of shareholders;    <U+0095> require unanimous consent for stockholders to take action by written consent without approval of the action by our board;     <U+0095> provide that shareholders seeking to present proposals before a meeting of shareholders or to nominate candidates for election as directors at a meeting of shareholders must provide advance notice in writing and also comply with specified requirements related to the form and content of a shareholder's notice;     <U+0095> require at least 80% supermajority shareholder approval to alter, amend or repeal certain provisions of our second amended and restated articles of incorporation; and    <U+0095> require at least 80% supermajority shareholder approval in order for shareholders to adopt, amend or repeal our amended and restated bylaws.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of the board of directors, which is responsible for appointing members of our management. Any matters requiring the approval of our shareholders will require the approval of the Seligman family and their trustee, which may have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders.. In addition, the 2017 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan permits the board of directors or a committee thereof to accelerate, vest or cause the restrictions to lapse with respect to outstanding equity awards, in the event of, or immediately prior to, a change in control. Such vesting or acceleration could discourage the acquisition of our Company.. We could also become subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Michigan law which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us, whether or not an acquisition or merger is desired by or beneficial to our shareholders. If a corporation's board of directors chooses to \"opt-in\" to certain provisions of Michigan Law, such corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% of the corporation's outstanding voting shares unless the holder has held the shares for five years or more or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the business combination. Our board of directors has not elected to be subject to this provision, but could do so in the future. Any provision of our second amended and restated articles of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or Michigan law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock otherwise.. 38. Table of Contents. Our second amended and restated articles of incorporation designates the courts of the State of Michigan located in Oakland County and the United States District for the Eastern District of Michigan as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our second amended and restated articles of incorporation provides that the courts of the State of Michigan located in Oakland County and the United States District for the Eastern District of Michigan shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or employees to us or our shareholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Michigan Business Corporation Act (as it may be amended from time to time, the \"MBCA\"), or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the State of Michigan's internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to the provisions of our second amended and restated articles of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our second amended and restated articles of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by applicable law and the terms of our subordinated notes.. Our ability to pay cash dividends is restricted by the terms of our subordinated notes as well as applicable provisions of Michigan law and the rules and regulations of the OCC and the FRB. Any future determination to pay dividends to holders of our common stock will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, banking regulations, contractual restrictions and any other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant, and we can provide no assurance that we will pay any dividends to our shareholders in the future."
