[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding other statements in this annual report on Form 10-K. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this annual report on Form 10-K.. Our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause our actual financial condition and operating results to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, financial condition and operating results. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, stock price and cash flows. These could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies generally which are not specifically mentioned below.. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, our past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of our future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. Risks Relating to Our Business. If we do not accurately estimate the overall risks, requirements or costs related to a heavy civil project when we bid on or negotiate a contract that is ultimately awarded to us, we may achieve a lower than anticipated profit or incur a loss on the contract.. The majority of our revenues and backlog are derived from fixed unit price contracts and from lump sum contracts. Fixed unit price contracts require us to provide materials and services at a fixed unit price based on agreed quantities irrespective of our actual per unit costs. Lump sum contracts require the contract work to be completed for a single price irrespective of our actual costs incurred. Given that our revenues per contract are fixed, our ability to contract profitability is dependent upon our ability to avoid cost overruns by accurately estimating our costs and then successfully controlling our actual costs. If our cost estimates for a contract are inaccurate, or if we do not perform the contract within our cost estimates, then cost overruns may cause us to incur losses or cause the contract not to be as profitable as we expected. As a result, these types of contracts could negatively affect our cash flow, earnings and financial position.. The costs incurred and gross profit realized on our contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from our original estimates due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to:. • onsite conditions that differ from those assumed in the original bid or contract;. • failure to include required materials or work in a bid, or the failure to estimate properly the quantities or costs needed to complete a lump sum contract;. • delays caused by weather conditions;. • contract or project modifications creating unanticipated costs not covered by change order or contract price adjustments;. • changes in availability, proximity and costs of materials, including steel, concrete, aggregates and other construction materials (such as stone, gravel, sand and oil for asphalt paving), as well as fuel and lubricants for our equipment;. • higher than anticipated costs to lease, acquire and maintain equipment;. • inability to predict the costs of accessing and producing aggregates and purchasing oil required for asphalt paving projects;. • availability and skill level of workers in the geographic location of a project;. • rapidly increasing labor costs;. • failure by our suppliers, subcontractors, designers, engineers, joint venture partners or customers to perform their obligations;. • fraud, theft or other improper activities by our suppliers, subcontractors, designers, engineers, joint venture partners, customers or our own personnel;. • mechanical problems with our machinery or equipment;. • citations issued by any governmental authority, including OSHA;. • difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals;. • changes in applicable laws and regulations;. • delays in quickly identifying and taking measures to address issues which arise during execution of a project; and. 13. • claims or demands from third parties for alleged damages arising from the design, construction or use and operation of a project of which our work is part.. Many of our contracts with public sector customers contain provisions that purport to shift some or all of the above risks from the customer to us, even in cases where the customer is partly at fault. Public sector customers may seek to impose contractual risk-shifting provisions more aggressively, which could increase risks and adversely affect our cash flow, earnings and financial position.. Our dependence on subcontractors and suppliers of materials (including petroleum-based products) could increase our costs and impair our ability to complete contracts on a timely basis or at all.. We rely on third-party subcontractors to perform some of the work on many of our projects. We generally do not bid on contracts unless we have the necessary subcontractors committed for the anticipated scope of the contract and at prices that we have included in our bid, except in some instances for trucking arrangements. Therefore, to the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors, our ability to bid for contracts may be impaired. In addition, if a subcontractor is unable to deliver its services according to the negotiated terms for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may suffer delays and be required to purchase the services from another source at a higher price or incur other unanticipated costs. This may reduce the profit to be realized, or result in a loss, on a contract.. We also rely on third-party suppliers to provide most of the materials (including aggregates, cement, asphalt, concrete, steel, pipe, oil and fuel) for our contracts, except in Utah and Nevada where we source and produce some of the aggregates we use from quarries in which we have mining rights. We do not own or operate any quarries in Texas, Arizona, California, or Hawaii. We normally do not bid on contracts unless we have commitments from suppliers for the materials required to complete the contract and at prices that we have included in our bid, except for some construction projects in Utah and Nevada where we use aggregates from quarries in which we have mining rights. Thus, to the extent that we cannot obtain commitments from our suppliers for materials, our ability to bid for contracts may be impaired. In addition, if a supplier is unable to deliver materials according to the negotiated terms of a supply agreement for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, we may suffer delays and be required to purchase the materials from another source at a higher price or incur other unanticipated costs. This may reduce the profit to be realized, or result in a loss, on a contract.. Diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products are utilized to operate the plants and equipment on which we rely to perform our construction contracts. In addition, our asphalt plants and suppliers use oil in combination with aggregates to produce asphalt used in our road and highway construction projects. Decreased supplies of such products relative to demand, unavailability of petroleum supplies due to refinery turnarounds, higher prices charged for petroleum based products and other factors can increase the cost of such products. Future increases in the costs of fuel and other petroleum-based products used in our business, particularly if a bid has been submitted for a contract and the costs of such products have been estimated at amounts less than the actual costs thereof, could result in a lower profit, or a loss, on a contract.. We may not accurately assess the quality, and we may not accurately estimate the quantity, availability and cost, of aggregates we need to complete a project, particularly for projects in rural areas.. Particularly for projects in rural areas, we typically estimate the quality, quantity, availability and cost for aggregates (such as sand, gravel, crushed stone, slag and recycled concrete) from sources that we have not previously used to supply aggregates, which increases the risk that our estimates may be inaccurate. Inaccuracies in our estimates regarding aggregates could result in significantly higher costs to supply aggregates needed for our projects, as well as potential delays and other inefficiencies. As a result, our failure to accurately assess the quality, quantity, availability and cost of aggregates could cause us to incur losses, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. We may incur higher costs to lease, acquire and maintain equipment necessary for our operations, and the market value of our owned equipment may decline.. A significant portion of our contracts is serviced with our own construction equipment rather than leased or rented equipment. To the extent that we are unable to buy construction equipment necessary for our needs, either due to a lack of available funding or equipment shortages in the marketplace, we may be forced to rent equipment on a short-term basis, which could increase the costs of performing our contracts.. The equipment that we own or lease requires continuous maintenance, for which we maintain our own repair facilities. If we are unable to continue to maintain the equipment in our fleet, we may be forced to obtain third-party repair services, which could increase our costs. In addition, the market value of our equipment may unexpectedly decline at a faster rate than anticipated.. 14. We are dependent on a limited number of heavy civil construction customers.. Due to the size and nature of our heavy civil construction contracts, one or a few customers have in the past and may in the future represent a substantial portion of our consolidated revenues and gross profits in any one year or over a period of several consecutive years. Similarly, our backlog frequently reflects multiple contracts for certain customers; therefore, one customer may comprise a significant percentage of backlog at a certain point in time. Our significant heavy civil customers, those greater than 10% of our consolidated revenues, accounted for approximately 25% of our revenue in 2017, 37% of our revenue in 2016 and 29% of our revenue in 2015. The loss of business from any one of such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Also, a default or delay in payment on a significant scale by a customer could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  See Note 16--Concentration of Risk and Enterprise Wide Disclosures.. The heavy civil construction industry is highly competitive, with a variety of companies competing against us, and our failure to compete effectively could reduce the number of new contracts awarded to us or adversely affect our margins on contracts awarded.. In the past, a majority of the contracts on which we bid were awarded through a competitive bid process, with awards generally being made to the lowest bidder, but sometimes recognizing other factors, such as shorter contract schedules or prior experience with the customer. For our design-build, CM/GC and other alternative methods of delivering projects, reputation, marketing efforts, quality of design and minimizing public inconvenience are also significant factors considered in awarding contracts, in addition to cost. Within our markets, we compete with many international, national, regional and local construction firms. Some of these competitors have achieved greater market penetration than we have in the markets in which we compete, and several of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, a number of international and national companies in our industry that are larger than we are and that currently do not have a significant presence in our markets, if they so desire, could establish a presence in our markets and compete with us for contracts.. In addition, if the use of design-build, CM/GC and other alternative project delivery methods continues to increase and we are not able to further develop our capabilities and reputation in connection with these alternative delivery methods, we will be at a competitive disadvantage, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. If we are unable to compete successfully in our markets, our relative market share and profits could also be reduced.. Our heavy construction business relies on highly competitive and highly regulated government contracts.. Government funding for public works projects is limited, thus creating a highly competitive environment for the limited number of public projects available. In addition, government contracts are subject to specific procurement regulations, contract provisions and a variety of regulatory requirements relating to their formation, administration, performance and accounting. Many of these contracts include express or implied certifications of compliance with applicable laws and contract provisions. As a result, any violations of these regulations could bring about litigation, including the possibility of qui tam (\"Whistleblower\") litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government under the Federal Civil False Claims Act, and could cause termination of other existing government contracts and result in the loss of future government contracts. Due to the significant competition in the marketplace and the level of regulations on government contracts, we could suffer reductions in new projects and see lower revenues and profit margins on those projects, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition.. Our heavy civil construction business depends on our ability to qualify as an eligible bidder under government contract criteria and to compete successfully against other qualified bidders in order to obtain government contracts within our heavy civil business.. The U.S. government and various state and local government agencies conduct rigorous competitive processes for awarding many contracts. Some contracts include multiple award task order contracts in which several contractors are selected as eligible bidders for future work. We will face strong competition and pricing pressures for any additional contract awards from the U.S. government and other government agencies, and we may be required to qualify or continue to qualify under various multiple award task order contract criteria. Our inability to qualify as an eligible bidder under government contract criteria could preclude us from competing for certain government contract awards. In addition, our inability to qualify as an eligible bidder, or to compete successfully when bidding for certain government contracts and to win those contracts, could materially adversely affect our business, operations, revenues and profits.. 15. Our heavy civil construction business is susceptible to economic downturns and reductions in government funding of infrastructure projects.. Our business is highly dependent on the amount and timing of infrastructure work funded by various governmental entities, which, in turn, depends on the overall condition of the economy, the need for new or replacement infrastructure, the priorities placed on various projects funded by governmental entities and federal, state or local government spending levels. Spending on infrastructure could decline for numerous reasons, including decreased revenues received by state and local governments for spending on such projects. For example, state spending on highway and other projects can be adversely affected by decreases or delays in, or uncertainties regarding, federal highway funding, which could adversely affect us since we are reliant upon contracts with state transportation departments for a significant portion of our revenues.. Refer to our \"Business - Our Markets and Customers\" section above for a more detailed discussion of our markets.. Most of our significant heavy civil contracts can be canceled on short notice.. Our governmental contracts generally have clauses that permit the government to cancel the contract unilaterally and at any time as long as the government pays for the work already completed. A cancellation of an unfinished contract could cause our equipment and work crews to be idle for a significant period of time until other comparable work becomes available, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and susceptible to downward changes in general economic or other business conditions which could affect our residential concrete projects, including foundations for single-family and multi-family homes.. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the markets where we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of concrete projects we construct or reduce the prices we can charge for these projects, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Our participation in heavy civil construction joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for failures of our partners.. As part of our business, we are a party to joint venture arrangements, pursuant to which we typically jointly bid on and execute particular projects with other companies in the construction industry. Success on these joint projects depends upon managing the risks discussed in the various risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" and on whether our joint venture partners satisfy their contractual obligations.. We and our joint venture partners are generally jointly and severally liable for all liabilities and obligations of our joint ventures. If a joint venture partner fails to perform or is financially unable to bear its portion of required capital contributions or other obligations, including liabilities stemming from lawsuits, we could be required to make additional investments, provide additional services or pay more than our proportionate share of a liability to make up for our partner's shortfall. Furthermore, if we are unable to adequately address our partner's performance issues, the customer may terminate the project, which could result in legal liability to us, harm to our reputation and reduce our profit on a project.. In connection with acquisitions, certain counterparties to joint venture arrangements, which may include our historical direct competitors, may not desire to continue such arrangements with us and may terminate the joint venture arrangements or not enter into new arrangements. Any termination of a joint venture arrangement could cause us to reduce our backlog and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to recover on claims against project owners or subcontractors for payment or performance.. We occasionally present claims or change orders to our clients and subcontractors for additional costs exceeding a contract price or for costs not included in the original contract price. Change orders are modifications of an original contract that effectively change the provisions of the contract without adding new provisions. They generally include changes in specifications or design, facilities, equipment, materials, sites and periods for completion of work. Claims are amounts in excess of the agreed contract price (or amounts not included in the original contract price) that we seek to collect for customer-caused delays, errors in specifications and designs, contract terminations or other causes of unanticipated additional costs, such as costs caused by negative weather conditions. These costs may or may not be recovered until the claim is resolved. In some instances, these claims can be. 16. the subject of lengthy legal proceedings, and it is difficult to accurately predict when they will be fully resolved. A failure to promptly document and negotiate a recovery for change orders and claims could have a negative impact on our cash flows and overall ability to recover change orders and claims which would have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may fail to meet schedule or performance requirements of our heavy civil contracts.. In most cases, our contracts require completion by a scheduled acceptance date. Failure to timely complete a project could result in additional costs, penalties or liquidated damages being assessed against us, and these could exceed projected profit margins on the contract.. The design-build project delivery method subjects us to the risk of design errors and omissions.. In the event of a design error or omission causing damages with respect to one of our design-build projects, we could be liable. Although by contract we pass design responsibility on to the engineering firms that we engage to perform design services on our behalf for these projects, in the event of a design error or omission causing damages, there is risk that the engineering firm, its professional liability insurance, and the errors and omissions insurance that they and we purchase will not fully protect us from costs or liabilities. Any liabilities resulting from an asserted design defect with respect to our construction projects may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Performance problems on existing and future contracts could cause actual results of operations to differ materially from those anticipated by us and could cause us to suffer damage to our reputation within the industry and among our customers.. An inability to obtain bonding or post letters of credit could limit the aggregate dollar amount of heavy civil contracts that we are able to pursue.. As is customary in the construction business, we are required to provide surety bonds or letters of credit to our customers to secure our performance under construction contracts. Our ability to obtain surety bonds or letters of credit primarily depends upon our capitalization, working capital, available credit facilities, past performance, management expertise and reputation and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety and letter of credit market. Surety companies and banks consider such factors in relationship to the amount of our backlog and their underwriting standards, which may change from time to time. Events that adversely affect the insurance and bonding markets and the banking markets generally may result in bonding or letters of credit becoming more difficult to obtain in the future, or being available only at a significantly greater cost. Our inability to obtain adequate bonding or letters of credit would limit the amount that we can bid on new contracts and could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and business prospects.. Timing of the award and performance of new heavy civil contracts may fluctuate.. It is generally very difficult to predict whether and when new contracts will be offered for tender, as our contracts frequently involve a lengthy and complex design and bidding process, which is affected by a number of factors, such as market conditions, funding arrangements and governmental approvals. Because of these factors, our results of operations and cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and the fluctuation may be substantial.. The uncertainty of the timing of contract awards may also present difficulties in matching the size of our equipment fleet and work crews with contract needs. In some cases, we may maintain and bear the cost of more equipment and ready work crews than are currently required, in anticipation of future needs for existing contracts or expected future contracts. If a contract is delayed or an expected contract award is not received, we would incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our anticipated profit.. In addition, the timing of the revenues, earnings and cash flows from our contracts can be delayed by a number of factors, including: adverse weather conditions, such as prolonged or intense periods of rain, snow, storms or flooding, delays in receiving material and equipment from suppliers and services from subcontractors, and changes in the scope of work to be performed. Such delays, if they occur, could have adverse effects on our operating results for current and future periods until the affected contracts are completed.. We may be unable to attract and retain project managers, skilled labor and other key personnel.. Our ability to attract and retain reliable, qualified personnel is a significant factor that enables us to successfully bid for and profitably complete our work. This includes for each of our subsidiaries management, project managers, estimators, supervisors, foremen, equipment operators and laborers. The loss of the services of any of our subsidiaries' management-level personnel could. 17. have a material adverse effect on us. Our future success will also depend on our ability to hire and retain, or to attract when needed, highly-skilled personnel. If competition for these employees is intense, we could experience difficulty hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support our business. If we do not succeed in retaining our current employees and attracting, developing and retaining new highly-skilled employees, our reputation may be harmed and our operations and future earnings may be negatively impacted.. We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs.. In Arizona, California, Hawaii and Nevada a substantial number of our equipment operators and laborers are unionized. Additional groups of our employees may also unionize in the future. If at any time, a majority of our employees unionized, it could limit the flexibility of the workforce and could result in demands that might increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our profitability. Each of our different employee groups could unionize at any time and would require separate collective bargaining agreements. If any group of our employees were to unionize and we were unable to agree on the terms of their collective bargaining agreement or we were to experience widespread employee dissatisfaction, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting our non-union status. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results and financial condition.. Our operations are subject to hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage, thereby subjecting us to liabilities and possible losses, which may not be covered by insurance.. Our workers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing construction and related services on construction sites, plants and quarries. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. We maintain general liability and excess liability insurance, workers' compensation insurance, auto insurance and other types of insurance all in amounts consistent with our risk of loss and industry practice, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur in our operations.. Insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and quantify due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, we might be required to use working capital to satisfy these claims rather than to maintain or expand our operations. To the extent that we experience a material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents or workers' compensation and health claims, or unfavorable developments on existing claims, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. If we are unable to comply with applicable immigration laws, our ability to successfully complete contracts may be negatively impacted.. We rely heavily on immigrant labor. We have taken steps that we believe are sufficient and appropriate to ensure compliance with immigration laws. However, we cannot provide assurance that we have identified, or will identify in the future, all undocumented immigrants who work for us. Our failure to identify undocumented immigrants who work for us may result in fines or other penalties being imposed upon us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial condition.. Environmental and other regulatory matters could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and could require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the management, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, climate change and the emission and discharge of pollutants into the air and water. We could be held liable for such contamination created not only from our own activities but also from the historical activities of others on our project sites or on properties that we acquire or lease. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other things, regulate employee exposure to hazardous substances. Violations of such laws and regulations could subject us to substantial fines and penalties, cleanup costs, third-party property damage or personal injury claims. In addition, these laws and regulations have become, and enforcement practices and compliance standards are becoming, increasingly stringent. Moreover, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of legislation or regulatory requirements that could be imposed, or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted, with respect to products or activities to which they have not been previously applied. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as more vigorous enforcement policies of the regulatory agencies, could require us to make substantial expenditures for, among other things, pollution control systems and other equipment that we do not currently possess, or the acquisition or modification of permits applicable to our activities.. 18. Our aggregate quarry leases in Utah and Nevada could subject us to costs and liabilities. As lessee and operator of the quarries, we could be held responsible for any contamination or regulatory violations resulting from activities or operations at the quarries. Any such costs and liabilities could be significant and could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Adverse weather conditions may cause delays, which could slow completion of our construction activity.. Because all of our construction projects are performed outdoors, work on our contracts is subject to unpredictable weather conditions, which could become more frequent or severe if general climatic changes occur. For example, evacuations in Texas due to hurricanes along the U.S. Gulf of Mexico coastal areas can result in our inability to perform work on all Houston-area contracts for several days or weeks. Lengthy periods of wet or cold winter weather will generally interrupt construction, and this can lead to under-utilization of crews and equipment, resulting in less efficient rates of overhead recovery. Extreme heat can prevent us from performing certain types of operations. During the late fall to the early spring months of each year, our work on construction projects in Nevada and Utah may also be curtailed because of snow and other work-limiting weather. While revenues can be recovered following a period of bad weather, it is generally impossible to recover the cost of inefficiencies, and significant periods of bad weather typically reduce profitability of affected contracts both in the current period and during the future life of affected contracts. Such reductions in contract profitability negatively affect our results of operations in current and future periods until the affected contracts are completed.  Adverse weather conditions have a less severe impact on our residential construction projects, but can cause short-term variations in financial results.. Force majeure events, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters, have impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, the U.S. economy and the markets in which we operate.. Force majeure events, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters, have contributed to economic instability in the United States in the past and further acts of terrorism, violence, war, or natural disasters could affect the markets in which we operate, our business and our expectations. Armed hostilities may increase, or terrorist attacks, or responses from the United States, may lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability in the United States. These force majeure events may affect our operations or those of our customers or suppliers and could impact our revenues, our production capability and our ability to complete contracts in a timely manner.. We rely on information technology systems to conduct our business, which are subject to disruption, failure or security breaches.. We rely on information technology (\"IT\") systems in order to achieve our business objectives. We also rely upon industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential information on our IT systems. However, our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise IT systems may be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control such as catastrophic events, power outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks or other malicious software programs. The failure or disruption of our IT systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt our business and result in decreased performance, significant remediation costs, transaction errors, loss of data, processing inefficiencies, downtime, litigation and the loss of suppliers or customers. A significant disruption or failure could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial performance and financial condition.. We are dependent on a small number of significant customers in our residential construction business.. Our customers are leading residential homebuilders. Several of these customers individually account for a significant portion of our residential construction busines's sales in a normal year. For the year ended December 31, 2017 in our residential construction business, D.R. Horton, Pulte Homes and HISTORYMAKER Homes, including their respective affiliates, accounted for more than 61% of our residential construction revenues. In addition, homebuilders are reliant upon growth in the housing market and the continued ability to purchase and develop land, which ultimately impact customers' demand for our residential construction services. The loss of any one or more of our significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Financial Results, Financing and Liquidity. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting related to our heavy civil construction projects could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported revenue and profits.. As is more fully discussed in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Critical Accounting Policies,\" we recognize heavy civil contract revenue using the percentage-of-completion. 19. method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts.. Under this method, estimated contract revenue is recognized by applying the percentage of completion of the contract for the period (based on the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated costs of a contract) to the total estimated revenue for the contract. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Contract revenue is reviewed and revised on a continuous basis as the work progresses and as change orders are initiated or approved, and adjustments based upon the percentage of completion are reflected in contract revenue in the accounting period when these estimates are revised. Penalties or potential charges are recorded when known or finalized, which generally is during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record adjustments to estimated costs of contracts when we believe the change in the estimate is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. These adjustments could result in both increases and decreases in profit margins or losses. Actual results could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant and could have an adverse effect on our business.  To the extent that these adjustments result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of previously reported contract profit, we recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material.. We may not be able to fully realize the revenue value reported in our Backlog.. Backlog as of December 31, 2017 totaled $744 million in our heavy civil construction segment. Backlog develops as a result of new awards, which represent the potential revenue value realizable pursuant to new project commitments received by us during a given period.. Backlog is measured and defined differently by companies within our industry. We refer to \"Backlog\" as the unearned revenue we expect to earn in future periods on our executed heavy civil construction contracts.  As the construction on our projects progresses, we increase or decrease Backlog to take into account signed contracts, revenue earned during the period and our estimates of the effects of changes in estimated quantities, changed conditions, change orders and other variations from previously anticipated contract revenues, including completion penalties and incentives. We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our Backlog will be realized, or if realized, will result in earnings. Most contracts may be terminated by our customers on short notice. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to recover the total revenue reflected in our Backlog. In addition to being unable to recover certain direct costs, canceled projects may also result in additional unrecoverable costs due to the resulting under-utilization of our assets or labor force. Backlog may not be realized or may not result in revenues or profits.. Given these factors, our Backlog at any point in time may not accurately represent the revenue that we expect to realize during any period, and our Backlog as of the end of a fiscal year may not be indicative of the revenue we expect to earn in the following fiscal year. Inability to realize revenue from our Backlog could have an adverse effect on our business.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and/or acquisitions, and we may not be able to do so on favorable terms or at all, which would impair our ability to operate our business or achieve our growth objectives.. Our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing credit and equity market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results; such factors may adversely affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms satisfactory to us and makes us more vulnerable to adverse economic and competitive conditions.. We have pledged the proceeds and other rights under our construction contracts to our bond surety, and we have pledged substantially all of our other assets as collateral in connection with our secured credit facility. As a result, we may have difficulty in obtaining additional financing in the future if such financing requires us to pledge assets as collateral. In addition, under our Oaktree Facility, we must obtain the consent of our lenders to incur additional debt from other sources (subject to certain limited exceptions). In April 2017, in connection with the Tealstone acquisition, we amended our certificate of incorporation to increase our authorized shares of common stock from 28 million shares to 38 million shares and we issued 1,882,058 shares of our common stock as consideration paid to the sellers. If future financing is obtained by the issuance of additional shares of common stock, our stockholders may suffer dilution. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges.. Our strategy of growing through strategic acquisitions may not be successful.. We may pursue growth through the acquisition of companies or assets that will enable us to broaden the types of projects we execute and also expand into new markets. We have completed several acquisitions and plan to consider strategic acquisitions in. 20. the future. We may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable companies or assets or reach agreement on potential strategic acquisitions on acceptable terms. Moreover, an acquisition involves certain risks, including:. •difficulties in the integration of operations, systems, policies and procedures;. •enhancements in our controls and procedures including those necessary for a public company may make it more difficult. to integrate operations and systems;. •failure to implement proper overall business controls, including those required to support our growth, resulting in. inconsistent operating and financial practices at companies we acquire or have acquired;. •termination of relationships with the key personnel and customers of an acquired company;. •additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management,. financial reporting and internal controls;. •the incurrence of environmental and other liabilities, including liabilities arising from the operation of an acquired business. or asset prior to our acquisition for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity is inadequate;. •disruption of or receipt of insufficient management attention to our ongoing business; and. •inability to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits that we anticipate.. We are subject to certain covenants under our Oaktree Facility that could limit our flexibility in managing our business.. Our Oaktree Facility restricts us from engaging in certain activities, including our and certain of our subsidiaries' ability (subject to certain exceptions) to:. • create, incur, assume or permit to exist liens or encumbrances;. • incur additional indebtedness;. • dispose of a material portion of assets or merge or consolidate with a third party;. • sell assets;. • make loans;. • enter into acquisitions;. • incur capital expenditures;. • make investments; and. • pay dividends.. Additionally, our Oaktree Facility also requires that we maintain certain financial covenants and prepay the loans (in certain cases with a prepayment premium) with proceeds from the issuance of debt or equity, transfers, events of loss and extraordinary receipts. These requirements could limit our cash flow or impair our ability to conduct business. Further, our level of indebtedness could have important other consequences to our business, including the following:. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate;. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our debt service;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; or. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds.. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financings or engage in other business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Any failure to comply with the financial and other covenants in our Oaktree Facility may result in an event of default that could allow the creditors to accelerate maturities under the Oaktree Facility, which in turn may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt or bonding agreements. Our available cash and liquidity would not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under all of our debt instruments that could be accelerated upon an event of default.. Our credit facility bears interest at an annual rate of the one-, two-, three- or six-month London interbank rate, or LIBOR, plus 8.75%, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial performance and financial condition.. 21. To service our indebtedness and to fund working capital, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors that are beyond our control, including the fact that adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.. We do not have a revolving credit facility or letter of credit facility so our ability to meet our liquidity requirements, including to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund working capital requirements, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to our operational performance, as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may be unable to expand our credit capacity, which could adversely affect our operations and business. Earnings from our operations and our working capital requirements can vary from period to period based primarily on the mix of our projects underway and the percentage of project work completed during the period. Capital expenditures may also vary significantly from period to period. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or asset sales or that we can obtain future borrowing capacity in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer.. In the event these resources do not satisfy our liquidity needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. The domestic and worldwide capital and credit markets may experience significant volatility, disruptions and dislocations with respect to price and credit availability. Should we need additional funds or to refinance our existing indebtedness, we may not be able to obtain such additional funds. If internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all.. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms also could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we experience operational difficulties, we may need to increase our available borrowing capacity or seek amendments to the terms of our Oaktree Facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure any additional capacity or amendment to our Oaktree Facility or to do so on terms that are acceptable to us, in which case, our costs of borrowing could rise and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We must manage our liquidity carefully to fund our working capital.. The need for working capital for our business varies due to fluctuations in the following amounts, among other factors:. • receivables and contract retentions;. • costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings;. • billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings;. • the size and status of contract mobilization payments and progress billings; and. • the amounts owed to suppliers and subcontractors.. We may have limited cash on hand and the timing of payments on our contract receivables is difficult to predict. If the timing of payments on our receivables is delayed or the amount of such payments is less than expected, our liquidity and ability to fund working capital could be materially and adversely affected.. We may be required to write down all or part of our goodwill and intangibles.. We had $85.2 million of goodwill  and  $44.8 million of intangibles recorded on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations reduced by any impairments recorded subsequent to the date of acquisition. Intangible assets are recognized as an asset apart from goodwill if it arises from contractual or other legal rights or if it is separable, that is, it is capable of being separated or divided from the acquired business and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged (whether there is intent to do so).  A shortfall in our revenues or net income or changes in various other factors from that expected by securities analysts and investors could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it might indicate a decline in our fair value and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill or intangible assets have been impaired. We perform an annual test of our goodwill and periodic assessments of intangible assets to determine if they have become impaired. On an interim basis, we also review the factors that have or may affect our operations or market capitalization for events that may trigger impairment testing. Write downs of goodwill and intangible assets may be. 22. substantial. If we were required to write down all or a significant part of our goodwill and/or intangible assets in future periods, our net earnings and equity could be materially adversely affected."
