[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investments in the common stock, no par value, of the Corporation (the \"Common Stock\") involve risk.  The following discussion highlights the risks management believes are material for the Corporation, but does not necessarily include all risks that we may face.. Our operations are subject to interest rate risk and changes in interest rates may negatively affect financial performance.. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income.  Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money.  To be profitable we must earn more interest from our interest-earning assets than we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities.  Changes in the general level of interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competitive factors and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies such as the Federal Reserve Bank.  Changes in monetary policy and interest rates can also adversely affect customer demand for our products and services and, thus, our ability to originate loans and deposits, the fair value of financial assets and liabilities and the average duration of our assets and liabilities.  We are subject to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more slowly or more rapidly or on a different basis than our interest-earning assets.. At December 31, 2017, $20.8 million of the total $63.8 million of our Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings will mature during 2018.  As these borrowings mature, we will need to either renew the borrowings at a potentially higher rate of interest, which would negatively impact our net interest income, or repay such borrowings.  If we sell securities or other assets to fund the repayment of such borrowings, any decline in estimated market value with respect to the securities or assets sold would be realized and could result in a loss upon such sale.. Interest rates do and will continue to fluctuate.  Although we cannot predict future Federal Open Market Committee (\"FOMC\"), or FRB actions or other factors that will cause rates to change, the FOMC reaffirmed its view that an accommodative monetary policy stance remains appropriate.  Despite recent actions by the FRB to raise short-term interest rates, interest rates still remain relatively low.  If long-term interest rates remain low, a flattening of the U.S. Treasury yield curve may continue and adversely impact our net interest rate spread and net interest margin.  No assurance can be given that changes in interest rates will not have a negative impact on our net interest income, net interest rate spread or net interest margin.. 7. Our lending is concentrated to local markets and a decline in real estate markets and the local economy could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, our gross loan portfolio amounted to $711.7 million, 82.6% of which consisted of mortgage loans secured predominantly by real estate in Northern New Jersey.  The majority of these real estate loans were secured by commercial real estate, amounting to $493.5 million or 69.3% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2017.  In addition, commercial loans amounted to $89.1 million or 12.5% of the gross loan portfolio at December 31, 2017 and commercial construction loans amounted to $2.2 million or 0.3% of the gross loan portfolio at such date.  Commercial real estate mortgage loans, commercial loans and construction loans are generally viewed as exposing the lender to a greater risk of loss than fully underwritten one-to-four family residential mortgage loans and typically involve higher principal amounts per loan.  Commercial real estate mortgage loans are typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related property.  If the cash flow from the property is reduced, the borrower's ability to repay the loan may be impaired. If the borrower defaults, our only remedy may be to foreclose on the property, for which the market value may be less than the balance due on the related mortgage loan.  The repayment of commercial business loans (the increased origination of which is part of management's strategy), is contingent on the successful operation of the related business.  Repayment of construction loans is contingent upon the successful completion and operation of the project. Changes in local economic conditions and government regulations, which are outside the control of the borrower or lender, also could affect the value of the security for the loan or the future cash flow of the affected properties.  Accordingly, a decline in local economic conditions would likely have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations due to our lending concentration and lack of geographic diversity.. Declines in value may adversely impact our investment portfolio.. As of December 31, 2017, the Corporation had approximately $113.0 million and $52.4 million in available for sale and held to maturity investment securities, respectively.  We may be required to record impairment charges on our investment securities if they suffer a decline in value that is considered other-than-temporary.  Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods.  If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of the Bank to upstream dividends to the Corporation, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios.. An improving economy but a prolonged recovery has adversely affected the financial services industry and, because of our geographic concentration in northern New Jersey, we could be impacted by adverse changes in local economic conditions.. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of the nation, the State of New Jersey, and the northern New Jersey area.  The nation's improving but prolonged recovery has severely adversely affected the banking industry and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price.  We believe recovery will continue to be slow and believe the reversal of the impact of the prolonged difficult economic conditions are likely to take time to show improvement.  Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide financial services to customers primarily in the market areas in which we operate.  The local economic conditions of these areas have a significant impact on our commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of our borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans.  While we did not and do not have a sub-prime lending program, any significant decline in the real estate market in our primary market area would hurt our business and mean that collateral for our loans would have less value.  As a consequence, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate securing the loan would be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans.  Any of the foregoing events and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 8. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient.. There are risks inherent in our lending activities, including dealing with individual borrowers, nonpayment, uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and changes in economic and industry conditions.  We attempt to mitigate and manage credit risk through prudent loan underwriting and approval procedures, monitoring of loan concentrations and periodic independent review of outstanding loans.  We cannot be assured that these procedures will reduce credit risk inherent in the business.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and assets serving as collateral for loan repayments.  In determining the size of our allowance for loan loss, we rely on our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions.  If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our portfolio.  Significant additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income.  Various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the Corporation's allowance for loan losses.  Such agencies may require the Corporation to make additional provisions for loan losses based upon information available to them at the time of their examination.. If bank regulators impose limitations on the Bank's commercial real estate lending activities, earnings could be adversely affected.. In 2006, the FDIC, the OCC and the FRB (collectively, the \"Agencies\") issued joint guidance entitled \"Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices\" (the \"CRE Guidance\").  Although the CRE Guidance did not establish specific lending limits, it provides that a bank's commercial real estate lending exposure may receive increased supervisory scrutiny where total non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans, including loans secured by apartment buildings, investor commercial real estate and construction and land loans, represent 300% or more of an institution's total risk-based capital and the outstanding balance of the commercial real estate loan portfolio has increased by 50% or more during the preceding 36 months.  The Bank's level of non-owner occupied commercial real estate equaled 302% of total risk-based capital at December 31, 2017.  Including owner-occupied commercial real estate, the ratio of commercial real estate loans to total risk-based capital ratio would be 508% at December 31, 2017.  At December 31, 2017, commercial real estate loans amounted to $515.8 million compared to $312.7 million at December 31, 2014, an increase of $203.2 million or 65.0% over such 36 month period.. In December 2015, the Agencies released a new statement on prudent risk management for commercial real estate lending that expressed the Agencies concerns about easing commercial real estate underwriting standards, direct financial institutions to maintain underwriting discipline and exercise risk management practices to identify, measure and monitor lending risks, and indicate that the Agencies will continue \"to pay special attention\" to commercial real estate lending activities and concentrations going forward.  If the FDIC were to impose restrictions on the amount of commercial real estate loans that the Bank can hold in its portfolio, or require higher capital ratios as a result of the level of commercial real estate loans held, the Bank's earnings would be adversely affected.. The Corporation's future growth may require the Corporation to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be available only at an excessive cost.. The Corporation is required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations.  The Corporation anticipates that current capital levels will satisfy regulatory requirements for the foreseeable future.  The Corporation, however, may at some point choose to raise additional capital to support its continued growth.  The Corporation's ability to raise additional capital will depend, in part, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of the Corporation's control.  Accordingly, the Corporation may be unable to raise additional capital, if and when needed, on terms acceptable to the Corporation, or at all.  If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impacted.  In the event of a material decrease in the Corporation's stock price, future issuances of equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholder interests.. 9. A decrease in our ability to borrow funds could adversely affect our liquidity.. Our ability to obtain funding from the Federal Home Loan Bank or through our overnight federal funds lines with other banks could be negatively affected if we experienced a substantial deterioration in our financial condition or if such funding became restricted due to deterioration in the financial markets.  While we have a contingency funds management plan to address such a situation if it were to occur (such plan includes deposit promotions, the sale of securities and the curtailment of loan growth, if necessary), a significant decrease in our ability to borrow funds could adversely affect our liquidity.. Our inability to fulfill minimum capital requirements could limit our ability to conduct or expand our business or pay a dividend and impact our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our Common Stock.. In July 2013, the FDIC and other federal bank regulatory agencies adopted final rules that established a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations.  These rules, generally referred to as the \"Basel Rules,\" create a new regulatory capital standard based on Tier 1 common equity, increase the minimum leverage and risk-based capital ratios applicable to all banking organizations and change how certain regulatory capital components are calculated.  See \"Capital Adequacy Guidelines for Banks and Bank Holding Companies\" under Item 1 for a detailed description of the various capital requirements to which the Corporation and the Bank are, and in the future may be, subject to.  Compliance with these regulatory capital requirements may limit our ability to engage in operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to maintain our current level of business or expand our business.  Furthermore, if we fail to comply with these regulatory capital requirements, the FRB could place limits or conditions on the operation of our business and subject us to a variety of enforcement remedies, including limiting our ability to pay dividends.. External factors, many of which we cannot control, may result in liquidity concerns for us.. Liquidity risk is the potential that the Corporation will be unable to: meet its obligations as they come due; capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise; or pay regular dividends, because of the Corporation's inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances.. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, operating expenses, capital expenditures and dividends to shareholders.. Liquidity is derived primarily from deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on investment securities; sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; borrowing capacity; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources.. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general.  Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a prolonged economic downturn or adverse regulatory action against us.  Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.. Competition within the financial services industry and from non-banks could adversely affect our profitability.. We face strong competition from banks, other financial institutions, money market mutual funds, brokerage firms and non-banks within the New York metropolitan area.  A number of these entities have substantially greater marketing and advertising resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services.  Competition among depository institutions for customer deposits has increased significantly and will likely continue in the current economic environment.  Our success depends upon our ability to serve our clients in a more responsive manner than. 10. our competitors.  If we are unsuccessful in competing effectively, we will lose market share and may suffer a reduction in our margins and adverse consequences to our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The unexpected loss of management or key personnel could impair the Corporation's future success.. The Corporation's future success depends in part on the continued service of its executive officers, other key management, and staff, as well as its ability to continue to attract, motivate, and retain additional highly qualified employees.  The loss of services of one or more of the Corporation's key personnel or its inability to timely recruit replacements for such personnel, or to otherwise attract, motivate, or retain qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on the Corporation's business, operating results and financial condition.. If we cannot keep pace with technological changes in the financial services industry, we may not be able to compete effectively.. The financial services industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes, including developments in internet-based banking, with the aim to better serve customers and reduce costs.  Our ability to compete successfully in the future will depend, in part, upon our ability to anticipate and respond to customer demands for technology-driven banking products and services and to invest the resources required to implement, maintain and upgrade the technology required to provide these products and services.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in these technological improvements.  Although we continually invest in new technology, we cannot provide assurance that we will have sufficient resources to remain competitive in the future.  Our inability to keep pace with technological changes could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. Federal and State regulations could restrict our business and increase our costs and non-compliance would result in penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to extensive regulation, supervision, and examination by the FDIC, the FRB and the State of New Jersey.  The significant federal and state banking regulations that we are subject to are described herein under \"Item 1. Business.\"  The regulation and supervision of the activities in which bank and bank holding companies may engage is primarily intended for the protection of the depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds.  These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and overall operations.  These statutes, regulations, regulatory policies, and interpretations of policies and regulations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time.  Any such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Bank may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.  New federal and/or state laws and regulations of lending and funding practices and liquidity standards continue to be implemented and bank regulatory agencies are being very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in bank examinations with respect to bank capital requirements.  Any increased government oversight, including the full implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, may increase our costs and limit our business opportunities.  Our failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies applicable to our business could result in sanctions against us by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurances that such violations will not occur.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires lenders to make a reasonable, good faith determination of a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage.  The CFPB has promulgated a safe harbor rule for any loan that constitutes a \"qualified mortgage.\"  Loans that meet this \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard.  Under the CFPB's rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including: excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans); interest-only payments; negative-amortization; and terms longer than 30 years.  Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a borrower's total debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%.  Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes,. 11. insurance and assessments.  The CFPB's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or require that we invest significantly greater resources to make these loans and, therefore, limit our growth and adversely affect our profitability.. A breach of our information systems through a system failure, cyber-security breach, computer virus or disruption or interruption of service or a compliance breach by one of our vendors could negatively affect our reputation, our business and our earnings.. Information technology systems are critical to our business.  The financial services industry has experienced an increase in both the number and severity of reported cyber-attacks aimed at gaining unauthorized access to bank systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption.  We rely heavily upon a variety of computing platforms and networks over the Internet for the purpose of data processing, communication and information exchange and to conduct and manage various aspects of our business and provide our customers with the ability to bank online.  We have business continuity and data security systems, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems and controls in place to monitor vendor risks.  Despite the safeguards instituted by management, our systems may be vulnerable to a breach of security through unauthorized access, phishing schemes, computer viruses and other security problems, as well as failures and disruptions of services resulting from power outages and other circumstances.. The Corporation maintains policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions and security breaches (including privacy breaches), but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur.  In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services.  Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security.. Our information technology environment/network, including disaster recovery and business continuity planning, are outsourced to a third party hosted environment.  In addition, we rely on the service of a variety of third-party vendors to meet our data processing needs.  If any of these third-party providers encounters a system failure, cyber-security breach or other difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with any of these third-party providers, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected.  Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption or breach of security involving us or our vendors could result in the compromise of our confidential information and the confidential information of our customers, employees and others.  In such event, we could be exposed to claims, litigation, financial losses, costs and damages.  Such damages could materially affect our earnings.  In addition, any failure, interruption or breach in security could also result in failures or disruptions in our general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems and could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny.  In addition, the negative affect on our reputation could affect our ability to deliver products and services successfully to existing customers and to attract new customers.  Any of the foregoing events and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  The Corporation has not experienced any cyber incidents that are, individually or in the aggregate, material.  The Corporation outsources certain cyber security functions, such as penetration testing, to third party service providers but does not outsource any cyber security function that has material cybersecurity risk.. We may not be able to sustain or increase the market price of our Common Stock.. The trading history of our Common Stock, which trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market, has been characterized by relatively low trading volume.  The limited trading market for our Common Stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our Common Stock to be exaggerated and lead to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market.  The current market price of our Common Stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our Common Stock.  Volatility in the market price of our Common Stock may occur in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in the other risk factors and the following:. 12. • actual or anticipated fluctuation in our operating and financial results;. • press releases, publicity, or announcements concerning us, our competitors or the banking industry;. • changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including estimates by securities analysts and investors;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • future sales of our Common Stock or other equity securities;. • developments in laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations affecting us or our competitors; and. • general domestic economic and market conditions.. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent a shareholder from selling our Common Stock at or above the current market price.. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service our Subordinated Notes and other debt obligations.. The Corporation's principal source of cash flow is dividends and distributions from the Bank; however, we cannot be assured that the Bank will, in any circumstances, pay dividends to us.  Various federal and state statutes, regulations and rules limit, directly or indirectly, the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us without regulatory approval.  There can be no assurances that we would receive such approval if required.  If the Bank fails to make dividend payments to us, and sufficient cash is not otherwise available, we may be unable to make principal and interest payments on the Subordinated Notes (see discussion of the Subordinated Notes in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report) and our other debt obligations.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the Subordinated Notes, will depend on our financial and operating performance.  We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the Subordinated Notes.  If our cash flows and capital resources, and the dividends we receive from the Bank, are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be unable to provide new loans, other products or to fund our obligations to existing customers and otherwise implement our business plans.  As a result, we may be unable to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity issues and we might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, or seek to restructure our indebtedness, including the Subordinated Notes.  In such event, there could be no assurance that we would be able to consummate these transactions, and proceeds of such transactions might not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.. If we fail to make interest and principal payments on the Subordinated Notes, the terms of the Subordinated Notes will restrict us from paying dividends to our common shareholders and this may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.. If we fail to make payments of principal or interest on the Subordinated Notes or a default occurs under the Subordinated Notes, the Corporation is not permitted to pay or declare dividends or distributions on or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payments with respect to our Common Stock.. Further, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is always subject to legal and regulatory restrictions.  Any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Corporation's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Corporation's Board of Directors.  Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our Common Stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate our Common Stock dividend in the future.  Our shareholders bear the risk that no dividends will be paid on our Common Stock in future periods or that, if paid, such dividends will be reduced, which may negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock.. 13. Anti-takeover provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and Restated By-Laws and New Jersey law could discourage a change of control that our shareholders may favor, which could negatively affect the market price of our Common Stock.. Provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated By-Laws and applicable provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to remove our directors and acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our shareholders.  These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock.  For example, applicable provisions of the New Jersey Business Corporation Act may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of five years after the person becomes an interested shareholder.  Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides for staggered terms for our directors and authorizes the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt and requires super-majority voting by our shareholders to effect amendments to certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  In addition, our Amended and Restated By-Laws limit who may call special meetings of both the board of directors and shareholders and establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholders' meetings.. Federal banking laws limit the acquisition and ownership of our Common Stock.. Because we are a bank holding company, any purchaser of 5% or more of our Common Stock may be required to file a notice with or obtain the approval of the FRB under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended. Specifically, under regulations adopted by the FRB, (1) any other bank holding company may be required to obtain the approval of the FRB before acquiring 5% or more of our Common Stock and (2) any person other than a bank holding company may be required to file a notice with and not be disapproved by the FRB to acquire 10% or more of our Common Stock."
