[1] "Item 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors. Investment in Bancorp’s common stock involves risk, and Bancorp’s profitability and success may be affected by a number of factors including those discussed below.. Financial condition and profitability depend significantly on local and national economic conditions.. The Company’s success depends on general economic conditions both locally and nationally. Most of Bancorp’s customers are in the Louisville, Indianapolis, and Cincinnati metropolitan areas. Compared to regional or national financial institutions, Bancorp is less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Some of Bancorp’s customers are directly impacted by the local economy while others have more national or global business dealings. Deterioration in the quality of the credit portfolio could have a material adverse effect on financial condition, results of operations, and ultimately capital.. 3. Table of Contents. Financial condition and profitability depend on real estate values in the Company’s market area.. Bancorp offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Bancorp’s loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) primarily in Bancorp’s market areas. In instances where borrowers are unable to repay their loans and there has been deterioration in the value of the loan collateral, Bancorp could experience higher loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on financial condition, and results of operations.. If actual loan losses are greater than Bancorp’s assumption for loan losses, earnings could decrease.. Bancorp’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to ensure repayment and the wealth of guarantors providing guarantees to support these loans may be insufficient to aid in the repayment of these loans. Accordingly, Bancorp might experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on operating results. Bancorp makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of collateral for repayment of many loans. In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, Bancorp considers, among other factors, an evaluation of economic conditions and Bancorp’s loan loss experience. If Bancorp’s assumptions prove to be incorrect or economic problems are worse than projected, the current allowance may not be sufficient to cover loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in the loan portfolio. Such additions to the allowance, if necessary, could have a material adverse impact on financial results.. Federal and state regulators annually review Bancorp’s allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs. If regulatory agencies require any increase in the provision for loan losses or loan charge-offs for which Bancorp had not allocated, it would have a negative effect on financial results.. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce profitability.. Bancorp’s primary source of income is from the net interest spread, the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Bancorp expects to periodically experience gaps in interest rate sensitivities of Bancorp’s assets and liabilities, meaning that either interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to Bancorp’s position, this gap will work against Bancorp and earnings will be negatively affected.. Many factors affect fluctuation of market interest rates, including, but not limited to the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinflation or deflation. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trecession. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta rise in unemployment. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttightening money supply. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinternational disorder and instability in foreign financial markets. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe Federal Reserve’s actions to control interest rates. The Federal Reserve increased the overnight federal funds rate three times in 2017 which led to the prime lending rate increasing from 3.75% to 4.50%. Bancorp benefits from rates increasing as the majority of variable rate loans are tied to prime with a lesser amount tied to LIBOR. While variable rate loans have re-priced at higher rates Bancorp has largely held deposit rates unchanged. Deposit rates generally do not reprice as quickly as loans which positively affects earnings as rates rise in the short term. Market expectations for 2018 include three additional 25 bps federal funds rate increases. Bancorp recognizes that eventually deposit rates will be adjusted upward which poses a risk to earnings. Migration of deposits out of Bancorp, as customers pursue higher rates, could impact liquidity and earnings as Bancorp competes for deposits. Changes in the mix of deposits could result in increased average rates paid on deposits, and lower earnings to Bancorp. Bancorp’s asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate risk from changes in market interest rates, may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s results of operations and financial condition. Bancorp’s most recent earnings simulation model estimated the impact of changing interest rates on earnings for the next 12 months indicates net interest income will decrease approximately 3% if interest rates immediately increase 200 basis points and decrease approximately 5% if rates decrease 200 basis points.. 4. Table of Contents. Bancorp is subject to funding risk.. Funding risk represents the dependence Bancorp has on large commercial deposit relationships. Approximately 40% of Bancorp’s total deposits are centralized in accounts with balances $500,000 or greater. Bancorp considers these deposits core funds as they represent long-standing relationships and are a testament to Bancorp’s commitment to partner with business clients by providing exemplary service and competitive products. A sudden shift in customer behavior within these deposits resulting in balances being reduced or moved out of the bank altogether could impact Bancorp’s ability to capitalize on growth opportunities and meet current obligations. Bancorp has secondary sources of funding to draw upon as needed but the cost of those funds would be higher than typical deposit accounts which would negatively impact the financial condition and results of operation.. Significant stock market volatility could negatively affect Bancorp’s financial results.. Income from wealth management and trust constitutes approximately 44% of non-interest income. Trust assets under management are expressed in terms of market value, and a significant portion of fee income is based upon those values. A large majority of wealth management and trust fees are based on market values which generally fluctuate with the overall capital markets.. Capital and credit markets experience volatility and disruption from time to time. These conditions place downward pressure on credit availability, credit worthiness and customers’ inclinations to borrow. Prolonged volatility or a significant disruption could negatively impact customers’ ability to seek new loans or to repay existing loans. The personal wealth of many borrowers and guarantors has historically added a source of financial strength to certain loans and would be negatively impacted by severe market declines. Sustained reliance on their personal assets to make loan payments would result in deterioration of their liquidity, and could result in loan defaults.. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect profitability.. Bancorp operates in a highly competitive industry that could become even more so as a result of earnings pressure of contending banks, legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Bancorp faces vigorous competition in price and structure of financial products from banks and other financial institutions. In recent years, credit unions have expanded their lending mix and now compete heavily with banks in the commercial real estate market. Their high risk tolerance for fixed rate, long-term loans has adversely affected Bancorp’s net loan growth and results of operations. Bancorp also competes with other non-traditional providers of financial services, such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. As internet-based financial services continue to grow in acceptance, Bancorp must remain relevant as a place where consumers and businesses value personal service while competitors offer these services without human interaction. The variety of sources of competition may reduce or limit margins on banking services, reduce market share and adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. Bancorp’s growth and expansion may adversely affect customer perceptions of the community based, customer oriented service Bancorp provides, thus damaging Bancorp’s image in the market.. 5. Table of Contents. An extended disruption of vital infrastructure could negatively impact Bancorp’s business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Bancorp’s operations depend upon, among other things, infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure by fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failure, information systems breaches, terrorist activity or the domestic and foreign response to such activity, or other events outside of Bancorp’s control could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on Bancorp’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Bancorp’s business continuity plan may not work as intended or may not prevent significant interruption of operations. Occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of information systems could damage Bancorp’s reputation, result in loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose Bancorp to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operation.. Security breaches or incidences of fraud could negatively impact Bancorp’s business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Bancorp’s assets which are at risk for cyber-attacks include financial assets and non-public information belonging to customers. Cyber security risks include cyber espionage, blackmail, ransom, theft, and corporate account takeovers. Bancorp employs many preventive and detective controls to protect its assets, and provides mandatory recurring information security training to all employees. Bancorp has invested in multiple preventative tools in an attempt to protect customers from cyber threats and corporate account takeover. Bancorp regularly provides educational information regarding cyber threats to customers. Bancorp utilizes multiple third-party vendors who have access to the Company’s assets via electronic media. While Bancorp requires third parties, many of whom are small companies, to have similar or superior controls in place there is no guarantee that a breach of information could occur. Activities of the Bank that subject Bancorp to risk of fraud by customers, employees, vendors, or members of the general public include ACH transactions, wire transactions, ATM transactions, checking transactions, and loan originations. Repeated incidences of fraud or a single large occurrence would adversely impact Bancorp’s reputation and results of operation.. Bancorp’s credit metrics are at historically strong levels.. During 2017, Bancorp’s solid asset quality metrics trended within a narrow range and exceeded solid benchmarks of the past several years to reach historically strong levels. Bancorp realizes that present asset quality metrics are exceptionally positive and, recognizing the cyclical nature of the lending business, the Company anticipates this trend will most likely normalize over time.. Bancorp’s accounting policies and methods are critical to how Bancorp reports its financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.. Accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how Bancorp records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. Bancorp must exercise judgment in selecting and applying these accounting policies and methods so they comply with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“US GAAP”).. Bancorp has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management’s judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, or reducing a liability. Bancorp has established detailed policies and control procedures intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently.. The policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding Bancorp’s judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, there can be no assurances that actual results will not differ from those estimates. See the “Critical Accounting Policies” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for more information.. Bancorp operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes to or lack of compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations.. Bancorp is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on Bancorp and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect Bancorp’s powers, authority and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations. If Bancorp’s policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, the Company would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on the ability to pay dividends and the requirement to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of Bancorp’s business plan, including branching and acquisition plans.. 6. Table of Contents. Bancorp’s ability to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands is constantly being challenged.. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Future success of Bancorp will depend, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional operational efficiencies and greater privacy and security protection for customers and their personal information. Many of Bancorp’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Bancorp may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services as quickly as competitors or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Bancorp relies on third party providers for many of its technology-driven banking products and services. Some of these companies may be slow to respond with upgrades or enhancements to their products to keep pace with improvements in technology or the introduction of competing products. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could impair Bancorp’s ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business and could have an adverse impact on its business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. Bancorp is dependent upon outside third parties for the processing and handling of the Company’s records and data.. Bancorp relies on software developed by third-party vendors to process various transactions. In some cases, Bancorp has contracted with third parties to run their proprietary software on the Company’s behalf. While Bancorp performs a review of controls instituted by the applicable vendors over these programs in accordance with industry standards and performs testing of user controls, the Company relies on the continued maintenance of controls by these third-party vendors, including safeguards over the security of client data. Bancorp may incur a temporary disruption in the Company’s ability to conduct business or process transactions, or incur reputational, if the third-party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such a disruption or breach of security could have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s business. Further, if these third-party service providers experience difficulties, or should terminate their services, and the Company is unable to replace them on a timely basis, Bancorp’s business operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Bancorp may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.. Bancorp’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in the industry and the markets in which Bancorp engages can be intense, and the Company may not be able to retain or hire the people wanted or needed. To attract and retain qualified employees, Bancorp must compensate them at market levels. If Bancorp is unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain the Company’s competitive position, Bancorp’s performance, including the Company’s competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, adversely affect Bancorp’s business, financial condition or results of operations.. Bancorp invests in partnerships that generate federal income tax savings and these may not continue.. Bancorp invests in certain partnerships that yield federal income tax credits resulting in higher net income for Bancorp. These transactions may also include lending to the developer, further enhancing the profitability of the transaction.  These transactions typically involve a very limited number of counterparties. The availability and suitability of these transactions are not particularly predictable and may not continue to be favorable to Bancorp. The recently enacted income tax reform could result in fewer transactions and the extent to which federal income tax credits favorably effect Bancorp’s net income. Therefore the positive effect on Bancorp’s net income may not continue.. 7. Table of Contents. Changes in customer use of banks could adversely affect Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operation.. The rapid evolution of non-bank alternatives for initiation and completion of financial transactions puts Bancorp at risk of losing sources of revenue and funding. The ability of customers to pay bills, transfer funds, and purchase assets without utilizing the banking system could result in loss of fee income, deposits, and loans. If Bancorp is unable to continue timely development of competitive new products and services, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The Current Expected Credit Loss (CECL) accounting standard will result in a significant change in how Bancorp recognizes credit losses and may have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.. In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an accounting standard update, “Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments,” which replaces the current “incurred loss” model for recognizing credit losses with an “expected loss” model. Whereas the incurred loss model delays recognition of loss on financial instruments until it is probable a loss has occurred, the expected loss model will necessitate recognizing a loss at the time the loan is first added to the balance sheet. As result of this differing methodology, Bancorp expects the adoption of the CECL model will materially affect the determination of the allowance for loan losses and could require a significant increase to the allowance. Any material increase to the required level of loan loss allowance could adversely affect Bancorp’s business, financial condition, and results of operation.. The CECL standard will become effective for Bancorp for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and for interim periods beginning with the first quarter of 2020. While the impact of implementing the CECL model cannot be quantified at this time, Bancorp expects to recognize a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to the allowance for loan losses and stockholders’ equity in the first quarter of 2020, consistent with interagency guidance issued in 2016."                     
