[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-looking statements are neither historical facts nor assurances of future performance. Instead, they are based only on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions regarding the future of our business, future plans and strategies, projections, anticipated events and trends, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict and many of which are outside of our control. Our actual results and financial condition may differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include, but are not limited to, the risks set forth below. The risks described below should not be considered comprehensive and all-inclusive. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If any events occur that give rise to the following risks, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Many such factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Investors are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We recently have not had sufficient cash from operations to pay distributions to our unitholders after we have paid our expenses, including the expenses of our general partner, funded merchandise and perpetual care trusts and established necessary cash reserves, and we may not have sufficient cash to resume paying distributions or restore them to previous levels.. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. • the volume of our sales;. • the prices at which we sell our products and services; and. • the level of our operating and general and administrative costs.. Given the Partnership's level of cash and cash equivalents, to preserve capital resources and liquidity, the Board of Directors of the General Partner concluded that it was not in the best interest of unitholders to pay distributions to unitholders after the first quarter of 2017. In addition, our revolving credit facility prohibits us from making distributions to unitholders unless we have at least $25.0 million of availability under that facility and we satisfy certain leverage ratios. We currently expect that any future distributions we do pay will not exceed our cash flow from operating activities.. If we do not generate sufficient cash to pay distributions or restore them to previous levels, the market price of our common units may decline materially or remain stagnant.. Our substantial level of indebtedness could materially adversely affect our ability to generate sufficient cash for distribution to our unitholders, to fulfill our debt obligations and to operate our business.. We have a substantial amount of debt, which requires significant interest and principal payments. As of December 31, 2017, we had $160.9 million of total debt outstanding on a revolving credit facility, which includes letters of credit totaling $7.5 million. We utilize our revolving credit facility to finance acquisitions, acquisition related costs, cemetery property development costs and working capital draws, which are used to finance all other Partnership costs. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.875% Senior Notes due 2021 outstanding. Leverage makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns. Our cash flow available for operations and for distribution to our unitholders is reduced by the cash flow we must dedicate to servicing our debt obligations. The amount of indebtedness we have could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete, limit our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes, and require us to dedicate more cash flow to service our debt than we desire. Our ability to satisfy our indebtedness as required by the terms of our debt will be dependent on, among other things, the successful execution of our long-term strategic plan. Subject to limitations in our debt obligations, we may incur additional debt in the future, for acquisitions or otherwise, and servicing this debt could further limit our cash flow available for operations and distribution to unitholders.. 11. Table of Contents. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our ability to make distributions to you or capitalize on acquisition and other business opportunities.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our senior notes and the indenture pursuant to which they were issued, our revolving credit facility and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, including working capital, or to expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our senior notes and our revolving credit facility contain covenants that restrict or limit our ability to:. • enter into a new line of business;. • enter into any agreement of merger or acquisition;. • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets;. • grant certain liens;. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • make certain loans, advances and investments;. • declare and pay dividends and distributions;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • make voluntary payments or modifications of indebtedness.. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. These restrictions may also limit our ability to obtain future financings. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our senior notes and the indenture pursuant to which they were issued and in our revolving credit facility agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. See Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.. In addition, our debt obligations limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our senior notes and revolving credit facility obligations prohibit us from making quarterly cash distributions if we are in default, including with regard to our revolving credit facility obligations as a result of our failure to maintain specified financial ratios. As amended, our revolving credit facility also prohibits us from making distributions to unitholders unless we have at least $25.0 million in availability under that facility and maintain a consolidated secured net leverage of not greater than 7.50:1.00. We cannot assure you that we will maintain these specified ratios and satisfy these tests for distributing available cash from operating surplus.. If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our revolving credit facility agreement or the indenture pursuant to which the senior notes were issued, the lenders will be able to accelerate the maturity of all borrowings thereunder, cause cross-default and demand repayment of amounts outstanding, and our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us under the revolving credit facility may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. Any subsequent replacement of our debt obligations or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions.. Our merchandise and perpetual care trust funds own investments in equity securities, fixed income securities and mutual funds, which are affected by financial market conditions that are beyond our control.. Pursuant to state law, a portion of the proceeds from pre-need sales of merchandise and services is put into merchandise trusts until such time that the Partnership meets the requirements for releasing trust principal, which is generally delivery of merchandise or performance of services. All investment earnings generated by the assets in the merchandise trusts, including realized gains and losses, generally are deferred until the associated merchandise is delivered or the services are performed.. Also, pursuant to state law, a portion of the proceeds from the sale of cemetery property is required to be paid into perpetual care trusts. The perpetual care trust principal does not belong to the Partnership and must remain in this trust in perpetuity while interest and dividends may be released and used to defray cemetery maintenance costs.. 12. Table of Contents. Our returns on these investments are affected by financial market conditions that are beyond our control. If the investments in our trust funds experience significant declines, there could be insufficient funds in the trusts to cover the costs of delivering services and merchandise. Pursuant to state law, we may be required to cover any such shortfall in merchandise trusts with cash flows from operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For more information related to our trust investments, see Note 6 and Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.. If the fair market value of these trusts, plus any other amount due to us upon delivery of the associated contracts, were to decline below the estimated costs to deliver the underlying products and services, we would record a charge to earnings to record a liability for the expected losses on the delivery of the associated contracts.. We may be required to replenish our funeral and cemetery trust funds in order to meet minimum funding requirements, which would have a negative effect on our earnings and cash flow.. In certain states, we have withdrawn allowable distributable earnings from our merchandise trusts, including gains prior to the maturity or cancellation of the related contract. Additionally, some states have laws that either require replenishment of investment losses under certain circumstances or impose various restrictions on withdrawals of future earnings when trust fund values drop below certain prescribed amounts. In the event of realized losses or market declines, we may be required to deposit portions or all of these amounts into the respective trusts in some future period. As of December 31, 2017, we had unrealized losses of approximately $9.8 million in the various trusts within these states, of which $6.7 million are in merchandise trust accounts and $3.1 million are in perpetual care trust accounts.. Any reductions in the principal or the earnings of the investments held in merchandise and perpetual care trusts could adversely affect our revenues and cash flow.. A substantial portion of our revenue is generated from investment returns that we realize from merchandise and perpetual care trusts. Unstable economic conditions have, at times, caused us to experience declines in the fair value of the assets held in these trusts. Future cash flows could be negatively impacted if we are forced to liquidate assets that are in impaired positions.. We invest primarily for generation of realized income. We rely on the earnings, interest and dividends paid by the assets in our trusts to provide both revenue and cash flow. Interest income from fixed-income securities is particularly susceptible to changes in interest rates and declines in credit worthiness while dividends from equity securities are susceptible to the issuer's ability to make such payments.. Any decline in the interest rate environment or the credit worthiness of our debt issuers or any suspension or reduction of dividends could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, any significant or sustained unrealized investment losses could result in merchandise trusts having insufficient funds to cover our cost of delivering products and services. In this scenario, we would be required to use our operating cash to deliver those products and perform those services, which would decrease our cash available for distribution.. Pre-need sales typically generate low or negative cash flow in the periods immediately following sales, which could adversely affect our ability to resume paying distributions to our unitholders.. When we sell cemetery merchandise and services on a pre-need basis, upon cash collection, we pay commissions on the sale to our salespeople and are required by state law to deposit a portion of the sales proceeds into a merchandise trust. In addition, most of our customers finance their pre-need purchases under installment contracts payable over a number of years. Depending on the trusting requirements of the states in which we operate, the applicable sales commission rates and the amount of the down payment, our cash flow from sales to customers through installment contracts is typically negative until we have collected the related receivable or until we purchase the products or perform the services and are permitted to withdraw funds we have deposited in the merchandise trust. To the extent we increase pre-need sales, state trusting requirements are increased or we delay the performance of the services or delivery of merchandise we sell on a pre-need basis, our cash flow from pre-need sales may be further reduced, and our ability to resume paying distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected.. The cemetery and funeral home industry continues to be competitive.. We face competition in all of our markets. Most of our competitors are independent operations. Our ability to compete successfully depends on our management's forward vision, timely responses to changes in the business environment, the ability of our cemeteries and funeral homes to maintain a good reputation and high professional standards as well as offer products and services at competitive prices. We have historically experienced price competition from independent cemetery and funeral home operators. If we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. 13. Table of Contents. Because fixed costs are inherent in our business, a decrease in our revenues can have a disproportionate effect on our cash flow and profits.. Our business requires us to incur many of the costs of operating and maintaining facilities, land and equipment regardless of the level of sales in any given period. For example, we must pay salaries, utilities, property taxes and maintenance costs on our cemetery properties and funeral homes regardless of the number of interments or funeral services we perform. If we cannot decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when we experience declines in sales, declines in sales can cause our margins, profits and cash flow to decline at a greater rate than the decline in our revenues.. Our failure to attract and retain qualified sales personnel and management could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. Our ability to attract and retain a qualified sales force and other personnel is an important factor in achieving future success. Buying cemetery and funeral home products and services, especially at-need products and services, is very emotional for most customers, so our sales force must be particularly sensitive to our customers' needs. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts to attract and retain a skilled sales force. If we are unable to maintain a qualified and productive sales force, our revenues may decline and our cash available for distribution may decrease.. Our success also depends upon the services and capabilities of our management team. Management establishes the \"tone at the top\" by which an environment of ethical values, operating style and management philosophy is fostered. The inability of our senior management team to maintain a proper \"tone at the top\" or the loss of services of one or more members of senior management as well as the inability to attract qualified managers or other personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. We do not maintain key employee insurance on any of our executive officers.. We may not be able to identify, complete, fund or successfully integrate our acquisitions, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. A primary component of our business strategy has been to grow through acquisitions of cemeteries and funeral homes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and acquire cemeteries or funeral homes on terms favorable to us or at all. We may face competition from other death care companies in making acquisitions. Historically, we have funded a significant portion of our acquisitions through borrowings. As amended, our revolving credit facility prohibits us from making future acquisitions funded by the Partnership or its subsidiaries, except for acquisitions for which the consideration is solely in the form of equity interests in the Partnership or cash proceeds from the issuance of such equity interests. Our ability to make acquisitions in the future may be limited by our inability to secure adequate financing, restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from third parties or a lack of suitable properties.. In addition, if we complete acquisitions, we may encounter various associated risks, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, diversion of management's attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Also, when we acquire cemeteries that do not have an existing pre-need sales program or a significant amount of pre-need products and services that have been sold but not yet purchased or performed, the operation of the cemetery and implementation of a pre-need sales program after acquisition may require significant amounts of working capital. This may make it more difficult for us to make acquisitions.. If we are not able to respond effectively to changing consumer preferences, our market share, revenues and profitability could decrease.. Future market share, revenues and profits will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences. In past years, we have implemented new product and service strategies based on results of customer surveys that we conduct on a continuous basis. However, we may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences, or we may identify them later than our competitors do. In addition, any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove incorrect or ineffective.. 14. Table of Contents. If the trend toward cremation in the United States continues, our revenues may decline, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We and other death care companies that focus on traditional methods of interment face competition from the increasing number of cremations in the United States. Industry studies indicate that the percentage of cremations has steadily increased and that cremations are performed for approximately 52% of the deaths in the United States. This percentage is expected to increase to approximately 56% by 2020 and 64% by 2025. Because the products and services associated with cremations, such as niches and urns, produce lower revenues than the products and services associated with traditional interments, a continuing trend toward cremation may reduce our revenues.. Declines in the number of deaths in our markets can cause a decrease in revenues.. Declines in the number of deaths could cause at-need sales of cemetery and funeral home merchandise and services to decline and could cause a decline in the number of pre-need sales, both of which could decrease revenues. Changes in the number of deaths can vary among local markets and from quarter to quarter, and variations in the number of deaths in our markets or from quarter to quarter are not predictable. Generally, the number of deaths may fluctuate depending on weather conditions and illness.. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively.. Our ability to manage and maintain our internal reports effectively and integration of new business acquisitions depends significantly on our operational technology platform and other information systems. Some of our information technology systems may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with ongoing systems implementation work. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, misappropriation of our confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. The failure of our systems to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, or a breach in security or other unauthorized access of these systems, may also result in reduced efficiency of our operations and could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach and to comply with applicable regulations, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to existing federal and state laws and regulations governing data privacy, security and cybersecurity in the United States. These regulations include privacy and security rules regarding employee-related and third-party information when a data breach results in the release of personally identifiable information, as well as those rules imposed by the banking and payment card industries to protect against identity theft and fraud in connection with the collection of payments from customers. Incidents in which we fail to protect our customers' information against security breaches could result in monetary damages against us and could otherwise damage our reputation, harm our businesses and adversely impact our results of operations. If we fail to protect our own information, including information about our employees, we could experience significant costs and expenses as well as damage to our reputation.. The financial condition of third-party insurance companies that fund our pre-need funeral contracts and the amount of benefits those policies ultimately pay may impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Where permitted, customers may arrange their pre-need funeral contract by purchasing a life insurance or annuity policy from third-party insurance companies. The customer/policy holder assigns the policy benefits to our funeral home to pay for the pre-need funeral contract at the time of need. For the sales of pre-need funeral contracts funded through life insurance policies, we receive commissions from third-party insurance companies. Additionally, there is a death benefit associated with the contract that may vary over the contract life. There is no guarantee that the value of the death benefit will increase or cover future increases in the cost of providing a funeral service. If the financial condition of the third-party insurance companies were to deteriorate materially because of market conditions or otherwise, there could be an adverse effect on our ability to collect all or part of the proceeds of the life insurance or annuity policy, including any increase in the death benefit. Failure to collect such proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. 15. Table of Contents. Partnership liquidity may be impacted by its ability to negotiate bonding arrangements with third-party insurance companies.. Where permitted, the Partnership may enter into bonding arrangements with insurance companies whereby pre-need performance obligations otherwise required to be trusted, may be insured through a process called bonding. In the event that the Partnership is unable to deliver on bonded pre-need contract sales at the time of need, the insurance company will provide cash sufficient to deliver goods for the respective pre-need sale item. On an ongoing basis, the Partnership must negotiate acceptable terms of these various bonding arrangements. To the extent that the Partnership is unable to negotiate acceptable terms for such arrangements and thus is no longer able to maintain existing bonds, it would need to deposit the corresponding amounts in the merchandise trusts, which would have an adverse impact on the Partnership's liquidity.. REGULATORY AND LEGAL RISKS. Our operations are subject to regulation, supervision and licensing under numerous federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, including extensive regulations concerning trusts/escrows, pre-need sales, cemetery ownership, funeral home ownership, marketing practices, crematories, environmental matters and various other aspects of our business.. If state laws or interpretations of existing state laws change or if new laws are enacted, we may be required to increase trust deposits or to alter the timing of withdrawals from trusts, which may have a negative impact on our revenues and cash flow.. We are required by most state laws to deposit specified percentages of the proceeds from our pre-need and at-need sales of interment rights into perpetual care trusts and proceeds from our pre-need sales of cemetery and funeral home products and services into merchandise trusts. These laws also determine when we are allowed to withdraw funds from those trusts. If those laws or the interpretations of those laws change or if new laws are enacted, we may be required to deposit more of the sales proceeds we receive from our sales into the trusts or to defer withdrawals from the trusts, thereby decreasing our cash flow until we are permitted to withdraw the deposited amounts. This could also reduce our cash available for distribution.. If state laws relating to the ownership of cemeteries and funeral homes or their interpretations change, or new laws are enacted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Some states require cemeteries to be organized in the nonprofit form but may permit those nonprofit entities to contract with for-profit companies for management services. If state laws change or new laws are enacted that prohibit us from managing cemeteries in those states, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Some state laws restrict ownership of funeral homes to licensed funeral directors. If state laws change or new laws are enacted that prohibit us from managing funeral homes in those instances, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We are subject to legal restrictions on our marketing practices that could reduce the volume of our sales, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. The enactment or amendment of legislation or regulations relating to marketing activities may make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services. For example, the federal \"do not call\" legislation has adversely affected our ability to market our products and services using telephone solicitation by limiting whom we may call and increasing our costs of compliance. As a result, we rely heavily on direct mail marketing and telephone follow-up with existing contacts. Additional laws or regulations limiting our ability to market through direct mail, over the telephone, through Internet and e-mail advertising or door-to-door may make it difficult to identify potential customers, which could increase our costs of marketing. Both increases in marketing costs and restrictions on our ability to market effectively could reduce our revenues and could have an adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to make cash distributions to you.. We are subject to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations that may adversely affect our operating results.. Our cemetery and funeral home operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We may become subject to liability for the removal of hazardous substances and solid waste under CERCLA and other federal and state laws. Under CERCLA and similar state laws, strict, joint and several liability may be imposed on various parties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal activity. Our funeral home, cemetery and crematory operations include the use of some materials that may meet the definition of \"hazardous substances\" under CERCLA or state laws and thus may give rise to liability if released to the environment through a spill or release. We cannot assure you that we will not face liability under CERCLA or state laws for any environmental conditions at our facilities, and we cannot assure you that these liabilities will not be material. Our cemetery and funeral home operations are subject to regulation of underground and above ground storage tanks and laws managing the disposal of solid waste. If new requirements under local, state or federal laws were to be adopted, and were more stringent than existing requirements, new permits or capital expenditures may be required.. 16. Table of Contents. Our funeral home operations are generally subject to federal and state laws and regulations regarding the disposal of medical waste, and are also subject to regulation by federal, state or local authorities under EPCRA. We are required by EPCRA to maintain and report to the regulatory authorities, if applicable thresholds are met, a list of any hazardous chemicals and extremely hazardous substances which are stored or used at our facilities.. Our crematory operations may be subject to regulation under the federal Clean Air Act and any analogous state laws. If new regulations applicable to our crematory operations were to be adopted, they could require permits or capital expenditures that could increase our costs of operation and compliance. We are also subject to the Clean Water Act and corresponding state laws, as well as local requirements applicable to the treatment of sanitary and industrial wastewaters. Many of our funeral homes discharge their wastewaters into publicly operated treatment works and may be subject to applicable limits as to contaminants that may be included in the discharge of their wastewater. Our cemeteries typically discharge their wastewaters from sanitary use and maintenance operations conducted onsite into septic systems, which are regulated under state and local laws. If there are violations of applicable local, state or federal laws pertaining to our discharges of wastewaters, we may be subject to penalties as well as an obligation to conduct required remediation.. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation.. From time to time, we are party to various claims and legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, claims and proceedings regarding employment, cemetery or burial practices and other litigation. As set forth more fully in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings, we are currently subject to class actions under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, and for related state law claims that certain of our officers and directors breached their fiduciary duty to the Company. We could also become subject to additional claims and legal proceedings relating to the factual allegations made in these actions. We are also subject to class or collective actions under the wage and hours provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws, including, but not limited to, national and state class or collective actions, or putative class or collective actions.. Generally, plaintiffs in class action litigation may seek to recover amounts which may be indeterminable for some period of time, although potentially large. Adverse outcomes in these pending cases (as well as other legal proceedings not specifically mentioned herein) may result in monetary damages or injunctive relief against us, as litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties. For each of our outstanding legal matters, we evaluate the merits of the case, our exposure to the matter, possible legal or settlement strategies and the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome. We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates. Costs to defend litigation claims and legal proceedings and the cost of actual settlements, judgments or resolutions of these claims and legal proceedings may negatively affect our business and financial performance. We hold insurance policies that may reduce cash outflows with respect to an adverse outcome of certain litigation matters, but exclude certain claims, such as claims arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act. To the extent that our management will be required to participate in or otherwise devote substantial amounts of time to the defense of these matters, such activities would result in the diversion of our management resources from our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy, which may negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal proceedings may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations.. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN THE PARTNERSHIP. Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to your detriment.. GP Holdings, as the sole member of our general partner, owns all of the Class A units of our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between GP Holdings and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of the unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. • The Board of Directors of our general partner is elected by GP Holdings, except that Lawrence R. Miller and William Shane acting collectively have the right to designate Mr. Miller as a director until November 2019. Although our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in good faith, the directors of our general partner also have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to GP Holdings, as the sole member of our general partner. By purchasing common units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law.. • Our partnership agreement limits the liability of our general partner, reduces its fiduciary duties and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. 17. Table of Contents. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional limited partner interests and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to unitholders.. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf.. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates.. • In some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds or sell assets outside of the ordinary course of business in order to permit the payment of distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make distributions in respect of incentive distribution rights.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which the common units will trade.. Unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not select our general partner or elect the Board of Directors of our general partner and will have no right to select our general partner or elect its Board of Directors in the future. We are not required to have a majority of independent directors on our board. The Board of Directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is not chosen by our unitholders. GP Holdings, as the sole member of StoneMor GP, is entitled to elect all directors of StoneMor GP, except that Messrs. Miller and Shane acting collectively have the right to designate Mr. Miller as a director as described above. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any person that beneficially owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than the general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors of our general partner, cannot vote the units on any matter. In addition, the partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management.. Our general partner can transfer its ownership interest in us without unitholder consent under certain circumstances, and the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the owners of our general partner to transfer their ownership interest in the general partner to a third party. The new owner of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and officers of the general partner with its own choices and thereby influence the decisions taken by the Board of Directors and officers. Such a change of control could require us to offer to repurchase notes at a premium issued under our indenture, significantly impacting available cash for distribution to our common unit holders.. We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests.. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of the unitholders.. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects:. • your proportionate ownership interest in us would decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished;. • the market price of the common units may decline; and. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase.. 18. Table of Contents. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner may be substantial and will reduce the cash available for distribution to you.. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to you. Our general partner determines the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us with other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner.. Establishing cash reserves reduces the amount of available cash for distribution to you.. Subject to the limitations on restricted payments contained in the indenture governing the 7.875% Senior Notes due 2021 and other indebtedness, the master partnership distributes all of our \"available cash\" each quarter to its limited partners and general partner. \"Available cash\" is defined in the master limited partnership's partnership agreement, and it generally means, for each fiscal quarter, all cash and cash equivalents on hand on the date of determination for that quarter less the amount of cash reserves established at the discretion of the general partner to:. • provide for the proper conduct of our business;. • comply with applicable law, the terms of any of our debt instruments or other agreements; or. • provide funds for distributions to its unitholders and general partner for any one or more of the next four calendar quarters.. Our general partner reserved available cash starting the second quarter of 2017 to preserve capital resources and liquidity and did not authorize any distributions for the last three quarters of 2017. We anticipate continuing to reserve available cash for such purposes, which, when combined with the restrictions on distributions under our revolving credit facility, will continue to affect the amount of cash available for distribution to you.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price.. If, at any time, our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon the sale of your common units.. You may be required to repay distributions that you have received from us.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, we may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Assignees who become substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership. However, assignees are not liable for obligations unknown to the assignee at the time the assignee became a limited partner if the liabilities could not be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. We have restated our prior consolidated financial statements, which may lead to additional risks and uncertainties, including loss of investor confidence and negative impacts on our stock price.. As reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, we have previously restated certain financial information as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 and for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2016 (the \"Restated Periods\"). The determination to restate the financial statements for the Restated Periods was approved by the Board of Directors of StoneMor GP LLC upon management's recommendation following the identification of certain errors described in that Annual Report on Form 10-K, which also included amendments to reflect the restatement of our financial statements for the Restated Periods (the \"Restatement\").. 19. Table of Contents. As a result of these events, we were subject to a number of additional costs and risks, including unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the Restatement and the remediation of our ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attention of our management team has been diverted by these efforts. We could be subject to additional unitholder, governmental or other actions in connection with the Restatement or other matters. Any such proceedings will, regardless of the outcome, consume a significant amount of management's time and attention and may result in additional legal, accounting, insurance and other costs. If we do not prevail in any such proceedings, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. In addition, the Restatement and related matters could impair our reputation or could cause our counterparties to lose confidence in us. Each of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and unit price.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective which could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a- 15(e) and 13a-15(f), respectively, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As disclosed in Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2017. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Our independent registered public accounting firm also expressed an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. We have developed and are in the process of implementing the remediation plan to address the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and ineffective disclosure controls and procedures. If our remedial measures are insufficient, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls occur in the future, we could be required to further restate our financial results, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require us to expend significant resources to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies, harm our reputation or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence.. Our inability to timely file periodic reports we are required to file under the Exchange Act may adversely affect our liquidity, the market for our common units and our business reputation.. We are filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K approximately four months after it was due. Because of the time required to complete and file this report, we also were unable to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended March 31, 2018 (the \"First Quarter 10-Q\") and are unlikely to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter Ended June 30, 2018 (the \"Second Quarter 10-Q\").. Under the terms of our Credit Agreement dated August 4, 2016 among our 100% owned subsidiary, StoneMor Operating LLC (the \"Operating Company\"), each of the subsidiaries of the Operating Company (together with the Operating Company, \"Borrowers\"), the Lenders identified therein, Capital One, National Association (\"Capital One\"), as Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender, Citizens Bank of Pennsylvania, as Syndication Agent, and TD Bank, N.A. and Raymond James Bank, N.A., as Co-Documentation Agent, as amended, we were required to deliver to Capital One (a) the audited financial statements included herein on or before August 31, 2018, (b) the unaudited financial statements that will be included in the First Quarter 10-Q within 90 days after this Annual Report on Form 10-K was filed (but not later than October 31, 2018), (c) the unaudited financial statements that will be included in the Second Quarter 10-Q within 60 days after the First Quarter 10-Q is filed (but not later than December 17, 2018) and (d) the unaudited financial statements to be included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2018 (the \"Third Quarter 10-Q\") within 45 days after the Second Quarter 10-Q is filed (but not later than January 31, 2019). We expect to be able to deliver to Capital One the unaudited financial statements required to be included in the First Quarter 10-Q, the Second Quarter 10-Q and the Third Quarter 10-Q by the specified dates, but there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. If we do not timely deliver the unaudited financial statements that will be included in those reports, then as a result of the event of default under the Credit Agreement, as amended: (i) each Lender's respective commitments under the Credit Agreement, including their respective commitments to make revolving loans thereunder, may be terminated effective immediately, and (ii) the loans then outstanding and all fees and other obligations due under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents (as defined in the Credit Agreement) may become immediately due and payable in whole or in part. In addition, regardless of whether either of these remedies is exercised, the Lenders would have the right to increase the interest rate on all loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement by 2%.. 20. Table of Contents. In addition, pursuant to the indenture under which our 7.875% Senior Notes due 2021 (the \"Notes\") were issued (the \"Indenture\"), we were required to file the First Quarter 10-Q with the SEC (or furnish to the holders of the Notes (the \"Holders\"), with a copy to the trustee under the Indenture (the \"Trustee\"), the financial information that would be required to be contained in such report) on or before May 15, 2018, and we will be required to file the Second Quarter 10-Q with the SEC (or so furnish the financial information required to be included therein) on or before August 14, 2018. Our failure to comply with the deadline for the First Quarter 10-Q constituted, and any failure to comply with the deadline for the Second Quarter 10-Q would constitue, a default under the Indenture that we will have 120 days after any written notice of such default is given to us to cure by filing such report with the SEC.. As previously disclosed, we received on April 3, 2018 a notice from NYSE Regulation, Inc. (the \"NYSE\") indicating that we were not in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing requirements as a result of the delay in filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we remain non-compliant as a result of our failure to file the First Quarter 10-Q by May 15, 2018 and would continue to be non-compliant if we do not file the Second Quarter 10-Q by August 14, 2018. Although the NYSE's guidelines provide for an initial six-month period in which to cure a filing delinquency, the NYSE reserves the right to commence suspension or delisting procedures at any time following a filing delinquency. There can be no assurance that we will be able to file the First Quarter 10-Q and the Second Quarter 10-Q before the NYSE acts to suspend trading in or delist our common units.. As a result of our inability to timely file our periodic reports under the Exchange Act, we will not be eligible to use Form S-3 registration statements until we have timely filed such periodic reports with the SEC for a period of twelve months.. We filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, approximately six months after it was due. We also were unable to timely file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the Quarters Ended March 31, 2017, June 30, 2017 and September 30, 2017 when they were due.. The cumulative effect of these delayed filings may also affect the market for our common units if investors are unwilling to purchase our common units due to these filing deficiencies. The unavailability of Form S-3 registration statements may also impact our ability to raise capital in the public markets. In addition, our inability to timely file our periodic reports and the conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective (as discussed in Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) may adversely affect our reputation among investors, securities analysts, customers, regulators, prospective employees and others with whom we interact on a regular basis.. We have experienced significant changes in our senior management, which may have adversely affected our operations.. In May 2017, the retirement of Lawrence Miller and resignation of Sean McGrath as our President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, respectively, became effective, and they were succeeded by R. Paul Grady and Mark Miller, respectively. Mr. Grady resigned effective March 30, 2018. In addition, in August 2016, David L. Meyers stepped down as our Chief Operating Officer. Leo J. Pound served as Acting Chief Operating Officer from April 2017 until September 2017 and currently serves as Interim Chief Executive Officer, from which he will resign when Joseph M. Redling begins service as our President and Chief Executive Officer on the business day after this Annual Report on Form 10-K is filed. We also have had several other changes in our senior management since January 1, 2017. These changes have led to diversion of time by both our management and our Board of Directors in focusing on recruiting and hiring suitable replacements and assisting in the transition of our new executives, which may have adversely affected our operations and may continue to do so until our new executives have completed their transitions into their new positions.. TAX RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as us not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to you and payments on our debt obligations would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, because our common units are publicly traded, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement as set forth in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"Code\"). Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, no ruling has been or will be requested regarding our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated and taxed as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. 21. Table of Contents. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Moreover, treatment of us as a corporation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make payments on our debt obligations.. Additionally, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. We currently own assets and conduct business in the majority of states and Puerto Rico, many of which impose a margin or franchise tax. In the future, we may expand our operations. Imposition of a similar tax on us in other jurisdictions to which we may expand could substantially reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and payments on our debt obligations. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted, modified or interpreted in a manner that subject us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state, local, or foreign income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law or interpretation on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations, upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. However, any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or to the regulations under Section 7704 of the Code may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be enacted. Any similar or future legislation could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units.. We have subsidiaries that will be treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes.. Some of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries that are organized as Subchapter C corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, these corporate subsidiaries are subject to corporate-level tax, which reduces the cash available for distribution to our partnership and, in turn, to you. If the IRS were to successfully assert that these corporations have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, the cash available for distribution could be further reduced.. Audit adjustments to the taxable income of our corporate subsidiaries for prior taxable years may reduce the net operating loss carryforwards of such subsidiaries and thereby increase their tax liabilities for future taxable periods.. Our business was conducted by an affiliated group of corporations during periods prior to the completion of our initial public offering and, since the initial public offering, continues to be conducted in part by corporate subsidiaries. The amount of cash dividends we receive from our corporate subsidiaries over the next several years will depend in part upon the amount of net operating losses available to those subsidiaries to reduce the amount of income subject to federal income tax they would otherwise pay. At December 31, 2017, the Partnership had available approximately $349.4 million and $429.5 million of federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, respectively, a portion of which expires annually. Net operating losses of $1.0 million expired in 2017 and net operating losses of $5.5 million will expire in 2018 if left unused. The amount of net operating losses available to reduce the income tax liability of our corporate subsidiaries in future taxable years could be reduced as a result of audit adjustments with respect to prior taxable years. Notwithstanding any limited indemnification rights we may have, any increase in the tax liabilities of our corporate subsidiaries because of a reduction in net operating losses will reduce our cash available for distribution.. 22. Table of Contents. Changes in the ownership of our units may result in annual limitations on our corporate subsidiaries' ability to use their net operating loss carryforwards, which could increase their tax liabilities and decrease cash available for distribution in future taxable periods.. Our corporate subsidiaries' ability to use their net operating loss carryforwards may be limited if changes in the ownership of our units causes our corporate subsidiaries to undergo an \"ownership change\" under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change will occur if the percentage of our units, based on the value of the units, owned by certain unitholders or groups of unitholders increases by more than fifty percentage points during a running three-year period. Recent changes in our ownership may result in an \"ownership change.\" A future ownership change may result from issuances of our units, sales or other dispositions of our units by certain significant unitholders, certain acquisitions of our units, and issuances, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in significant unitholders, and we will have little to no control over any such events. To the extent that an annual net operating loss limitation for any one year does restrict the ability of our corporate subsidiaries to use their net operating loss carryforwards, an increase in tax liabilities of our corporate subsidiaries could result, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to you.. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units could be adversely impacted, and the cost of any such contest would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the cost of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders.. There are limitations on the ability of a unitholder to utilize losses, and the IRS may not agree with the manner in which we allocate income, gain and loss among the unitholders.. There are a series of tax provisions that will, for some taxpayers, either prevent or defer the deduction of any net tax losses allocated to unitholders against other income; each unitholder should consult with its own tax advisor as to the applicability of these loss limitations. Further, under Section 704(b) of the Code, which governs allocations of a partnership, an allocation of income, gain, loss or deduction to a unitholder will not be given effect for federal income tax purposes unless it has \"substantial economic effect\" or is in accordance with the unitholder's interest, taking into account all facts and circumstances. These allocation rules are extremely complex. If an allocation of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit is not given effect for federal income tax purposes by the Internal Revenue Service, such items may be reallocated among the unitholders. Such reallocations among the Partners could result in greater taxable income or losses being allocated to the unitholders with no change in cash flow.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised Schedule K-1 to each unitholder with respect to an unaudited and adjusted return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance the election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders could be substantially reduced. These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Even if unitholders do not receive any cash distributions from us, unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of taxable income including their share of income from the cancellation of debt.. Unitholders are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on unitholders' share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from them with respect to that income.. 23. Table of Contents. In response to current market conditions, we may engage in transactions to delever the Partnership and manage our liquidity that may result in income and gain to our unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale without receiving a cash distribution. Further, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases or modifications of our existing debt, could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" (also referred to as (\"COD income\") being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income. Unitholders may be allocated COD income, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed cash distributions. The ultimate effect of any such allocations will depend on each unitholder's individual tax position with respect to its units. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to the consequences to them of COD income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than unitholders expect.. If a unitholder sells common units, the unitholder will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and that unitholder's tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of unitholders' allocable share of our net taxable income decrease their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units unitholders sell will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if they sell such units at a price greater than their adjusted tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if they sell their units, unitholders may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from the sale of your common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture and other items. Thus, you may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of your units if the amount realized on a sale of your units is less than your adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which you sell your units, you may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to you prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investments in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (or \"IRAs\"), and non-U.S. persons raise issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to unitholders that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons are subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on its share of our taxable income. Any tax-exempt entity or non-U.S. person should consult its tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocated certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but the regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we could be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. 24. Table of Contents. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes.. We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders which would result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the unitholder's taxable year that includes our termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in us being treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. This provision was eliminated starting in 2018 as a result of the new tax reform legislation.. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including foreign, state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property, even if our unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file foreign, state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.. Currently, we own assets or conduct business in the majority of states and in Puerto Rico. Most of these various jurisdictions currently impose, or may in the future impose, an income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or do business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns.. 25. Table of Contents"
