[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. This report contains \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of U.S. federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are all statements other than statements of historical facts, such as statements regarding projections or expectations related to operational and financial performance or liquidity, reimbursements for infrastructure costs, financing and regulatory matters, development plans and sales of properties, leasing activities, timeframes for development, construction and completion of our projects, capital expenditures, liquidity and capital resources, the impact of tax reform on our operations, and other plans and objectives of management for future operations and activities. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. We caution readers that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements include the following:. Risks Relating to our Business and Industries. We need significant amounts of cash to service our debt.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt, our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected.. Our business strategy requires us to rely on cash flow from operations and our debt agreements as our primary sources of funding for our liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2017, our outstanding debt totaled $221.5 million and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $14.6 million. Our level of indebtedness could have significant consequences. For example, it could:. 6. Table of Contents. • Increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in economic and industry conditions;. • Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations and proceeds from asset sales to pay or provide for our indebtedness, thus reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes;. • Limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the market in which we operate;. • Place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; and. • Limit our ability to borrow money to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other financing needs.. Historically, much of our debt has been renewed or refinanced in the ordinary course of business. Any deterioration of current economic conditions in our areas of operations could impact our ability to refinance our debt and obtain renewals or replacement of credit enhancement devices on favorable terms or at all. In the future we may not be able to obtain sufficient external sources of liquidity on attractive terms, if at all, or otherwise renew, extend or refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt scheduled to become due in the near future. There can be no assurance that we will maintain cash reserves and generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. Any of these occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. For example, our inability to extend, repay or refinance our debt when it becomes due, including upon a default or acceleration event, could force us to sell properties on unfavorable terms or ultimately result in foreclosure on properties pledged as collateral, which could result in a loss of our investment and harm our reputation.. The terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness include restrictive covenants and require that certain financial ratios be maintained. For example, the minimum stockholders' equity covenant contained in several of our debt agreements requires us to maintain total stockholders' equity of no less than $110.0 million. At December 31, 2017, our total stockholders' equity was $127.3 million and, as a result, we were in compliance with this covenant. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our loan documents could result in a default that may, if not cured, accelerate the payment under our debt obligations which would likely have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to comply with our covenants will depend upon our future economic performance. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations, satisfy our capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be desirable or advantageous to us.. In order to maintain compliance with the covenants in our debt agreements and carry out our business plan, we may need to raise additional capital through equity transactions or obtain waivers or modifications of covenants from our lenders. Such additional funding may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, when needed. We also may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business to fund our development projects and our operations. There can be no assurance that such additional financing will be available when needed or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify.. We are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. Any downgrades in our credit rating could impact our ability to borrow by increasing borrowing costs as well as limiting our access to capital. In addition, a downgrade could require us to post cash collateral and/or letters of credit, which would adversely affect our cash flow and liquidity.. Additionally, a portion of our outstanding debt bears interest at variable rates. See \"Disclosures About Market Risks\" in Part II, Items 7. and 7A. for more information.. We are vulnerable to concentration risks because our operations are almost exclusive to the Austin, Texas market.. Our real estate operations are primarily, and our hotel and entertainment venue operations are entirely, located in Austin, Texas. While our real estate operations have expanded to include select Texas markets outside of Austin, including College Station, Magnolia and West Killeen, the geographic concentration of the majority of our operations and limited number of projects we may have under development at a given time means that our operations are more vulnerable to local economic downturns and adverse project-specific risks than those of larger, more. 7. Table of Contents. diversified companies. The performance of the Austin economy greatly affects our sales and consequently the underlying values of our properties. Our geographic concentration may create increased vulnerability during regional economic downturns, which can significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. See \"Overview - Real Estate Market Conditions\" in Part II, Items 7. and 7A. for more information.. The success of our business is significantly related to general economic conditions and, accordingly, our business could be harmed by any slowdown or deterioration in the economy.. Periods of economic weakness or recession; significantly rising interest rates; declining employment levels; declining demand for real estate; declining real estate values; conditions which negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents, the financial condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries; or the public perception that any of these events or conditions may occur or be present, may negatively affect our business. These economic conditions can result in a general decline in acquisition, disposition and leasing activity, demand for hotel rooms and related lodging services, a general decline in the value of real estate and in rents, which in turn reduces revenue derived from property sales and leases and hotel operations as well as revenues associated with development activities. These conditions can also lead to a decline in property sales prices as well as a decline in funds invested in existing commercial real estate and related assets and properties planned for development. In addition, during periods of economic slowdown and recession, many consumers have historically reduced their discretionary spending, and our entertainment businesses depend on discretionary consumer and corporate spending. A reduction in consumer spending historically is accompanied by a decrease in attendance at live entertainment, sporting and leisure events, which may result in reductions in ticket sales, sponsorship opportunities and our ability to generate revenue with our entertainment businesses.. During an economic downturn, investment capital is usually constrained and it may take longer for us to dispose of real estate investments. As a result, the value of our real estate investments may be reduced and we could realize losses or diminished profitability. If economic and market conditions decline, our business performance and profitability could deteriorate. If this were to occur, we could fail to comply with certain financial covenants in our debt agreements, which would force us to seek waivers or amendments with our lenders. No assurance can be given that we would be able to obtain any necessary waivers or amendments on satisfactory terms, if at all.. Changes in weather conditions or natural disasters could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our performance may be adversely affected by weather conditions in or near our areas of operations. For our real estate operations, adverse weather may delay development or damage property, resulting in substantial repair or replacement costs to the extent not covered by insurance, a reduction in property values, or a loss of revenue, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may be affected differently by such changes in weather conditions or natural disasters depending on the location of their supplies or operations. Adverse weather conditions also may affect our live music events. Due to weather conditions, we may be required to reschedule an event to another available day, which would increase our costs for the event and could negatively affect the attendance at the event, as well as concession and merchandise sales, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate to cover any losses we may incur.. We maintain insurance on our properties, including property, liability, fire and extended coverage. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as hurricanes and floods or acts of war or terrorism that may be uninsurable or not economical to insure. We use our discretion when determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibles for insurance. These terms are determined based on retaining an acceptable level of risk at a reasonable cost. This may result in insurance coverage that in the event of a substantial loss would not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of our lost investment. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also may make it unfeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a building or other facility after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive may be inadequate to restore our economic position in a property. In addition, we may become liable for injuries and accidents occurring during the construction process that are underinsured.. 8. Table of Contents. The loss of certain key senior management personnel could negatively affect our business.. We depend on our two executive officers and other key personnel. Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer has been employed by the company since its inception in 1992. He has served as President since August 1996, Chief Executive Officer since May 1998 and Chairman of the Board since August 1998. Our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer has been employed by the company since 2009. The loss of any of our key senior management personnel could negatively affect our business.. Our business may be adversely affected by information technology disruptions.. Cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. Although we have not experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past, there can be no assurance that we will not experience them in the future. Given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Relating to Real Estate Operations. The real estate business is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and financially stronger than we are.. The real estate business is highly competitive. We compete with a large number of companies and individuals that have significantly greater financial, sales, marketing and other resources than we have. Our competitors include local developers who are committed primarily to particular markets and also national developers who acquire properties throughout the United States. A downturn in the real estate industry could significantly increase competition among developers. Increased competition could cause us to increase our selling incentives and/or reduce our prices. An oversupply of real estate properties available for sale or lease, as well as the potential significant discounting of prices by some of our competitors, may adversely affect our results of operations.. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition are greatly affected by the performance of the real estate industry.. Revenue from our real estate operations segment accounted for 14 percent of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. real estate industry is highly cyclical and is affected by changes in global, national and local economic conditions and events such as general employment and income levels, availability of financing, interest rates, consumer confidence and overbuilding of or decrease in demand for residential and commercial real estate. Our real estate activities are subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including local real estate market conditions (both where our properties are located and in areas where our potential customers reside), substantial existing and potential competition, general national, regional and local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and mortgage availability, changes in demographic conditions and changes in government regulations or requirements. Any of the foregoing factors could result in a reduction or cancellation of sales and/or lower gross margins for sales. Lower than expected sales could have a material adverse effect on the level of our profits and the timing and amounts of our cash flows.. Real estate investments often cannot easily be converted into cash and market values may be adversely affected by these economic circumstances, market fundamentals, and competitive and demographic conditions. Because of the effect these factors have on real estate values, it is difficult to predict the level of future sales or sales prices that will be realized for individual assets.. Our operations are subject to an intensive regulatory approval process and opposition from environmental groups, either or both of which could cause delays and increase the costs of our development efforts or preclude such developments entirely.. Before we can develop a property, we must obtain a variety of approvals from local and state governments with respect to such matters as zoning and other land use issues, and subdivision, site planning and environmental issues under applicable regulations. Some of these approvals are discretionary. Because government agencies and. 9. Table of Contents. special interest groups have in the past expressed concerns about our development plans in or near Austin, our ability to develop these properties and realize future income from our properties could be delayed, reduced, prevented or made more expensive.. Several special interest groups have in the past opposed our plans in the Austin area and have taken various actions to partially or completely restrict development in some areas, including areas where some of our most valuable properties are located. We have actively opposed these actions. However, because of the regulatory environment that has existed in the Austin area and the opposition of these special interest groups, there can be no assurance that an unfavorable ruling would not have a significant long-term adverse effect on the overall value of our property holdings.. Our operations are subject to environmental regulation, which can change at any time and could increase our costs.. Real estate development is subject to state and federal environmental regulations and to possible interruption or termination because of environmental considerations, including, without limitation, air and water quality and protection of endangered species and their habitats.. Certain of the Barton Creek and Lantana properties include nesting territories for the Golden-cheeked Warbler, a federally listed endangered species. In 1995, we received a permit from the U.S. Wildlife Service pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, which to date has allowed the development of the Barton Creek and Lantana properties free of restrictions under the Endangered Species Act related to the maintenance of habitat for the Golden-cheeked Warbler.. Additionally, in April 1997, the U.S. Department of Interior listed the Barton Springs salamander as an endangered species after a federal court overturned a March 1997 decision by the Department of Interior not to list the Barton Springs Salamander based on a conservation agreement between the State of Texas and federal agencies. The listing of the Barton Springs Salamander has not affected, nor do we anticipate it will affect, our Barton Creek and Lantana properties for several reasons, including the results of technical studies and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 10(a) permit obtained by us in 1995. The development permitted by the 2002 Circle C settlement with the city of Austin has been reviewed and approved by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and, as a result, we also do not anticipate that the 1997 listing of the Barton Springs Salamander will affect our Circle C properties.. In January 2013, the U.S. Department of the Interior announced that it had conducted an economic assessment of the potential designation of critical habitat for four species of Central Texas salamanders. Although this potential designation of habitat has not affected, nor do we anticipate that it will affect, our Barton Creek, Lantana or Circle C properties for several reasons, including prior studies and approvals, and our existing U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 10(a) permit obtained in 1995, future endangered species listings or habitat designations could impact development of our properties.. We are making, and will continue to make, expenditures with respect to our real estate development for the protection of the environment. Emphasis on environmental matters will result in additional costs in the future. New environmental regulations or changes in existing regulations or their enforcement may be enacted and such new regulations or changes may require significant expenditures by us. The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulations is likely to continue and could have a material adverse effect on our operating costs.. Risks Relating to Leasing Operations. Unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions could negatively affect occupancy or rental rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.. A decline in the real estate market and economic conditions could significantly affect rental rates. Occupancy and rental rates in our market, in turn, could significantly affect our profitability and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations. The risks that could affect conditions in our market include the following:. • Local conditions, such as an oversupply of office space, a decline in the demand for office space or increased competition from other available office buildings;. 10. Table of Contents. • The inability or unwillingness of tenants to pay their current rent or rent increases; and. • Declines in market rental rates.. Additionally, tenants at our retail properties face continual competition in attracting customers from various on-line and other competitors. Our competitors and those of our tenants could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space in our retail properties and on the rents we can charge or the concessions we can grant. Further, as new technologies emerge, the relationship among customers, retailers, and shopping centers are evolving on a rapid basis. If we are unable to adapt to such new technologies and relationships on a timely basis, our financial performance will be adversely impacted.. We cannot predict with certainty whether any of these conditions will occur or whether, and to what extent, they will have an adverse effect on our operations.. Risks Relating to Hotel Operations. We are subject to the business, financial and operating risks common to the hotel industry, any of which could reduce our revenues.. Revenue from our hotel segment accounted for 47 percent of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Business, financial and operating risks common to the hotel industry include:. • Changes in desirability of geographic regions and geographic concentration of our operations and customers;. • Decreases in the demand for hotel rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in business travel as a result of alternatives to in-person meetings (including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks) or due to general economic conditions;. • Decreased corporate or governmental travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions;. • Negative public perception of corporate travel-related activities;. • The effect of internet intermediaries and other new industry entrants on pricing and our increasing reliance on technology;. • The costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations in the U.S., including health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory actions;. • Changes in operating costs including, but not limited to, energy, water, labor costs (including the effect of labor shortages and unionization), food costs, workers' compensation and health-care related costs, insurance and unanticipated costs related to acts of nature and their consequences; and. • Cyclical over-building in the hotel industry.. External perception of the W Austin Hotel could negatively affect our results of operations.. Starwood manages hotel operations at the W Austin Hotel. Our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of Starwood and the quality of the W Austin Hotel and its services and we have to spend money periodically to keep the property well maintained, modernized and refurbished. The reputation of the W Austin Hotel may be negatively affected if Starwood fails to act responsibly or comply with regulatory requirements in a number of areas, such as safety and security, sustainability, responsible tourism, environmental management, human rights and support for the local communities where Starwood manages and/or owns properties. The considerable increase in the use of social media over recent years has greatly expanded the potential scope and scale, and increased the rapidity of the dissemination of negative publicity that could be generated by any adverse incident or failure on the part of hotel operators. An adverse incident involving associates. 11. Table of Contents. or guests and any media coverage resulting therefrom may cause a loss of consumer confidence in the Starwood brand which could negatively affect our results of operations.. Our revenues, profits or market share could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively in the hotel industry in Austin.. The hotel industry in Austin is highly competitive. The W Austin Hotel competes for customers with other hotel and resort properties in Austin, ranging from national and international hotel brands to independent, local and regional hotel operators. We compete based on a number of factors, including quality and consistency of rooms, restaurant and meeting facilities and services, attractiveness of location and price. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do, and if we are unable to successfully compete in these areas, our operating results could be adversely affected.. Historically, the Austin market has had a limited number of high-end hotel accommodations. However, hotel capacity is being expanded by other hotel operators in Austin, including several properties in close proximity to the W Austin Hotel in downtown Austin. This increase in competition as well as the anticipated opening of additional hotel rooms in downtown Austin during 2018, is expected to further impact future hotel revenues. As new rooms come on-line, increased competition could lead to an excess supply of hotel rooms in the Austin market, thereby causing Starwood to increase promotional incentives for hotel guests and/or reduce rates. Increased competition in the Austin market from new hotels or hotels that have recently undergone substantial renovation could have an adverse effect on occupancy, average daily rate and revenue per available room.. Additionally, some of our hotel rooms are booked through third-party internet travel intermediaries as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. In addition, travelers can book stays on websites that facilitate the short-term rental of homes and apartments from owners, thereby providing an alternative to hotel rooms. Increased internet bookings could have an adverse effect on occupancy, average daily rate and revenue per available room.. Risks Relating to Entertainment Businesses. We face intense competition in the live music industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current revenue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Revenue from our entertainment businesses accounted for 29 percent of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Our entertainment businesses compete in a highly competitive industry, and we may not be able to maintain or increase our current revenue as a result of such competition. The live music industry competes with other forms of entertainment for consumers' discretionary spending and within this industry we compete with other venues to book artists. Our competitors compete with us for key employees who have relationships with popular music artists and that have a history of being able to book such artists for concerts and tours. These competitors may engage in more extensive development efforts, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers to existing and potential artists. Our competitors may develop services, advertising options or music venues that are equal or superior to those we provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than we achieve. It is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share.. Other variables related to our entertainment businesses that could adversely affect our financial performance by, among other things, leading to decreases in overall revenue, the number of sponsors, event attendance, ticket prices and fees or profit margins include:. • An increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower sponsorships as we attempt to retain advertisers or which may cause us to lose advertisers to our competitors offering better programs that we are unable or unwilling to match;. • Unfavorable fluctuations in operating costs, which we may be unwilling or unable to pass through to our customers via ticket prices;. • Competitors' offerings that may include more favorable terms than we do in order to obtain events for the venues they operate;. 12. Table of Contents. • Technological changes and innovations that we are unable to adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive entertainment alternatives than we or other live entertainment providers currently offer, which may lead to a reduction in attendance at live events, a loss of ticket sales or lower ticket fees;. • Other entertainment options available to our audiences that we do not offer;. • General economic conditions which could cause our consumers to reduce discretionary spending;. • Unfavorable changes in labor conditions which may require us to spend more to retain and attract key employees;. • Interruptions in our ticketing systems and infrastructures and data loss or other breaches of our network security; and. • Changes in consumer preferences.. Additionally, our entertainment operations are seasonal. The results of operations from our entertainment segment vary from quarter to quarter and year to year, and the financial performance in certain quarters or years may not be indicative of, or comparable to, our financial performance in subsequent quarters or years.. Personal injuries and accidents may occur in connection with our live music events, which could subject us to personal injury or other claims and increase our expenses, as well as reduce attendance at our live music events, causing a decrease in our revenue.. There are inherent risks involved with producing live music events. As a result, personal injuries and accidents have, and may, occur from time to time, which could subject us to claims and liabilities for personal injuries. Incidents in connection with our live music events at ACL Live or festival sites that we rent through our joint ventures could also result in claims or reduce attendance at our events, which could cause a decrease in our revenue or reduce our operating income. We maintain insurance policies that provide coverage for personal injuries sustained by persons at our venues or events or accidents in the ordinary course of business, and there can be no assurance that such insurance will be adequate at all times and in all circumstances.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Shares of Our Common Stock. Our common stock is thinly traded; therefore, our stock price may fluctuate more than the stock market as a whole.. As a result of the thin trading market for shares of our common stock, our stock price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole or the stock prices of similar companies. Without a larger public float, shares of our common stock will be less liquid than the shares of common stock of companies with broader public ownership, and as a result, the trading prices for shares of our common stock may be more volatile. Among other things, trading of a relatively small volume of shares of our common stock may have a greater effect on the trading price than would be the case if our public float were larger."
