[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in the documents incorporated by reference herein before making an investment decision. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could cause you to suffer a partial or complete loss of your investment. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially harm our business and operations. See \"Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Related to Extensive Regulation of Our Business. If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could face significant monetary liabilities, fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students.. As a provider of higher education, we are subject to extensive regulation on both the federal and state levels. In particular, the Higher Education Act and related regulations subject Strayer University and all other higher education institutions that participate in the various Title IV programs to significant regulatory scrutiny.. The Higher Education Act mandates specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following components of the higher education regulatory triad: (1) the federal government through the Department of Education; (2) the accrediting agencies recognized by the Secretary of Education; and (3) state education regulatory bodies. In addition, other federal agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Federal Trade Commission, and various state agencies and state attorneys general enforce consumer protection laws applicable to post-secondary educational institutions.. The regulations, standards, and policies of these regulatory agencies frequently change, and changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations, standards, or policies could have a material adverse effect on our accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, receipt of funds under Title IV programs, or costs of doing business.. Title IV requirements are enforced by the Department of Education and, in some instances, by private plaintiffs. If we are found not to be in compliance with these laws, regulations, standards, or policies, we could lose our access to Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Findings of noncompliance also could result in our being required to pay monetary damages, or being subjected to fines, penalties, injunctions, restrictions on our access to Title IV program funds, or other censure that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our failure to comply with the Department of Education's gainful employment regulations could result in heightened disclosure requirements and loss of Title IV eligibility.. To be eligible for Title IV funding, academic programs offered by proprietary institutions of higher education must prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. On October 31, 2014, the Department of Education published the final regulations on gainful employment, which, with the exception of certain disclosure requirements, generally became effective July 1, 2015. The regulations include two debt-to-earnings measures, consisting of an annual income rate and a discretionary income rate. The annual income rate measures student debt in relation to earnings, and the discretionary income rate measures student debt in relation to discretionary income. A program passes if the program's graduates:. 33. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tHave an annual income rate that does not exceed 8%; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tHave a discretionary income rate that does not exceed 20%.. A program that does not pass either of the debt-to-earnings metrics, and that has an annual income rate between 8% and 12%, or a discretionary income rate between 20% and 30%, is considered to be in a warning zone. A program fails if the program's graduates have an annual income rate of 12% or greater and a discretionary income rate of 30% or greater. A program would become Title IV-ineligible for three years if it failed both metrics for two out of three consecutive years, or fails to pass at least one metric for four consecutive award years. The regulations provide a means by which an institution may challenge the Department of Education's calculation of any of the debt metrics prior to loss of Title IV eligibility.. The requirements associated with the gainful employment regulations may substantially increase our administrative burdens and could affect our program offerings, student enrollment, persistence, and retention. Further, although the regulations provide opportunities for an institution to correct any potential deficiencies in a program prior to the loss of Title IV eligibility, the continuing eligibility of our academic programs will be affected by factors beyond management's control, such as changes in our graduates' employment and income levels, changes in student borrowing levels, increases in interest rates, and various other factors. Even if we were able to correct any deficiency in the gainful employment metrics in a timely manner, the disclosure requirements associated with a program's failure to meet at least one metric may adversely affect student enrollments in that program and may adversely affect the reputation of our institution.. On June 16, 2017, the Department of Education announced that it would convene a negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations to revise the gainful employment regulations. The negotiated rulemaking committee held meetings in December 2017 and February 2018 and is scheduled to meet again in March 2018. We cannot predict what regulations will be proposed or ultimately adopted.. Congressional examination of for-profit post-secondary education could lead to legislation or other governmental action that may negatively affect the industry.. Since 2010, Congress has increased its focus on for-profit higher education institutions, including regarding participation in Title IV programs and oversight by the Department of Defense of tuition assistance and by the Veterans Administration of veterans education benefits for military service members and veterans, respectively, attending for-profit colleges. The Senate HELP Committee and other congressional committees have held hearings into, among other things, the proprietary education sector and its participation in Title IV programs, the standards and procedures of accrediting agencies, credit hours and program length, the portion of federal student financial aid going to proprietary institutions, and the receipt of veterans and military education benefits by students enrolled at proprietary institutions. Strayer University has cooperated with these inquiries. A number of legislators have variously requested the Government Accountability Office to review and make recommendations regarding, among other things, recruitment practices, educational quality, student outcomes, the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud, and abuse in Title IV programs, and the percentage of proprietary institutions' revenue coming from Title IV and other federal funding sources.. This activity may result in legislation, further rulemaking affecting participation in Title IV programs, and other governmental actions. In addition, concerns generated by congressional activity may adversely affect enrollment in, and revenues of for-profit educational institutions. Limitations on the amount of federal student financial aid for which our students are eligible under Title IV could materially and adversely affect our business.. We are dependent on the renewal and maintenance of Title IV programs.. The Higher Education Act, which is the law authorizing Title IV programs, is subject to periodic reauthorization. Congress completed the most recent reauthorization through multiple pieces of legislation and may reauthorize the HEA in a piecemeal manner in the future. Additionally, Congress determines the funding level for each Title IV program on an annual basis. Any action by Congress that significantly reduces funding for Title IV programs or the ability of our school or students to participate in these programs could materially harm our business. A reduction in government. 34. Table of Contents. funding levels could lead to lower enrollments at our school and require us to arrange for alternative sources of financial aid for our students. Lower student enrollments or our inability to arrange such alternative sources of funding could adversely affect our business.. We are subject to compliance reviews, which, if they resulted in a material finding of noncompliance, could affect our ability to participate in Title IV programs.. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we are subject to compliance reviews and claims of noncompliance and related lawsuits by government agencies, accrediting agencies, and third parties, including claims brought by third parties on behalf of the federal government. For example, the Department of Education regularly conducts program reviews of educational institutions that are participating in Title IV programs, and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Education regularly conducts audits and investigations of such institutions. The Department of Education could limit, suspend, or terminate our participation in Title IV programs or impose other penalties such as requiring us to make refunds, pay liabilities, or pay an administrative fine upon a material finding of noncompliance.. In 2014, the Department of Education conducted four campus-based program reviews of Strayer University locations in three states and the District of Columbia.  The reviews covered federal financial aid years 2012-2013 and 2013-2014, and two of the reviews also covered compliance with the Clery Act, the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act, and regulations related thereto. For three of the program reviews, we received correspondence from the Department closing the program reviews with no further action required by us. For the other program review, the University received a Final Program Review Determination Letter closing the review and identifying a payment of less than $500 due to the Department of Education based on an underpayment on a return to Title IV calculation. The University remitted payment, and received a letter from the Department on May 26, 2015, indicating that no further action was required and that the matter was closed.. On October 11, 2017, the Department and Strayer University executed a new Program Participation Agreement, approving Strayer University's continued participation in Title IV programs with full certification through June 30, 2021.. If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the Department of Education, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs.. The loss of Strayer University's accreditation by Middle States or Middle States' loss of recognition by the Department of Education would render Strayer University ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, an adverse action by Middle States other than loss of accreditation, such as issuance of a warning, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In November 2015, the Department of Education announced a set of executive actions and legislative proposals to increase transparency and rigor in accreditation. On January 20, 2016, the Department of Education issued additional recommendations related to accreditation.. The Higher Education Act charges the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity (\"NACIQI\") with recommending to the Secretary of Education which accrediting or state approval agencies should be recognized as reliable authorities for judging the quality of post-secondary institutions and programs. In June 2017, NACIQI renewed its recognition of Middle States for six months and required Middle States to demonstrate compliance with certain requirements. NACIQI reviewed Middle States at its February 2018 meeting and extended its recognition for five years. On September 22, 2016, the Department of Education rescinded its recognition of the Accreditation Council of Independent Colleges and Schools. Increased scrutiny of accreditors by the Secretary of Education in connection with the Department of Education's recognition process may result in increased scrutiny of institutions by accreditors or have other adverse consequences.. 35. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain any of our state authorizations, we would lose our ability to operate in that state and to participate in Title IV programs there.. Each Strayer University campus is authorized to operate and to grant degrees, diplomas, or certificates by the applicable education agency or agencies of the state where the campus is located. Such state authorization is required for students at the campus to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of state authorization would, among other things, render Strayer University ineligible to participate in Title IV programs at least at those state campus locations, limit Strayer University's ability to operate in that state and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Effective July 1, 2011, Department of Education regulations provide that an institution is considered legally authorized by a state if the state has a process to review and appropriately act on complaints concerning the institution, including enforcing applicable state laws, and the institution complies with any applicable state approval or licensure requirements consistent with the new rules. If a state in which Strayer has a physical campus fails to comply in the future with the provisions of the new rule or fails to provide the University with legal authorization, it could limit Strayer University's ability to operate in that state and have a material adverse effect on our operations.. On December 19, 2016, the Department of Education published final regulations addressing, among other issues, state authorization of programs offered through distance education. The final regulations, which are effective July 1, 2018, require an institution offering distance education programs to be authorized by each state in which the institution enrolls students, if such authorization is required by the state, in order to award Title IV aid to such students. An institution could obtain such authorization directly from the state or through a state authorization reciprocity agreement. On January 30, 2017, the Department of Education announced that it intends to take unspecified regulatory actions regarding certain regulations that have been published but have not yet taken effect, including regulations related to state authorization of distance education. As of February 2018, the Department had taken no action with respect to the state authorization of distance education regulations. If one of our institutions fails to obtain or maintain required state authorization to provide post-secondary distance education in a specific state, the institution could lose its ability to award Title IV aid to online students in that state and could lose its ability to provide distance education in that state.. Strayer University participates in the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (\"SARA\"), which allows the University to enroll students in distance education programs in each SARA member state. Strayer University applies separately to non-SARA member states for authorization to enroll students, if such authorization is required by the state. If Strayer University failed to comply with the requirements to participate in SARA or state licensing or authorization requirements to provide distance education in a non-SARA state, the University could lose its ability to participate in SARA or may be subject to the loss of state licensure or authorization to provide distance education in that non-SARA state, respectively.. If we fail to obtain recertification by the Department of Education when required, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs.. An institution generally must seek recertification from the Department of Education at least every six years and possibly more frequently depending on various factors, such as whether it is provisionally certified. The Department of Education may also review an institution's continued eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs, or scope of eligibility and certification, in the event the institution undergoes a change in ownership resulting in a change of control or expands its activities in certain ways, such as the addition of certain types of new programs, or, in certain cases, changes to the academic credentials that it offers. In certain circumstances, the Department of Education must provisionally certify an institution. The Department of Education may withdraw our certification if it determines that we are not fulfilling material requirements for continued participation in Title IV programs. If the Department of Education does not renew, or withdraws our certification to participate in Title IV programs, our students would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Each institution participating in Title IV programs must enter into a Program Participation Agreement with the Department of Education. Under the agreement, the institution agrees to follow the Department of Education's rules and regulations governing Title IV programs. On October 11, 2017, the Department and Strayer University executed a new. 36. Table of Contents. Program Participation Agreement, approving Strayer University's continued participation in Title IV programs with full certification through June 30, 2021.. A failure to demonstrate financial responsibility or administrative capability may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, Strayer University must comply with specific standards and procedures set forth in the Higher Education Act and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education, including, among other things, certain standards of financial responsibility and administrative capability. If we fail to demonstrate financial responsibility or maintain administrative capability under the Department of Education's regulations, we could lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or have that eligibility adversely conditioned, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Student loan defaults could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. In general, under the Higher Education Act, an educational institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if, for three consecutive federal fiscal years, 30% or more of its students who were required to begin repaying their student loans in the relevant federal fiscal year default on their payment by the end of the second federal fiscal year following that fiscal year. Institutions with a cohort default rate equal to or greater than 15% for any of the three most recent fiscal years for which data are available are subject to a 30-day delayed disbursement period for first-year, first-time borrowers. While its cohort default rate for 2014 was 13.2%, Strayer University voluntarily delays disbursement of Direct Loans in this manner. In addition, an institution may lose its eligibility to participate in some or all Title IV programs if its default rate for a federal fiscal year was greater than 40%.. If we lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs because of high student loan default rates, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. Strayer University's three-year cohort default rates for federal fiscal years 2012, 2013 and 2014, were 11.6%, 11.3%, and 13.2%, respectively. The average official cohort default rates for proprietary institutions nationally were 15.8%, 15.0%, and 15.5% for federal fiscal years 2012, 2013, and 2014, respectively.. Strayer University could lose its eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs or be provisionally certified with respect to such participation if the percentage of our revenues derived from those programs were too high.. A proprietary institution may lose its eligibility to participate in the federal Title IV student financial aid program if it derives more than 90% of its revenues, on a cash basis, from Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years. A proprietary institution of higher education that violates the 90/10 Rule for any fiscal year will be placed on provisional status for up to two fiscal years. Using the formula specified in the Higher Education Act, we derived approximately 75% of our cash-basis revenues from these programs in 2016.  Our computation for 2017 has not yet been finalized and audited; however, we believe we will remain in compliance with the 90/10 Rule requirement. Certain members of Congress have proposed to revise the 90/10 Rule to count tuition assistance provided by the Department of Defense and veterans education benefits, along with Title IV revenue, toward the 90% limit and to reduce the limit to 85% of total revenue. Such proposals could make it difficult for us to comply with the 90/10 rule. If we were to violate the 90/10 Rule, the loss of eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our failure to comply with the Department of Education's incentive compensation rules could result in sanctions and other liability.. If we pay a bonus, commission, or other incentive payment in violation of applicable Department of Education rules or if the Department of Education or other third parties interpret our compensation practices as such, we could be subject to sanctions or other liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 37. Table of Contents. Our failure to comply with the Department of Education's misrepresentation rules could result in sanctions and other liability.. The Higher Education Act prohibits an institution that participates in Title IV programs from engaging in \"substantial misrepresentation\" of the nature of its educational program, its financial charges, or the employability of its graduates. The Department of Education's Program Integrity Regulations, which took effect July 1, 2011, interpret this provision to prohibit any statement on those topics made by the institution or a third party that provides educational programs, marketing, advertising, recruiting, or admissions services to the institution that has the likelihood or tendency to confuse. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia held on June 5, 2012, that the term \"substantial misrepresentation\" could not include true, nondeceitful statements that are merely confusing. Final regulations to expand the definition of misrepresentation to include \"any statement that has the likelihood or tendency to mislead under the circumstances\" were scheduled to take effect July 1, 2017. The definition also would have been expanded to include \"any statement that omits information in such a way as to make the statement false, erroneous, or misleading.\" On June 16, 2017, the Department of Education announced that it had decided to postpone indefinitely the implementation of certain provisions, including the revised definition. The Department has delayed implementation until July 1, 2019.. In the event of substantial misrepresentation, the Department of Education may revoke an institution's program participation agreement, limit the institution's participation in Title IV programs, deny applications from the institution, such as to add new programs or locations, initiate proceedings to fine the institution or limit, suspend, or terminate its eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. If the Department of Education or other third parties interpret statements made by us or on our behalf to be in violation of the new regulations, we could be subject to sanctions and other liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our failure to comply with the Department of Education's credit hour rule could result in sanctions and other liability.. Effective July 1, 2011, Title IV regulations define the term \"credit hour\" and require accrediting agencies and state authorization agencies to review the reliability and accuracy of an institution's credit hour assignments. If an accreditor does not comply with this requirement, its recognition by the Department of Education could be jeopardized. If an accreditor identifies systematic or significant noncompliance in one or more of an institution's programs, the accreditor must notify the Secretary of Education. If the Department of Education determines that an institution is out of compliance with the credit hour definition, the Department of Education could impose liabilities or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our failure to comply with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act or Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 could result in sanctions and other liability.. Strayer University must comply with the campus safety and security reporting requirements as well as other requirements in the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (\"Clery Act\"), including changes made to the Clery Act by the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. On October 20, 2014, the Department of Education promulgated final regulations implementing amendments to the Clery Act. In addition, the Department of Education has interpreted Title IX to categorize sexual violence as a form of prohibited sex discrimination and to require institutions to follow certain disciplinary procedures with respect to such offenses. Failure to comply with the Clery Act or Title IX requirements or regulations thereunder could result in action by the Department of Education to require corrective action, fine the University, or limit or suspend its participation in Title IV programs, which could lead to litigation and could harm the University's reputation.. We are subject to sanctions if we fail to calculate accurately and make timely payment of refunds of Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program.. The Higher Education Act and Department of Education regulations require us to calculate refunds of unearned Title IV program funds disbursed to students who withdraw from their educational program before completing it. If refunds are not properly calculated or timely paid, we may be required to post a letter of credit with the Department of. 38. Table of Contents. Education or be subject to sanctions or other adverse actions by the Department of Education, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Investigations, legislative and regulatory developments, and general credit market conditions related to the student loan industry may result in fewer lenders and loan products and increased regulatory burdens and costs.. The Higher Education Act regulates relationships between lenders to students and post-secondary education institutions. In 2009, the Department of Education promulgated regulations that address these relationships, and state legislators have also passed or may be considering legislation related to relationships between lenders and institutions. In addition, new procedures introduced and recommendations made by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau create uncertainty about whether Congress will impose new burdens on private student lenders. These developments, as well as legislative and regulatory changes, such as those relating to gainful employment and repayment rates, creating uncertainty in the industry and general credit market conditions, may cause some lenders to decide not to provide certain loan products and may impose increased administrative and regulatory costs. Such actions could reduce demand for, and/or availability of private education loans, decrease Strayer University's non-Title IV revenue, and thereby increase Strayer University's 90/10 ratio, and have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on one or more third parties for software and services necessary to administer our participation in Title IV programs and failure of such a third party to provide compliant software and services, or by us in our use of the software, could cause us to lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs.. Because Strayer University is jointly and severally liable to the Department of Education for the actions of third-party Title IV processing software providers, failure of such providers to comply with applicable regulations could have a material adverse effect on Strayer University, including loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. If any of the third-party providers discontinue providing software and services to us, we may not be able to replace them in a timely, cost-efficient, or effective manner, or at all, and we could lose our ability to comply with the requirements of Title IV programs, which could adversely affect our enrollment, revenues, and results of operations.. Our business could be harmed if we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program.. We collected the majority of our fiscal year 2017 total consolidated net revenue from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, principally from federal student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program. Any processing disruptions by the Department of Education may affect our students' ability to obtain student loans on a timely basis. If we experience a disruption in our ability to process student loans through the Federal Direct Loan Program, either because of administrative challenges on our part or the inability of the Department of Education to process the volume of direct loans on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely and materially affected.. Our business could be harmed if Congress makes changes to the availability of Title IV funds.. We collected the majority of our fiscal year 2017 total consolidated net revenue from receipt of Title IV financial aid program funds, principally from federal student loans under the Federal Direct Loan Program. Changes in the availability of these funds or a reduction in the amount of funds disbursed may have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Congress eliminated further federal direct subsidized loans for graduate and professional students as of July 1, 2012. On August 9, 2013, Congress passed legislation that ties interest rates on Title IV loans to the rate paid on U.S. Treasury bonds. Interest rates are set every July 1st for loans taken out from July 1st to June 30th of the following year. In July 2012, Congress reduced eligibility for Pell Grants from 18 semesters to 12 semesters. To date, these changes have not had a material impact on our business, but future changes in the availability of Title IV funds could impact students' ability to fund their education and thus may have a material adverse effect on our enrollment, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 39. Table of Contents. Enforcement of laws related to the accessibility of technology continues to evolve, which could result in increased information technology development costs and compliance risks.. Strayer University's online education programs are made available to students through personal computers and other technological devices. For each of these programs, the curriculum makes use of a combination of graphics, pictures, videos, animations, sounds, and interactive content. Federal agencies, including the Department of Education and the Department of Justice, have considered or are considering how electronic and information technology should be made accessible to persons with disabilities. For example, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or Section 504, prohibits discrimination against a person with a disability by any organization that receives federal financial assistance. The Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA, prohibits discrimination based on disability in several areas, including public accommodations. In 2010, the Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights, which enforces Section 504, together with the Department of Justice, asserted that requiring the use of technology in a classroom environment when such technology is inaccessible to individuals with disabilities violates Section 504, unless those individuals are provided accommodations or modifications that permit them to receive all the educational benefits provided by the technology in an equally effective and integrated manner. If Strayer University is found to have violated Section 504, it may be required to modify existing content and functionality of its online classroom or other uses of technology, including through adoption of specific technical standards. As a result of such enforcement action, or as a result of new laws and regulations that require greater accessibility, Strayer University may have to modify its online classrooms and other uses of technology to satisfy applicable requirements, which could require substantial financial investment. As with all nondiscrimination laws that apply to recipients of federal financial assistance, an institution may lose access to federal financial assistance if it does not comply with Section 504 requirements. In addition, private parties may file or threaten to file lawsuits alleging failure to comply with laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of disability, such as the ADA, and defending against such actions may require Strayer University to incur costs to modify its online classrooms and other uses of technology and costs of litigation.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our enrollment rate is uncertain, and we may not be able to assess our future enrollments effectively.. Our ability to grow enrollment depends on a number of factors, including macroeconomic factors like unemployment and the resulting lower confidence in job prospects, and many of the regulatory risks discussed above. Our enrollment in 2018 will be affected by legislative uncertainty, regulatory activity, and macroeconomic conditions. It is likely that legislative, regulatory, and economic uncertainties will continue for the foreseeable future, and thus it is difficult to assess our long-term growth prospects. Since 2013, we have selectively closed physical locations to better align our resources with the increasing preference of our current students for online course delivery. Although we plan to selectively invest in new campus facilities, and to pursue other growth opportunities in the future, there can be no assurance as to what our growth rate will be or as to the steps we may need to take to adapt to the changing regulatory, legislative, and economic conditions.. Adding new locations, programs, and services is dependent on our forecast of the demand for those locations, programs, and services and on regulatory approvals.. Adding new locations, programs, and services require us to expend significant resources, including making human capital and financial capital investments, incurring marketing expenses, and reallocating other resources. To open a new location, we are required to obtain appropriate federal, state, and accrediting agency approvals, which may be conditioned or delayed in a manner that could significantly affect our growth plans. We cannot assure investors that we will open new locations or add new programs or services in the future.. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel.. Our success to date has been, and our continuing success will be, substantially dependent upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified executive officers, faculty and administrators, and other key personnel. If we cease to employ any of these integral personnel or fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could suffer.. 40. Table of Contents. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of existing academic programs and develop new programs in a cost-effective manner and on a timely basis.. Our success depends in part on our ability to update and expand the content of our academic programs, develop new programs in a cost-effective manner, and meet students' needs in a timely manner. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological and other skills. The update and expansion of our existing programs and the development of new programs may not be received favorably by students, prospective employers, or the online education market. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, our business may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to introduce these new programs as quickly as students require due to regulatory constraints or as quickly as our competitors introduce competing new programs.. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop awareness of the academic programs we offer among working adult students.. The continued development of awareness of the academic programs we offer among working adult students is critical to the continued acceptance and growth of our programs. If we are unable to continue to develop awareness of the programs we offer, this could limit our enrollments and negatively impact our business. The following are some of the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing our programs:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe emergence of more successful competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomer dissatisfaction with our services and programs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperformance problems with our online systems; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour failure to maintain or expand our brand or other factors related to our marketing.. Congressional and other governmental activities could damage the reputation of Strayer University and limit our ability to attract and retain students.. In the last eight years, Congress increased its focus on proprietary educational institutions, including administration of Title IV programs, military assistance programs, veterans education benefits, and other federal programs. The Department of Education indicated to Congress that it intended to increase its regulation of and attention to proprietary educational institutions, and the Government Accountability Office released several reports of investigations into proprietary educational institutions. In 2014, the Department of Education announced the creation of an interagency task force to oversee proprietary educational institutions by coordinating the activities of several agencies and promote information sharing among the agencies, which include the Department of Justice, the VA, the CFPB, the FTC, and the SEC, as well as state attorneys general. These and other governmental activities, including new regulations on program integrity and gainful employment, even if resulting in no adverse findings or actions against Strayer University, singly or cumulatively could affect public perception of proprietary higher education, damage the reputation of Strayer University, and limit our ability to attract and retain students.. We face strong competition in the post-secondary education market.. Post-secondary education in the United States is highly competitive. We compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges, other for-profit schools, and alternatives to higher education, such as employment and military service. Public colleges may offer programs similar to those of Strayer University at a lower tuition level as a result of government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial sources not available to proprietary institutions. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Congress, the Department of Education, and other agencies have required increasing disclosure of information to consumers. While we believe that Strayer University provides valuable education to its students, we may not always accurately predict the drivers of a student or potential students' decisions to choose among the range of educational and other options available to them. This strong competition could adversely affect our business.. 41. Table of Contents. Strayer relies on exclusive proprietary rights and intellectual property, and competitors may attempt to duplicate our programs and methods.. Third parties may attempt to develop competing programs or duplicate or copy aspects of our curriculum, online library, quality management, and other proprietary content. Any such attempt, if successful, could adversely affect our business. In the ordinary course of business, we develop intellectual property of many kinds that is or will be the subject of copyright, trademark, service mark, patent, trade secret, or other protections. Such intellectual property includes, but is not limited to, courseware materials for classes taught online and on-ground, and business know-how and internal processes and procedures developed to respond to the requirements of its various education regulatory agencies.. Seasonal and other fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This fluctuation may result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue. Historically, our quarterly revenues and income have been lowest in the third quarter (July through September) because fewer students are enrolled during the summer months. We also incur significant expenses in the third quarter in preparing for our peak enrollment in the fourth quarter (October through December), including investing in online and campus infrastructure necessary to support increased usage. These investments result in fluctuations in our operating results which could result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the online education market is a rapidly evolving market, and we may not be able to accurately forecast future enrollment growth and revenues.. Regulatory requirements may make it more difficult to acquire us.. A change in ownership resulting in a change of control of Strayer University would trigger a requirement for recertification of Strayer University by the Department of Education for purposes of participation in federal student financial aid programs, a review of Strayer University's accreditation by Middle States, and reauthorization of Strayer University by certain state licensing and other regulatory agencies. If we underwent a change of control that required approval by any state authority, Middle States, or any federal agency, and any required regulatory approval were significantly delayed, limited, or denied, there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to offer certain educational programs, award certain degrees, diplomas, or certificates, operate one or more of our locations, admit certain students or participate in Title IV programs, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. These factors may discourage takeover attempts.. Capacity constraints or system disruptions to Strayer University's computer networks could damage the reputation of Strayer University and limit our ability to attract and retain students.. The performance and reliability of Strayer University's computer networks, especially the online educational platform, is critical to our reputation and ability to attract and retain students. Any system error or failure, or a sudden and significant increase in traffic, could result in the unavailability of Strayer University's computer networks. We cannot assure you that Strayer University, including its online educational platform, will be able to expand its program infrastructure on a timely basis sufficient to meet demand for its programs. Strayer University's computer systems and operations could be vulnerable to interruption or malfunction due to events beyond its control, including natural disasters and telecommunications failures. Any interruption to Strayer University's computer systems or operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain students.. Strayer University's computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt operations and require it to expend significant resources.. Strayer University's computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, and other security problems. A user who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. As a result, Strayer University may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches.. 42. Table of Contents. The personal information that we collect is subject to privacy and data security laws and may be vulnerable to breach, theft, or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations.. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subject us to risks and costs that could harm our business. We collect, use, and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including social security numbers, tax return information, personal and family financial data, and credit card numbers. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal information is held and managed by certain vendors. Although we use security and business controls to limit access to and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. In addition, errors in the storage, use, or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to various U.S. state and federal legislative and regulatory burdens that could, among other things, require notification of data breaches and restrict our use of personal information. The risk of hacking and cyber-attacks has increased, as has the sophistication of such attacks, including email phishing schemes targeting employees to give up their credentials. We cannot assure you that a breach, loss, or theft of personal information will not occur. A breach, theft, or loss of personal information regarding our students and their families or our employees that is held by us or our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and results of operations and result in liability under U.S. state and federal privacy statutes and legal actions by state authorities and private litigants, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, certain of our operations may involve the collection of personal information from individuals outside the U.S., which may render us subject to global privacy and data security laws. For example, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which becomes enforceable May 25, 2018, contains a number of requirements that are different from or exceed those in U.S. state and federal privacy and data security laws. The GDPR may apply to certain of our operations. Were it to apply and if we were out of compliance, there is the potential for administrative, civil, or criminal liability with significant monetary penalties as well as reputational harm to Strayer and its employees.. Failure to maintain adequate process to prevent and detect fraudulent activity related to student online enrollment or financial aid could adversely impact our operations.. Our online environment is susceptible to an increased risk of fraudulent activity by outside parties with respect to the student online learning platform and student financial aid programs. While we have been able to detect past incidents of fraudulent activity, which have been isolated, and we have increased our internal capabilities to prevent and detect possible fraudulent activity, we cannot be certain that our systems and processes will continue to be adequate with increasingly sophisticated external fraud schemes. The Department of Education requires institutions that participate in Title IV programs to refer to the Office of the Inspector General any credible information related to fraudulent activity. If we do not maintain adequate systems to prevent and deter such fraudulent activity, the Department of Education may find a lack of \"administrative capability\" and could limit our access to Title IV funding.. Strayer University, with its online programs, operates in a highly competitive market with rapid technological changes and it may not compete successfully.. Online education is a highly fragmented and competitive market that is subject to rapid technological change. Competitors vary in size and organization from traditional colleges and universities, many of which have some form of online education programs, to for-profit schools, corporate universities, and software companies providing online education and training software. We expect the online education and training market to be subject to rapid changes in technologies. Strayer University's success will depend on its ability to adapt to these changing technologies.. Changes in future business conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our earnings.. Although we currently have excess fair value of our investments in JWMI and NYCDA over their respective carrying values, goodwill accounts for approximately $21 million of our total assets. Operating performance of these investments, or market-based inputs to the calculations in our goodwill impairment test, could change significantly from our current assumptions. We continue to monitor the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and other long-. 43. Table of Contents. lived assets. Significant write-offs of goodwill or other long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or results of operations.. Risks Related to our Pending Merger with Capella Education Company. The market price for the combined company shares following the consummation of our merger with Capella may be affected by factors different from or in addition to those that historically have affected or currently affect shares of our common stock.. Upon consummation of our merger with Capella, our stockholders will hold combined company shares. Although Capella operates in the same industry that we do, Capella's businesses differ from ours, and accordingly the results of operations of the combined company will be affected by some factors that are different from or in addition to those currently affecting our results of operations and those currently affecting Capella's results of operations. For a discussion of Capella's businesses, and some important factors to consider in connection with Capella's businesses, see the documents previously filed with the SEC by Capella (File No. 001-33140), incorporated by reference into the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC by us on December 8, 2017, and referred to under the sections entitled \"Incorporation of Certain Documents by Reference\" and \"Where You Can Find More Information\". The joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC by us on December 8, 2017 does not constitute, and the documents filed with the SEC by Capella do not constitute, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are not incorporated by reference herein.. The merger may not be consummated unless important conditions are satisfied or waived.. The merger agreement contains a number of conditions that must be satisfied or waived (to the extent permitted by applicable law) to consummate the merger. Those conditions include, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tapproval for listing on NASDAQ of the combined company shares issuable in connection with the merger, subject to official notice of issuance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treceipt of the requisite regulatory and antitrust approvals, including approvals of certain education regulatory agencies and accrediting bodies; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe absence of any law or order prohibiting the merger.. These conditions to the consummation of the merger may not be satisfied or waived (to the extent permitted by applicable law) and, as a result, the merger may not be consummated at the time expected, or at all. In addition, either Strayer or Capella may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances. For additional information, see the sections entitled \"The Merger Agreement - Conditions to Consummation of the Merger\" and \"The Merger Agreement - Termination of the Merger Agreement\" in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC by us on December 8, 2017.. The merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential acquirer of us.. The \"no-shop\" provisions contained in the merger agreement could discourage a potential third-party acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant portion of Strayer from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the market value proposed to be realized in the merger. A potential third-party acquirer maintaining interest in the face of these provisions might propose to pay a lower price to our stockholders than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the $25 million termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances.. If the merger agreement is terminated and we seek another business combination, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with another party on terms comparable to, or better than, the terms of our pending merger with Capella.. 44. Table of Contents. The pendency of the merger could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Uncertainty about the effect of our pending merger with Capella on employees, suppliers, students and employers of students may have an adverse effect on us. Some students and others who deal with us may seek to change existing relationships with us or delay decisions to continue or expand their relationships with us. Current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles, which may affect our ability to attract, retain,  and motivate key personnel. If employees depart because of issues related to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the business, the combined company following the merger could face disruptions in its operations, loss of existing students, loss of key information, expertise or know-how, and unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs. In addition, the loss of key personnel could diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger.. In addition, the merger agreement restricts us from taking certain actions until the effective time without the consent of Capella, including, among others: the payment of dividends; the issuance of equity (including incentive equity awards); certain increases to employee compensation and benefits; capital expenditures; the incurrence of indebtedness; acquisitions and divestitures; and the entry into or amending certain material contracts. We are required to conduct business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice. The restrictive covenants, which are subject to various specific exceptions, may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the consummation of the merger. For a description of the restrictive covenants applicable to us, see the section entitled \"The Merger Agreement - Conduct of Business Pending the Merger\" in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC by us on December 8, 2017.. Litigation filed or that may be filed could prevent or delay the consummation of the pending merger.. On November 30, 2017, a Capella shareholder (the \"Plaintiff\") filed a putative class action lawsuit against Capella, Strayer, Sarg Sub Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Strayer, and the members of the Capella board of directors, challenging the disclosures made in connection with the pending merger. The lawsuit sought to enjoin the merger, recover damages upon consummation of the merger, attorney's fees, and other relief. For additional information, see the description set forth in Item 3 below. On January 29, 2018, the Plaintiff filed a notice of voluntary dismissal, without prejudice.. Similar lawsuits and/or claims may be received by us, our board of directors, Sarg Sub Inc., Capella or Capella's board of directors in the future. The outcomes of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict and could delay or prevent our pending merger with Capella from becoming effective in a timely manner. One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no governmental authority has issued or entered any order after the date of the merger agreement having the effect of enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the merger. Potential lawsuits in the future may seek an order enjoining the consummation of the merger. Accordingly, if a future lawsuit is successful in obtaining an order enjoining the consummation of the merger, then such order may prevent the merger from being consummated, or from being consummated within the expected time frame, and could result in substantial costs to us including, but not limited to, costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Any such injunction or delay in the merger being completed may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our stockholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest in the combined company after the merger and will exercise less influence over management.. Our stockholders currently have the right to vote in the election of our board of directors and on other matters affecting us. Upon consummation of the merger, each Strayer stockholder will be a stockholder of the combined company with a percentage ownership of the combined company that is smaller than the stockholder's prior percentage ownership of Strayer. After consummation of the merger, Strayer stockholders are expected to own approximately 52% of the issued and outstanding combined company shares on a fully diluted basis. Because of this, Strayer stockholders will have less influence on the management and policies of the combined company than they now have on the management and policies of Strayer.. 45. Table of Contents. Failure to consummate the merger could negatively impact our future stock price, operations and financial results.. If the merger is not consummated for any reason, we may be subjected to a number of material risks, including the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta possible decline in the market price of our common stock to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be consummated and will be beneficial to the value of the business of the combined company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thaving to pay certain costs related to the pending merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisory, printing, and mailing fees, which must be paid regardless of whether the merger is consummated;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taddressing any loss of personnel and/or students that may have occurred since the announcement of the signing of the merger agreement, as a result of uncertainty regarding the employee or student relationship with the combined company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taddressing the consequences of operational decisions made since the signing of the merger agreement either because of restrictions on our operations imposed by the terms of the merger agreement, including decisions to delay or defer capital expenditures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treturning the focus of management and personnel to operating the Company on a stand-alone basis, without any of the benefits expected to have been provided by the consummation of the merger; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegative reactions from our stockholders, students, suppliers, and employees.. In addition to the above risks, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of up to $25 million to Capella, and in some cases reimburse Capella's expenses up to $8 million, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition.. If the merger is not consummated, we cannot assure our stockholders that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect the business, financial results, and stock price of the Company. Failure to consummate the merger could also materially adversely affect our stock price to the extent the current market price reflects a market premium based on the assumption that the merger will be consummated and will be beneficial to the value of the business of the combined company.. The pending merger may disrupt attention of our management from ongoing business operations.. We have expended, and expect to continue to expend, significant management resources to consummate the merger. The attention of our management may be diverted away from the day-to-day operations of our businesses, including implementing initiatives to improve performance and execution of existing business plans in an effort to consummate the merger. This diversion of management resources could disrupt our operations and may have an adverse effect on our businesses, financial conditions and results of operations or that of the combined company.. The consummation of the merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government and regulatory entities, which may impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us or could cause us to abandon the merger.. The governmental and regulatory agencies from which we will seek approvals have broad discretion in administering the applicable government regulations.. On November 22, 2017, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission granted early termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.. Regulatory approvals will be required in connection with the merger from certain education agencies. On February 27, 2018, the U.S. Department of Education completed its pre-acquisition review of the transaction without any material conditions, but additional closing conditions apply including approval by the Higher Learning Commission (the \"HLC\"). In addition, Strayer is notifying all of the education regulatory agencies that approve Strayer University of the merger.. 46. Table of Contents. Although it is not expected that this merger constitutes a change of control for Strayer University, it is possible that some of those agencies may require approval of the merger, or subject Strayer University to a review in connection with the merger.. There can be no assurance that all of the necessary educational agency regulatory approvals required to consummate the merger will be obtained and, if obtained, there can be no assurance as to the timing of any approvals, the ability to obtain the approvals on satisfactory terms, or that the conditions will not result in the abandonment of the merger. For additional information, see the sections entitled \"The Merger Agreement - Conditions to Consummation of the Merger,\" \"The Merger - Regulatory Approvals Required for the Merger,\" and \"The Merger Agreement - Conditions to Consummation of the Merger\" in the joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC by us on December 8, 2017.. The merger agreement may require us to accept conditions from certain regulators that could limit the combined company after the consummation of the merger without us having the right to refuse to consummate the merger on the basis of those regulatory conditions, except that for certain education regulators, we or Capella may refuse to consummate the merger if any such conditions individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect on the combined company following the consummation of the merger.. Any delay in the consummation of the merger for regulatory reasons could diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger or result in additional transaction costs. Any uncertainty over the ability to consummate the merger could make it more difficult for us to maintain or pursue particular business strategies. Conditions imposed by regulatory agencies in connection with their approval of the merger may restrict the combined company's ability to modify its operations or the combined company's ability to expend cash for other uses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on, or delay, the anticipated benefits of the merger.. The merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to the combined company's earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of the combined company shares.. Because shares of Strayer common stock will be issued in the merger, it is possible that, although we currently expect the merger to be accretive to earnings per share in 2019, excluding one-time charges, the merger may be dilutive to earnings per share, which could negatively affect the market price of combined company shares.. In connection with the consummation of the merger, we expect to issue approximately 10.5 million shares of Strayer common stock. The issuance of these new shares of Strayer common stock could have the effect of depressing the market price of shares of Strayer common stock (referred to as combined company shares as of the consummation of and following the merger) through dilution of earnings per share or otherwise.. In addition, future events and conditions could increase the dilution that is currently projected, including adverse changes in market conditions, additional transaction and integration related costs and other factors such as the failure to realize some or all of the benefits anticipated in the merger. Any dilution of, or delay in any accretion to, earnings per share could cause the price of the combined company shares to decline or grow at a reduced rate.. Risks Related to the Business of the Combined Company. Combining Strayer and Capella may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the combined company may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.. Strayer and Capella have operated and, until the consummation of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. The success of the merger will depend on, among other things, the combined company's ability to combine the businesses of Strayer and Capella in a manner that does not materially disrupt the existing student relationships of either Strayer or Capella or adversely affect current revenues and investments in future growth. Additionally, the combined company may not be able to successfully achieve the level of cost savings, revenue enhancements and synergies that it expects. If the combined company is not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.. 47. Table of Contents. In addition, the continued operation of two independent businesses within the combined company may be a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe diversion of management attention to integration matters;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in integrating functions, personnel, and systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting, and other policies, business cultures, and compensation structures between the two companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in assimilating employees and in attracting and retaining key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges in keeping existing students and enrolling new students;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in maintaining consistency in educational programs across platforms;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchallenges related to maintaining accreditations with multiple accreditors and working with multiple oversight bodies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from the combination;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in managing multiple brands under a significantly larger and more complex company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties operating Strayer University and Capella University as separate legal entities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcontingent liabilities that are larger than expected; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences, and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the merger.. Many of these factors are outside of our control and will be outside the control of the combined company, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company. In addition, even if the businesses of Strayer and Capella are operated successfully within the combined company, the full anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized, including the expected synergies. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in operating the businesses of Strayer and Capella. All of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of the combined company, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and negatively impact the price of the combined company shares. As a result, it cannot be assured that the combined company will realize the full benefits anticipated from the merger within the anticipated time frames, or at all.. Following the consummation of the merger, the composition of the combined company board of directors and the management team will be different from the composition of the current board of directors and management teams of Strayer and Capella, which may affect the strategy and operations of the combined company.. Following the consummation of the merger, the board of directors of the combined company will consist of (a) nine directors designated by Strayer, (b) J. Kevin Gilligan, Chief Executive Officer of Capella, and (c) two additional designees who are currently members of the Capella board of directors and are recommended by Mr. Gilligan. In addition, one of the two additional Capella designees will be appointed to serve on the Compensation Committee of the combined company.. Robert Silberman will continue as Executive Chairman of the board of directors of the combined company and Mr. Gilligan will be appointed as Vice Chairman at the effective time. Karl McDonnell, Strayer's current President and Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel W. Jackson, Strayer's current Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will continue in their respective positions at the combined company following the effective time. Steven L. Polacek, Capella's current Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will be appointed as the Chief Integration/Transition Officer of the combined company.. This new composition of the board of directors and management team may affect the combined company's business strategy and operating decisions following the consummation of the merger, as compared to those of Strayer and Capella prior to the merger. In addition, there can be no assurances that the new board of directors and management team will. 48. Table of Contents. function effectively as a team and that any differences or difficulties, should they arise, will not have an adverse effect on the combined company's business or results.. We will incur substantial direct and indirect costs as a result of the merger.. We will incur substantial expenses in connection with and as a result of consummating the merger, and over a period of time following the consummation of the merger, the combined company also expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating and, in certain cases, combining the businesses, operations, policies, and procedures of Strayer and Capella. A portion of the transaction costs related to the merger will be incurred regardless of whether the merger is consummated. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. Although many of the expenses that we will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately, the current estimate of the aggregate expenses that we will incur is between $15-20 million in 2018, which is subject to change. These costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations prior to the merger and those of the combined company following the consummation of the merger.. The combined company is expected to record a significant amount of goodwill as a result of the merger, and such goodwill could become impaired in the future.. Accounting standards in the United States require that one party to the merger be identified as the acquirer. In accordance with these standards, the merger will be accounted for as an acquisition of Capella common stock by Strayer and will follow the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The Strayer assets and liabilities will be consolidated with those of Capella on our financial statements. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of Capella's assets and liabilities will be recorded as goodwill.. The combined company will be required to assess goodwill for impairment at least annually. To the extent goodwill becomes impaired, the combined company may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on future operating results and statements of financial position of the combined company."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
