[1] "ITEM 1A—RISK FACTORS. The Company’s operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond its control. Based on current information, the Company believes that the following identifies the most significant risk factors that could adversely affect its business. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. In evaluating the Company’s business, the following risk factors, as well as other information in this report, should be carefully considered.. Changes in government policies and firearms legislation could adversely affect the Company’s financial results.. The sale, purchase, ownership, and use of firearms are subject to thousands of federal, state and local governmental regulations. The basic federal laws are the National Firearms Act, the Federal Firearms Act, and the Gun Control Act of 1968. These laws generally prohibit the private ownership of fully automatic weapons and place certain restrictions on the interstate sale of firearms unless certain licenses are obtained. The Company does not manufacture fully automatic weapons and holds all necessary licenses under these federal laws. Several states currently have laws in effect similar to the aforementioned legislation.. 10. Table of Contents. In 2005, Congress enacted the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (“PLCAA”). The PLCAA was enacted to address abuses by cities and agenda-driven individuals who wrongly sought to make firearms manufacturers liable for legally manufactured and lawfully sold products if those products were later used in criminal acts. The Company believes the PLCAA merely codifies common sense and long standing tort principles. If the PLCAA is repealed or efforts to circumvent it are successful and lawsuits similar to those filed by cities and agenda-driven individuals in the late 1990s and early 2000s are allowed to proceed, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company.. Currently, federal and several states’ legislatures are considering additional legislation relating to the regulation of firearms. These proposed bills are extremely varied, but many seek either to restrict or ban the sale and, in some cases, the ownership of various types of firearms. Other legislation seeks to require new technologies, such as microstamping and so-called “smart gun” technology, that are not proven, reliable or feasible. Such legislation became effective in California in 2013, and has limited our ability to sell certain products in California. If similar legislation is enacted in other states, it could effectively ban or severely limit the sale of affected firearms. There also are legislative proposals to limit magazine capacity.. The Company believes that the lawful private ownership of firearms is guaranteed by the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution and that the widespread private ownership of firearms in the United States will continue. However, there can be no assurance that the regulation of firearms will not become more restrictive in the future and that any such restriction would not have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company.. The Company’s results of operations could be further adversely affected if legislation with diverse requirements is enacted.. With literally thousands of laws being proposed at the federal, state and local levels, if even a small percentage of these laws are enacted and they are incongruent, the Company could find it difficult, expensive or even practically impossible to comply with them, impeding new product development and distribution of existing products.. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation.. The Company faces risks arising from various asserted and unasserted litigation matters. These matters include, but are not limited to, assertions of allegedly defective product design or manufacture, alleged failure to warn, purported class actions against firearms manufacturers, generally seeking relief such as medical expense reimbursement, property damages, and punitive damages arising from accidents involving firearms or the criminal misuse of firearms, and those lawsuits filed on behalf of municipalities alleging harm to the general public. Various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities such as final adverse judgment, significant settlement or changes in applicable law. A future adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. See Note 17 to the financial statements which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 11. Table of Contents. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from claims or losses.. We maintain insurance coverage with third-party insurers. However, not every risk or liability is or can be protected by insurance, and, for those risks we insure, the limits of coverage we purchase or that are reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. Moreover, there is a risk that commercially available liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims or losses exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business and prospects may be harmed.. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected by a decrease in demand for Company products.. If demand for the Company’s products decreases significantly, the Company would be unable to efficiently utilize its capacity, and profitability would suffer. Decreased demand could result from a macroeconomic downturn, or could be specific to the firearms industry. If the decrease in demand occurs abruptly, the adverse impact would be even greater.. The financial health of our independent distributors is critical to our success.. Over 90% of our sales are made to 19 federally licensed, independent wholesale distributors. We review our distributors’ financial statements and have credit insurance for many of them. However, our credit evaluations of distributors and credit insurance may not be completely effective, especially if an interest rate increase exacts an additional financial strain.. If one or more independent distributors experience financial distress or liquidity issues, we may not be able to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis, which would have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.. The Company must comply with various laws and regulations pertaining to workplace safety and environment, environmental matters, and firearms manufacture.. In the normal course of its manufacturing operations, the Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations, and governmental proceedings and orders. These laws and regulations pertain to matters like workplace safety and environment, firearms serial number tracking and control, waste disposal, air emissions and water discharges into the environment. Noncompliance with any one or more of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on the Company.. Misconduct of our employees or contractors could cause us to lose customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation.. Misconduct, fraud or other improper activities by our employees or contractors could have a material adverse impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with federal, state, local or foreign government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of personal information, laws and regulations relating to antitrust and any other applicable laws or regulations.. 12. Table of Contents. Business disruptions at one of the Company’s manufacturing facilities could adversely affect the Company’s financial results.. The Newport, New Hampshire, Prescott, Arizona and Mayodan, North Carolina facilities are critical to the Company’s success. These facilities house the Company’s principal production, research, development, engineering, design, and shipping operations. Any event that causes a disruption of the operation of any of these facilities for even a relatively short period of time could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to produce and ship products and to provide service to its customers.. We rely on our information and communications systems in our operations. Security breaches and other disruptions could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Cyber-security threats are significant and evolving and include, among others, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. In addition to security threats, we are also subject to other systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks or other events. The unavailability of our information or communications systems, the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated or any significant breach of data security could cause loss of data, disrupt our operations, lead to financial losses from remedial actions, require significant management attention and resources, and negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Price increases for raw materials could adversely affect the Company’s financial results.. Third parties supply the Company with various raw materials for its firearms and castings, such as fabricated steel components, walnut, birch, beech, maple and laminated lumber for rifle stocks, wax, ceramic material, metal alloys, various synthetic products and other component parts. There is a limited supply of these materials in the marketplace at any given time, which can cause the purchase prices to vary based upon numerous market factors. The Company believes that it has adequate quantities of raw materials in inventory or on order to provide ample time to locate and obtain additional items at then-current market cost without interruption of its manufacturing operations. However, if market conditions result in a significant prolonged inflation of certain prices or if adequate quantities of raw materials cannot be obtained, the Company’s manufacturing processes could be interrupted and the Company’s financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Retention of key management is critical to the success of the Company.. We rely on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. Our senior executives are not bound by employment agreements. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel could have a significant adverse impact on our business."
