[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.. The concentration of our business with certain retail customers means that changes in the purchasing policies of these customers could have a significant impact on our business and operating results.. In fiscal 2017, sales to our top seven customers, including Amazon.com, Wal-Mart, Babies R Us/Toys R Us, and Target, accounted for approximately 77% of our total sales. We do not have long-term commitments or contracts with any of our retail customers, and retailers make purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. As such, any customer could periodically renegotiate the terms of our business relationship at any time, which might include reducing overall purchases of our products, altering pricing, reducing the number and variety of our products carried and the shelf space allotted for our products, and reducing cooperative advertising or promotion support. Because of the current concentration of our business with these retail customers, a change in our relationship with any of these customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Liquidity problems or bankruptcy of our key retail customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenue is with key retail customers. Due to the current pressure on traditional brick-and-mortar retailers, there is increased risk that retailers will suffer material losses or file for a petition for bankruptcy. Toys R Us, the owner of Babies R Us, a key customer of the Company, filed for bankruptcy protection in September 2017. The sales we make to these retail customers are typically made on credit without collateral. When a customer files for bankruptcy, our pre-petition accounts receivable may not be realized and post-petition orders reduced or cancelled. The bankruptcy laws may severely limit our ability to collect pre-petition accounts receivable. In early January 2018, we entered into a trade agreement with Toys R Us and expect to receive a total of $1.45 million in settlement of our outstanding U.S. pre-petition accounts receivable in the first quarter of 2018. We have recorded a bad debt allowance of $1.5 million in 2017 related to the remaining uncollectible U.S. pre-petition as well as Canadian pre-petition accounts receivable. If key customers, including Toys R Us, were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy, or significantly reduce the number of stores operated and therefore the amount of products ordered from us, it would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including our ability to access availability under our credit facility.. The intense competition in our market could reduce our net sales and profitability.. We operate in a highly competitive market and compete with several large domestic and foreign companies and with other, smaller producers of infant and juvenile products. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, or have greater e-commerce and social media presence than us. In addition, we face competition from new participants in our market because the infant and juvenile product industry has low barriers to entry. We experience price competition for our products and competition for shelf space at retailers, all of which may increase in the future. If we cannot adjust to changes in our market and compete successfully in the future, our net sales and profitability will likely decline.. 9. Table of Contents. Covenants in our credit facility may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions. Deviations from expected results of operations and expected cash requirements could result in a failure to meet financial covenants, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on our credit facility and cash generated from our operations to meet our working capital needs. Our credit facility agreement includes certain covenants that place limitations on or restrict a number of our activities, including our ability to:. <U+0095> incur additional debt;    <U+0095> create liens on our assets or make guarantees;    <U+0095> make certain investments or loans;    <U+0095> pay dividends or make distributions;    <U+0095> dispose of or sell assets; or    <U+0095> enter into a merger or similar transaction.. These restrictive covenants may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best long-term interests. In addition, we are subject to financial covenants under our credit facility, including a fixed charge coverage ratio and quarterly leverage ratio. Any significant deviation in actual results from our expected results of operations, or in the timing of material expenditures from current estimates, any significant business or product acquisitions, or other significant unanticipated expenses could result in us not meeting these financial covenants.. Non-compliance with the covenants in our credit facility could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our credit facility, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. If access to our credit facility is limited or terminated, our liquidity would be constrained, affecting our operations and growth prospects, and we would need to seek amendments to our credit facility or obtain additional equity or debt financing or face default. There is no assurance that such financing would be available on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, any equity financing may result in dilution to existing stockholders and any debt financing may include restrictive covenants that could impede our ability to effectively operate and grow our business in the future.. Our ability to grow and compete will be harmed if we do not successfully satisfy consumer preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, successfully market and achieve acceptance of those products.. Our business and operating results depend largely upon providing our customers products that appeal to the end user. Consumer preferences, particularly among parents whom are often the end purchasers of our products, are constantly changing. Our success largely depends on our ability to identify emerging trends in the infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness marketplace, and to design quality products that address consumer preferences and prove safe and cost effective. Our product offerings compete with those of many other larger companies. Many of these companies enjoy broader brand recognition and have significant distribution channel relationships in place, and as a result, our market position is always at risk.. Our ability to maintain and increase our current market share will depend upon our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and satisfy these preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, grow existing distribution channels and seek additional distribution channels for these products, successfully market the products and, ultimately, achieve. 10. Table of Contents. consumer acceptance of these products. A failure to achieve market acceptance of our products would harm our ability to grow our business.. An inability to develop and introduce planned new products or product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business.. In developing new products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. When we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future, those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, marketing work, and manufacturing in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. The risk is also heightened by the sophistication of certain products we are designing, in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. Unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products, and delays in the manufacturing process may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. If we are unable to manufacture, source and ship new products in a timely manner and on a cost effective basis, it could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in sufficient quantities, or on a timely basis, or if our inventory levels are too high, our operating results will be adversely affected.. Our business places stringent demands on our inventory forecasting and production planning processes. This inventory management approach may be particularly challenging when combined with \"just-in-time\" inventory management systems commonly used by retailers to minimize their inventory levels. If we fail to meet tight shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost. To deliver our merchandise on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products. This approach requires us to begin to place orders for components for certain products up to a year in advance, and we procure a significant amount of product months in advance of certain time periods. At the time we place factory orders, we may not have firm orders from retailers or a complete understanding of what consumer demand for those products will be. If our inventory forecasting processes are not accurate, it may result in inventory levels in excess of the levels forecasted and we may not have sufficient space at our main distribution center to accommodate excess inventory. As a result, we could be required to record inventory write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory, and/or incur additional expense for storage of excess inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if our processes result in our inventory levels being too low to meet customer demand, we may lose sales, which would adversely affect our operating results.. Because we rely on foreign suppliers and we sell our products in foreign markets, we are subject to numerous risks associated with international business that could increase our costs or disrupt the supply of our products, resulting in a negative impact on our business and financial condition.. While the majority of our sales continue to be in North America, we operate facilities and sell products in countries outside the United States. Additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party suppliers and manufacturers located in Asia to produce a majority of our products. These sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including:. <U+0095> economic and political instability;. 11. Table of Contents. <U+0095> restrictive actions by foreign governments;    <U+0095> greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting intellectual property rights;     <U+0095> trade restrictions;    <U+0095> work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions;    <U+0095> reduction in business activity in some parts of the world;    <U+0095> currency fluctuations and devaluations;    <U+0095> changes in import duties or import or export restrictions;    <U+0095> compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations;    <U+0095> untimely shipping of product and unloading of product through West Coast ports, as well as untimely truck delivery to our warehouses;     <U+0095> complications in complying with the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods, including duties, quotas, and taxes;    <U+0095> limitations on repatriation of foreign earnings; and    <U+0095> complications in complying with foreign tax laws.. Recent uncertainty with respect to potential changes to the U.S. tariff, and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on our results of operations. Due to our significant manufacturing presence in China, from which we import a majority of our products, the occurrence of such trade reforms or restrictions could significantly impact our business in an adverse manner.. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC resulting in record fines and penalties, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition.. Also, because we generate some of our revenue outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our financial results are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar is strong against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenue or expense could result in lower U.S. dollar denominated net revenue and expense.. Any adverse change in our relationship with our suppliers could harm our business.. We rely on numerous third-party suppliers located in Asia for the manufacture of most of our products. While we believe that alternative suppliers could be located if required, our product sourcing could be affected if any of these suppliers do not continue to manufacture our products in required quantities or at all, or with the required levels of quality. We do not have any long-term supply contracts with our foreign suppliers; rather, we enter into purchase orders with these suppliers. In addition, difficulties encountered by these suppliers, such as fire, accident, natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases, or political unrest, could halt or disrupt production at the affected locations, resulting in delay or cancellation of orders. Any of these events could result in delayed deliveries by us of our products, causing reduced sales and harm to our reputation and brand name.. 12. Table of Contents. Increases in the cost of materials or labor used to manufacture our products could decrease our profitability and therefore negatively impact our business and financial condition.. Because our products are manufactured by third-party suppliers, we do not directly purchase the materials used in the manufacture of our products. However, the prices paid by us to these suppliers could increase if raw materials, labor, or other costs increase. If we cannot pass these increases along to our customers, our profitability will be adversely affected.. Earthquakes or other catastrophic events out of our control may damage our primary distribution facility and harm our results of operations.. Our primary distribution facility is located in Riverside, California, near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, flood, fire, or other natural or manmade disaster, could impact operations at this facility and impair distribution of our products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions, or otherwise affect our business negatively, harming our results of operations.. Intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs and adversely affect our business.. We receive, from time to time, claims of alleged infringement of patents relating to certain of our products, and we may face similar claims in the future. The defense of intellectual property claims can be costly and time consuming, even in circumstances where the claim is without merit. We may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in order to resolve these types of claims. In addition, these claims could materially harm our brand name, reputation and operations.. As a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. In addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits, product recalls, and other claims relating to the use of our products, which could harm our business.. Because we produce infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulation and face product liability risks relating to consumer use of our products. We must comply with a variety of state and federal product safety and product testing regulations. In particular, our products are subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (\"FHSA\") and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (\"CPSIA\"), which empower the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the \"CPSC\"), to take action against hazards presented by consumer products. With expanded authority under the CPSIA, the CPSC has and continues to adopt new regulations for safety and products testing that apply to our products. These new regulations have or likely will significantly increase the regulatory requirements governing the manufacture and sale of children's products and increase the potential penalties for noncompliance with applicable regulations. The CPSC has the authority to exclude from the market and recall certain consumer products that are found to be potentially hazardous. Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in Canada and Europe, as well as certain other countries. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, or if we face product liability claims, we may be subject to damage awards or settlement costs that exceed any available insurance coverage and we may incur significant costs in complying with recall requirements.. We maintain a quality control program to help ensure compliance with applicable product safety requirements. Nonetheless, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, issues in products that may lead to product liability, personal injury or property damage claims, recalls, withdrawals, replacements of products, or regulatory actions by governmental authorities. A product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, depending on the product affected by the recall and the extent of the recall efforts required. A product recall could also negatively affect our reputation and the sales of other products. Furthermore, concerns about potential. 13. Table of Contents. liability may lead us to recall voluntarily selected products. Complying with existing or any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business operations, decrease sales, increase legal fees and other costs, and put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other manufacturers not affected by similar issues with products, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations.. In addition to product liability risks relating to the use by consumers of our products, we also must comply with a variety of state and federal laws and regulations which prohibits unfair or deceptive trade practices, including dissemination of false or misleading advertising. While we take steps we believe are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will always be in compliance. Compliance with these various laws and regulations could impose significant costs on our business if we fail to comply, and could result in monetary liabilities and other penalties and lead to significant negative media attention and consumer dissatisfaction, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are dependent on key personnel, and our ability to grow and compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of our key personnel, or we fail to identify, hire, and retain additional qualified personnel.. Our success depends on the efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. Although we believe that we have a strong management team, the loss of services of members of our senior management team, who have substantial experience in the infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness markets, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we expect to grow our operations, it will be necessary for us to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The market for qualified and talented product development personnel in the consumer goods market, and specifically in the infant and juvenile health, safety and wellness products market, is intensely competitive. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel as needed, the growth of our operations could be slowed or hampered.. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, that, if not identified, could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth.. Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by nondeductible equity-based compensation, earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, transfer pricing adjustments, not meeting the terms and conditions of tax holidays or incentives, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in actual results versus our estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, and taxes relating to deemed dividends resulting from foreign guarantees made by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. In addition, like other companies, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. A material impairment in the carrying value of other intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth.. A portion of our assets are intangible, which are reviewed on an annual basis and/or whenever events and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the current fair value, the asset is considered. 14. Table of Contents. impaired and is reduced to fair value, resulting in a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment is determined. If we make changes in our business strategy, our future operating performance was to fall significantly below forecast levels or if external conditions adversely affect our business operations, we may be required to record an impairment charge for intangibles, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net operating results and net worth. As discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations below, we recorded an impairment charge for certain indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of 2016. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any future impairment of assets.. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.. We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products, and various other processes and transactions, including credit card processing for online sales. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the production, distribution, and sale of our products depends on the reliability and capacity of these systems and in some instances, third-party service providers. The failure of these systems to operate effectively due to service interruptions, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of our operations, loss of proprietary data or customer information, and capital investments could be required to remediate the problem.. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. When we or our competitors announce new products, experience quarterly fluctuations in operating results, announce strategic relationships, acquisitions or dispositions, change earnings estimates, publish financial results or other material news, our stock price is often affected. The volatility of our stock price may be accentuated during periods of low volume trading, which may require a stockholder wishing to sell a large number of shares to do so in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may limit the ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our Company and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, which may not be in your best interests.. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation include authorization for our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, and to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. Our bylaws require advance written notice of stockholder proposals and director nominations.. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. Finally, the Board of Directors may in the future adopt other protective measures, such as a stockholder rights plan, which could delay, deter or prevent a change of control."
