[1] "ITEM 1A. - RISK FACTORS. FACTORS INFLUENCING FUTURE RESULTS - FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report contains \"forward-looking statements\" (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections, our beliefs, and assumptions made by us, including (i) our strategies regarding growth, including our intention to develop new products and undertake acquisitions; (ii) our financing plans; (iii) trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations; (iv) our ability to continue to control costs and to meet our liquidity and other financing needs; (v) the declaration and payment of dividends; and (vi) our ability to respond to changes in customer demand domestically and internationally, including as a result of standardization.  In addition, we may make other written or oral statements, which constitute forward-looking statements, from time to time.  Words such as \"may,\" \"expects,\" \"projects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"intends,\" \"plans,\" \"believes,\" \"seeks,\" \"estimates,\" variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.  Similarly, statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals also are forward-looking statements.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report.  Our actual results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements.  All forward-looking statements are made as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) conditions in the capital markets, including the interest rate environment and the availability of capital; (ii) changes in the competitive marketplace that could affect our revenue and/or cost bases, such as increased competition, lack of qualified engineering, marketing, management or other personnel, and increased labor and raw materials costs; (iii) new product introductions, product sales mix and the geographic mix of sales nationally and internationally; and (iv) the following risk factors:. Risks Relating to Our Business. General global economic trends and industry trends may affect our sales. The capital goods industry in general, and the Hydraulics segment in particular, are subject to economic cycles, which directly affect customer orders, lead times and sales volume. Economic downturns generally have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, as they did in 2009. Cyclical economic expansions such as those of 2014, provide a context where demand for capital goods is stimulated, creating increased demand for the products we produce. In the Electronics segment, our business and widespread adoption of advanced digital control solutions that integrate technologies such as high resolution displays, configurable software GPS navigation telematics, vehicle management systems, and diagnostics to improve engine safety, energy efficiency, performance, and reliability with less dependence on operator skill, is dependent on the general economy, but also favorable industry trends of the many industries our products serve. If one or more of these expected industry trends fails to occur, or occurs at a slower rate than expected, our sales growth will be negatively impacted and our business will be adversely affected. In the future, continued weakening or improvement in the economy will directly affect orders and influence results of operations.. Our business could be harmed by adverse global and regional economic and political conditions. In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (\"Brexit\"), and the British government has indicated that it intends to negotiate the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union based on the results of this vote. The Brexit vote has created significant economic uncertainty in the United Kingdom and in Europe, the Middle East, and Asia, which may negatively impact our business results in those regions. In addition, the terms of Brexit, once negotiated, could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions, and may cause us to lose customers, suppliers, and employees. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate.  Any of these effects could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 11. We are subject to intense competition.. Hydraulics. The Hydraulics segment is intensely competitive, and competition comes from a large number of companies, some of which are full-line producers and others that are niche suppliers like us. Full-line producers have the ability to provide total hydraulic systems to customers, including components functionally similar to those manufactured by us. We believe that we compete based upon quality, reliability, price, value, speed of delivery and technological characteristics. Many screw-in cartridge valve competitors are owned by corporations that are significantly larger and have greater financial resources than we have. Also, competitors have emerged in low cost production areas such as Asia and Eastern Europe with look-alike products. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to compete effectively with these companies.. Most competitors either manufacture manifolds or have sources that they use on a regular basis. In addition, there are many independent manifold suppliers that produce manifolds incorporating various manufacturers' screw-in cartridge valves, including those made by us. Finally, there are many small, independent machine shops that produce manifolds at very competitive prices. We believe that competition in the manifold and integrated package business is based upon quality, price, performance, proximity to the customer and speed of delivery. Many competitors have very low overhead structures and we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete effectively with these companies.. In addition, we compete in the sale of hydraulic valves, manifolds and integrated packages with certain of our customers, who also may be competitors. Generally, these customers purchase cartridge valves from us to meet a specific need in a system that cannot be filled by any valve they make themselves. To the extent that we introduce new products in the future that increase competition with such customers, it may have an adverse effect on our relationships with them.. Electronics. In the Electronics segment, our products face, and will continue to face, significant competition, including from incumbent technologies. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products uncompetitive or obsolete. Other companies, many of which have substantially longer operating histories and larger customer bases, name recognition, and financial and marketing resources than we do, are currently engaged in the development of products and technologies that are similar to, or may compete with, certain of our products and technologies.. We sell products into competitive markets. Within our primary markets, we compete with a range of companies that offer certain individual components of our full system solutions. The components of our overall systems most commonly include displays, panels, sensors, valves, and other end-devices. These competitors include, but are not limited to, LOFA Industries, Inc., Controls, Inc., Medallion Instrumentation Systems LLC, and Faria Beede Instruments, Inc.. We also face competition from customers developing products internally. Customers for our products generally have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. Some customers have traditionally used these resources to develop their own products internally. The future prospects for our products are dependent upon our customers' acceptance of our products as an alternative to their internally developed products. Future sales prospects also are dependent upon acceptance of third-party sourcing for products as an alternative to in-house development. Customers may in the future continue to use internally developed components. They also may decide to develop or acquire products that are similar to, or that may be substituted for, our products. If our customers fail to accept our products as an alternative, if they develop or acquire the technology to develop such products internally rather than purchase our products, or if we are otherwise unable to develop or maintain strong relationships with them, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. Competitive actions, such as price reductions, consolidation in the industry, improved delivery and other actions, could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. We could experience a material adverse effect to the extent that our competitors are successful in reducing our customers' purchases of products and services from us. Competition could also cause us to lower our prices, which could reduce our margins and profitability.. We are subject to risks relating to international sales.  International sales represent a significant proportion of our consolidated sales.  Approximately 47% and 59% of our net sales were outside of the United States during 2017 and 2016, respectively. We will continue to expand the scope of operations outside the United States, both through direct investment and distribution, and expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial portion of net sales in future periods.. 12. Our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:. •  changes in the political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including civil uprisings and terrorist acts;. •  unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. •  the imposition of duties and tariffs and other trade barriers;. •  import and export controls;. •  potentially negative consequences from changes in United States and international tax laws;. •  fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the value of the U.S. dollar;. •  exchange controls and currency restrictions;. •  expropriation of property without fair compensation;. •  governmental actions that result in the deprivation of contract or proprietary rights;. •  the acceptance of business practices that are not consistent with or are antithetical to prevailing business practices we are accustomed to in the United States, including bribery and corruption;. •  difficulty in staffing and managing geographically widespread operations;. •  the unionization of, or increased union activity, such as strikes or work stoppages, with respect to, our workforce outside the United States;. •  differing labor regulations;. •  requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;. •  different regulatory regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property;. •  difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations under non-U.S. law;. •  refusal or inability of foreign banks to make payment on letters of credit in connection with foreign sales, and our inability to collect from our foreign customers in such circumstances;. •  restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, repatriate dividends or earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, or to make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; and. •  the burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws.. Our international operations and sales also expose us to different local political, regulatory, and business risks and challenges. For example, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations and we have to design local solutions to manage credit and legal risks of local customers and channel partners, which may not be effective. In addition, because some of our international sales are to suppliers that perform work for foreign governments, we are subject to the political and legal risks associated with foreign government projects. For example, certain foreign governments may require suppliers for a project to obtain products solely from local manufacturers or may prohibit the use of products manufactured in certain countries.. International growth and expansion into markets such as Europe, Asia, and Latin America may cause us difficulty due to greater regulatory barriers than in the United States, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems, problems related to entering new markets with different economic, social and political systems and conditions, and significant competition from the primary participants in these markets, some of which may have substantially greater resources and political influence than we do. For example, unstable political conditions or civil unrest could negatively impact our order levels and sales in a region or our ability to collect receivables from customers or operate or execute projects in a region.. Our international operations and transactions also depend upon favorable trade relations between the United States and those foreign countries in which our customers and suppliers have operations. A protectionist trade environment in either the United States or those foreign countries in which we do business or sell products, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws, government subsidies, or other trade policies, may adversely affect our ability to sell our products or do business in foreign markets. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social, and political conditions. We may not succeed in developing and implementing. 13. policies and strategies to counter the foregoing factors effectively in each location where we do business, and the foregoing factors may cause a reduction in our sales, profitability, or cash flows, or cause an increase in our liabilities.. Failure to comply with laws, regulations and policies, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption legislation, could result in fines, criminal penalties and an adverse effect on our business. We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including anti-corruption laws and export-import compliance and trade laws, due to our global operations. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies, their agents, consultants and other business partners from making improper payments to government officials or other persons (i.e., commercial bribery) for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other improper advantage.  They also impose recordkeeping and internal control provisions on companies such as ours. We operate and/or conduct business, and any acquisition target may operate and/or conduct business, in some parts of the world, such as China, India and Russia, that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and in such countries, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Under some circumstances, a parent company may be civilly and criminally liable for bribes paid by a subsidiary.  We cannot assure you that our or any acquisition target's internal control policies and procedures have protected us, or will protect us, from unlawful conduct of our employees, agents, consultants and other business partners. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that violations may have occurred, including without limitation violations of anti-corruption laws, we may be required to investigate and/or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. Violation may result in substantial civil and/or criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, sanctions and penalties, debarment from future work with governments, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and imprisonment of the individuals involved.  As a result, any such violations may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Any of these impacts could have a material, adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Fluctuations in exchange and interest rates may affect our operating results and impact our financial condition. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar may increase or decrease our sales or earnings. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, when we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, or we pay expenses in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to the value of the local currency, we may be less competitive. In addition, our debt service requirements are in U.S. dollars and a portion of our cash flow is generated in British Pounds, Euros or other foreign currencies. Significant changes in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could impair our cash flow, results of operations, and financial condition.. In addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. For purposes of accounting, the assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated using period-end exchange rates, and the revenues and expenses of our foreign operations are translated using average exchange rates during each period.. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than U.S. dollars. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency or translation risks. Volatility in currency exchange rates may decrease our sales and profitability and impair our financial condition. Though we periodically evaluate our need to hedge our exposures to foreign currencies, we have not hedged any such exposures to date.. Our existing indebtedness could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. As of December 30, 2017, we had total indebtedness (including the current portion) of approximately $116 million. Our indebtedness, or any additional indebtedness we may incur, could require us to divert funds identified for other purposes for debt service and impair our liquidity position. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets or issue equity to obtain necessary funds. We do not know whether we will be able to take any of these actions on a timely basis, on terms satisfactory to us or at all.. 14. Our indebtedness, the cash flow needed to satisfy our debt and the covenants contained in our senior credit facility have important consequences, including:. •  limiting funds otherwise available for financing our capital expenditures by requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest on this debt;. •  limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness;. •  limiting our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities;. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less indebted than we are;. •  making us more vulnerable to rising interest rates; and. •  making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business.. More specifically, under the terms of our senior credit facility, we have agreed to certain financial covenants. In addition, our senior credit facility places limitations on our ability to make capital expenditures and to acquire other companies. Any failure by us to comply with the financial or other covenants set forth in our senior credit facility in the future, if not cured or waived, could result in our senior lender accelerating the maturity of our indebtedness or preventing us from accessing availability under our senior credit facility. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient cash resources to satisfy our debt obligations and we may not be able to continue our operations as planned.. We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. We may require additional capital in the future to:. •  fund our operations;. •  finance investments in equipment and infrastructure needed to maintain and expand our manufacturing and distribution capabilities;. •  finance investments in equipment and infrastructure needed to maintain and expand our manufacturing and distribution capabilities;. •  enhance and expand the range of products we offer; and. •  respond to potential strategic opportunities, such as investments, acquisitions, and international expansion.. We can give no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. The terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to reduce our operations or to delay, limit or abandon expansion opportunities. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, the failure to obtain additional financing could reduce our competitiveness. Our senior credit facility limits our ability to incur additional debt and therefore we likely would have to issue additional equity to raise additional capital. If we issue additional equity, your interest in us will be diluted.. We are subject to various risks relating to our growth strategy. In pursuing our growth strategy and Vision 2025, we intend to expand our presence in existing markets, enter new markets, and pursue acquisitions and joint ventures to complement our business. Many of the expenses arising from expansion efforts may have a negative effect on operating results until such time, if at all, that these expenses are offset by increased revenues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to improve our market share or profitability, recover our expenditures, or successfully implement our growth strategy.. The expansion strategy also may require substantial capital investment for the construction of new facilities and their effective operation. We can give no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all.. Our culture, by encouraging initiative, and both individual and collaborative responsibility, has substantially contributed to our success and operating results. Because our employees are able to readily shift their job functions to accommodate the demands of the business and changes in the market, we are a nimble, creative and innovative organization. As we increase the number of our employees and grow into new geographic markets, our culture will likely shift and evolve in new ways. Because our culture promotes the drivers of our success, our inability to protect and align our core values and culture with the evolving needs of the business could adversely affect our continued success.. 15. We may fail to successfully acquire or integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies. A key component of our growth strategy and Vision 2025 depends upon our ability to successfully identify and integrate acquisition targets that complement our existing products and services. Our recently released agreement to acquire Faster is part of this strategy. Such a strategy involves the potential risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent or other liabilities, and potential profitability of acquisition candidates and in integrating the operations of acquired companies, including Faster. In addition, any acquisitions of businesses with foreign operations or sales may increase our exposure to risks inherent in doing business outside the United States. From time to time, we may have acquisition discussions with potential target companies both domestically and internationally. Any acquisition may or may not occur and, if an acquisition does occur, it may not be successful in enhancing our business for one or more of the following reasons:. •  Any business acquired may not be integrated successfully and may not prove profitable;. •  The price we pay for any business acquired may overstate the value of that business or otherwise be too high;. •  Liabilities we take on through the acquisition may prove to be higher than we expected;. •  Impairment of relationships with employees and customers of the business acquired as a result of the change in ownership;. •  We may fail to achieve acquisition synergies; or. •  The focus on the integration of operations of acquired entities may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operation of our businesses.. Inherent in any future acquisition is the risk of transitioning company cultures and facilities. The failure to efficiently and effectively achieve such transitions could increase our costs and decrease our profitability.. We also may incur significant costs such as transaction fees, professional service fees, and other costs related to future acquisitions, as well as integration costs following the completion of any such acquisitions. Although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of any acquired businesses will offset the incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, this net financial benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. If we are unable to continue our technological innovation and successful introduction of new commercial products, our business will be adversely affected. The industries we serve in the Electronics segment experience ongoing technological change and product improvement. Manufacturers periodically introduce new generations of products or require new technological capacity to develop customized products or to respond to industry developments or needs. Our future growth will depend on our ability to gauge the direction of the commercial and technological progress in our markets, as well as our ability to acquire new product technologies or to fund and successfully develop, manufacture and market products in this constantly changing environment. We must continue to identify, develop, manufacture and market innovative products on a timely basis to replace existing products in order to maintain our profit margins and competitive position. We may not be successful in acquiring and developing new products or technologies and any of our new products may not be accepted by our customers. If we fail to keep pace with evolving technological innovations in the markets we serve, our business will be adversely affected. Technology does not advance as quickly in the Hydraulics segment and therefore has a lower threat than the Electronics segment relative to continued technological innovation.. Our product development activities may not be successful or may be more costly than currently anticipated, or we may not be able to produce newly developed products at a competitive cost. Our business involves a significant level of product development activities, generally in connection with our customers' development activities. Industry standards, customer expectations, or other products may emerge that could render one or more of our products or services less desirable or obsolete. Maintaining our market position requires continued investment in research and development. During an economic downturn or a subsequent recovery, we may need to maintain our investment in research and development, which may limit our ability to reduce these expenses in proportion to a sales shortfall. In addition, increased investments in research and development may divert resources from other potential investments in our business, such as acquisitions or investments in our facilities, processes and operations. If these activities are not as successful as currently anticipated, are not completed on a timely basis, or are more costly than currently anticipated, or if we are not able to produce newly developed products at a cost that meets the anticipated product cost structure, then our future sales, margins and/or earnings could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 16. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed. In the Electronics segment particularly, we rely significantly on trade secrets, including unpatented software algorithms, know-how, technology, and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect software algorithms through encryption mechanisms in the distribution of our binary files used in programming our engine control products. However, we cannot guarantee that these encryption techniques can protect all or any portion of these binary files. In practice, we seek to protect our trade secrets by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. In practice, we also enter into confidentiality and noncompetition agreements with certain of our employees and consultants that obligate them to assign to us any inventions developed in the course of their work for us. However, we cannot guarantee that we have executed these agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets or that the agreements we have executed will provide adequate protection. Despite these efforts, any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. As a result, we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they bring against us, to determine ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult and we do not know whether the procedures we have followed to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States may be less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to, or independently developed by, a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. The inability to protect our intellectual property could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage and reduce our sales and profitability, and the cost of protecting our intellectual property may be significant.  In the Electronics segment particularly, we have obtained and applied for some U.S. and foreign trademark and patent registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and patents, as appropriate. The key issued patents in our patent portfolio are scheduled to expire between 2025 and 2033. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending patent and trademark applications will be approved. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge them. An inability to obtain registrations in the United States or elsewhere could limit our ability to protect our trademarks and technologies and could impede our business. Further, the protection of our intellectual property rights may require expensive investment in protracted litigation and substantial management time, and there is no assurance we ultimately would prevail or that a successful outcome would lead to an economic benefit that is greater than the investment in the litigation. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent and Trademark Office recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We may also face difficulties protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign countries. The laws of foreign countries in which our products are sold or manufactured may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, we are increasing our technical capabilities and sales in China, where laws may not afford the same intellectual property protections.. Our use of open source software may expose us to additional risks. In the Electronics segment particularly, we use open source software in our business, including in some of our products. While we try to monitor all use of open source software in our business to ensure that no open source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to critical or fundamental elements of our software or technology, we cannot be certain that such use may not have inadvertently occurred in deploying our solutions. Furthermore, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts. As a result, there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. The risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated and could potentially have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 17. If we are alleged to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights owned by others, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the Electronics segment, competitors or other third parties may allege that we, or consultants or other third parties retained or indemnified by us, infringe on their intellectual property rights. We also may face allegations that our employees have misappropriated intellectual property rights of their former employers or other third parties. From time to time, we receive notices from other companies that allege we may be infringing certain of their patents or other rights. If we are unable to resolve these matters satisfactorily, or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms, we may face litigation. Given the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property-related litigation, the assertion of an infringement claim against us may cause us to spend significant amounts to defend the claim (even if we ultimately prevail), pay significant money damages, lose significant revenues, be prohibited from using the relevant technologies or other intellectual property rights, cease offering certain products or services, or incur significant license, royalty, or technology development expenses. Even in instances where we believe that claims and allegations of intellectual property infringement against us are without merit, defending against such claims is time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of time and attention of our management and employees. In addition, although in some cases a third party may have agreed to indemnify us for such costs, such indemnifying party may refuse or be unable to uphold its contractual obligations.. We are dependent upon key employees and skilled personnel. Our success depends, to some extent, upon a number of key individuals. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Future operating results depend to a significant degree upon the continued contribution of key management, technical personnel and the skilled labor force. As the Company continues to expand internationally, additional management and other key personnel will be needed. Competition for management and engineering personnel is intense, and other employers may have greater financial and other resources to attract and retain these employees. We conduct a substantial part of our operations in Sarasota, Florida, and Tulsa, Oklahoma. Our continued success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain a skilled labor force at these locations. There are no assurances that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel required to develop, manufacture and market our products and expand our operations.. We are subject to fluctuations in the prices of parts and raw materials, and dependent on our suppliers of these parts. We are dependent upon suppliers for parts and raw materials used in the manufacture of components that we sell to our customers, and some of our raw material costs are subject to commodity market price fluctuations. We may experience an increase in costs for parts or raw materials that we source from our suppliers, or we may experience a shortage of parts or raw materials for various reasons, such as the loss of a significant supplier, high overall demand creating shortages in parts and supplies we use, financial distress, work stoppages, natural disasters, fluctuations in commodity prices, or production difficulties that may affect one or more of our suppliers. In particular, current or future global economic uncertainty may affect our key suppliers in terms of their operating cash flow and access to financing. This may, in turn, affect their ability to perform their obligations to us. In addition, quality and sourcing issues that our suppliers may experience can also adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and may result in liability or reputational harm to us. Our customers rely on us to provide on-time delivery and have certain rights if our delivery standards are not maintained. A significant increase in our supply costs, including for raw materials that are subject to commodity price fluctuations, or a protracted interruption of supplies for any reason, could result in the delay of one or more of our customer contracts, or could damage our reputation and relationships with our customers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Some of our products contain magnets that use rare earth metals, and unavailability or limited supply of these metals could delay production of our products or increase our production costs.  In the Electronics segment, some of our products contain magnets that use rare earth metals sourced from China. Although such rare earth metals are available from other sources, these alternative sources may be more costly. Reduced availability of such rare earth metals from China through additional export regulations or restrictions, export quotas, tariffs, or for other reasons could impact our ability to obtain magnets that use the required rare earth metals in sufficient quantities, in a timely manner, or at a commercially reasonable cost. In the event that China's actions cause our suppliers to seek alternate sources of supply for rare earth metals, it could cause a delay in the production of our products that contain magnets using rare earth metals and increase the cost to us of such magnets, thereby reducing or eliminating our profit margin on certain of our products if we are unable to pass the increase in our production costs on to our customers. Increasing prices to our customers due to escalating costs of rare earth metals may reduce demand for our products and negatively affect our results of operations.. 18. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services. We are dependent on various information technologies throughout our Company to administer, store and support multiple business activities. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions, and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes, and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness, and results of operations.. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of our facilities, or other catastrophic loss of one of our key manufacturing facilities, may cause significant lost production and adversely affect our results of operations.  Our manufacturing process could be affected by operational problems that could impair our production capability. Many of our manufacturing facilities contain high cost and sophisticated machines that are used in our manufacturing process. Disruptions or shut downs at any of our facilities could be caused by:. •  maintenance outages to conduct maintenance activities that cannot be performed safely during operations;. •  prolonged power failures or reductions;. •  breakdown, failure or substandard performance of any of our machines or other equipment;. •  noncompliance with, and liabilities related to, environmental requirements or permits;. •  disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads;. •  fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, microbursts or other catastrophic disasters, national emergencies, political unrest, war or terrorist activities; or. •  other operational problems.. If some of our facilities are shut down, they may experience prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks or longer, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of our facilities could cause a significant loss of production and adversely affect our results of operations and negatively impact our customers and dealers.. A significant portion of our operations are located in Florida, a region that is susceptible to hurricanes.  A catastrophic event, whether resulting from a hurricane or otherwise, could result in the loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our manufacturing facilities. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any of these events individually or in the aggregate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. We are subject to risks relating to changes in our tax rates, unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates or changes in tax laws. We are subject to on-going tax audits in various jurisdictions. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us and our shareholders. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the TCJA, which significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities have been revalued at the newly-enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact was recognized in our tax expense for the 2017 year. We continue to examine the impact that this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. We urge our shareholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. 19. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and we may face significant costs or liabilities associated with environmental, health and safety matters.  We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the soil, air, and water, the generation, storage, handling, use, release, disposal and transportation of hazardous materials and wastes, environmental cleanup, and the health and safety of our employees. Environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations continue to evolve, and we may become subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards in the future, particularly related to air quality and water quality, which could require us to make changes to our operations or incur significant costs relating to compliance. We are also required to obtain and maintain environmental, health and safety permits and approvals for our facilities and operations. Our failure to comply with such laws, regulations, permits and approvals could subject us to increased employee healthcare and workers' compensation costs, liabilities, fines and other penalties or compliance costs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to a variety of governmental regulations that may restrict our business and may result in costs and penalties. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to foreign business practices, labor and employment, construction, land use, and taxation, among others. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including assessment of monetary penalties and the imposition of corrective requirements. From time to time, as part of the regular overall evaluation of our operations, including newly acquired operations, we may be subject to compliance audits by regulatory authorities. In addition, any failure to comply with regulations related to the government procurement process at the federal, state, or local level or restrictions on political activities and lobbying may result in administrative or financial penalties including being barred from providing services to governmental entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our operations expose us to risks of non-compliance with numerous countries' import and export laws and regulations. Due to our significant foreign sales, we are subject to trade and import and export regulations in multiple jurisdictions, including the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control's regulations. As a result, compliance with multiple trade sanctions and embargoes and import and export laws and regulations pose a constant challenge and risk to us. Furthermore, the laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments, loss of import and export privileges, reputational damage, and a reduction in the value of our common stock.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may force us to incur additional expenses and may result in damage to our reputation. We are subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission's (the \"SEC\") regulations applicable to companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products or in the production of their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements require us to conduct an inquiry into the country of origin of the conflict minerals used, and if it is determined that the conflict minerals used may have originated in the Democratic Republic of Congo or other covered countries, conduct due diligence on the source and chain of custody of the conflict minerals. These requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, we incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products or in the manufacturing process. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products be conflict mineral free.. Due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages based on product liability, other tort, and warranty claims. We face an inherent risk of exposure to claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in death, bodily injury, property damage, or economic loss. In the past we have been subject to product liability claims relating to our products, and we may be subject to additional product liability claims in the future for both past and current products.. 20. Although we currently maintain product liability coverage, which we believe to be adequate for the continued operation of our business, such insurance may become difficult or impossible to obtain in the future on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, our insurance coverage includes customary exclusions and conditions, may not cover certain specialized applications, and generally does not cover warranty claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us, including one or more consumer claims purporting to constitute class actions or claims resulting from extraordinary loss events, in excess of or outside our insurance coverage, or a significant warranty claim or series of claims against us, could materially decrease our liquidity, impair our financial condition and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, regardless of the outcome, product liability claims can be expensive to defend, can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, and can cause reputational damage.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Future sales of our common stock in the public market or the issuance of securities senior to our common stock could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings.  Sales by us or our shareholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities.. In connection with our recent 2018 underwritten public offering, subject to certain exceptions, our directors, officers, and certain significant holders of our common stock have agreed not to offer, sell or agree to sell, directly or indirectly, any shares of our common stock without the permission of the underwriter for a period of 90 days from February 1, 2018. Sales of a substantial number of such shares upon expiration of such period, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause our share price to fall or make it more difficult for you to sell your shares of our common stock at a time and price that you deem appropriate.. We may issue common stock or equity securities senior to our common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, as consideration in acquisitions or for other reasons. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales or issuances of shares of our common stock or other equity securities, or the availability of shares of our common stock or any other equity securities for future sale or issuance, will have on the trading price of our common stock.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which could negatively affect us and holders of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For instance, if our financial results are below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could decrease, perhaps significantly. Other factors that may affect the market price of our common stock include announcements relating to significant corporate transactions; operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; future sales by us or our subsidiaries of equity, equity-related or debt securities; the amount, if any, of dividends that we pay on our common stock; anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; changes in regional, national or global financial markets and economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility; and changes in government regulation or proposals relating to us. In addition, the U.S. and global securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of companies in these markets. Market fluctuations and broad market, economic and industry factors may negatively affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. You may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock. Any volatility of or a significant decrease in the market price of our common stock could also negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions using our common stock.. Additional issuances of equity securities would dilute the ownership of existing shareholders and could reduce our earnings per share. We may issue equity securities in the future in connection with capital raising activities, acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, the ownership of our existing shareholders would be diluted and our earnings per share could be reduced.. Provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Florida law, may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as certain provisions of Florida law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements. 21. which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. In addition, a change of control of our Company may be delayed or deterred as a result of our having three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. We are subject to control by certain shareholders and management. Christine L. Koski, the daughter of the deceased founder of the Company, Robert E. Koski, is a member of the board of directors. She, along with other family members, own or control approximately 11% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, the members of the Koski family have the ability to influence significantly the election of our directors and the outcome of certain corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, and to influence our business. Such influence could preclude any acquisition of the Company and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own or control approximately 9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.. You may not receive dividends on our common stock. Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments and as permitted by our debt agreements. Although historically we have paid a continuous quarterly dividend and a periodic special dividend, we are not required to declare cash dividends on our common stock and the payment of future quarterly and special dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors. In determining the amount of any future quarterly or special dividends, our board of directors will consider economic and market conditions, our financial condition and operating results. Any change in our historical dividend practice could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our board of directors decides not to pay dividends in the future, then a return on your investment in our common stock will only occur if our stock price appreciates.. Securities analysts may issue negative reports or cease to cover our common stock, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, then our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of Sun, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock."
