[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The risks described in this Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that are not presently known or that we deem to be immaterial also may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects.. Regulatory Risks. Current and future legislation and regulation could require us to change our business practices, reduce revenue, impose additional costs, or otherwise adversely affect business operations or competitiveness.. As a financial institution, we are subject to extensive state and federal regulation in the U.S. and in those jurisdictions outside of the U.S. where we conduct certain limited operations. This regulation, together with increased reporting and significant existing and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements, limit the manner in which we do business and may restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses; to engage in new or expanded business; to offer certain products and services; reduce or limit our revenue; subject us to increased and additional fees, assessments, or taxes; and otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. Our failure to comply with the laws, regulations, and rules governing our business may result in fines, sanctions (including restrictions on business activities), and damage to reputation. Further, regulators and bank supervisors continue to exercise qualitative supervision and regulation of our industry and specific business operations and related matters, such as resolution planning, AML and OFAC compliance programs, and incentive compensation. Any failure to satisfy regulators' substantive and qualitative expectations may adversely affect our business and operations. Violations of laws and regulations or deemed deficiencies in risk management or other qualitative practices also may be incorporated into the Company's bank supervisory ratings. A downgrade in these ratings, or other regulatory actions and settlements, can limit the Company's ability to pursue acquisitions or conduct other expansionary activities for a period of time and require new or additional regulatory approvals before engaging in certain other business activities.. Also, in general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations and the severity of other terms of regulatory settlements have been increasing dramatically. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas, admissions of wrongdoing, imposed limitations on asset growth, managerial changes, or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant consequences for a financial institution, including loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access the capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. These enforcement trends also increase the exposure of financial institutions to civil litigation and reputational damage, leading to potential loss of customers.. As the primary focus of financial services regulation is the protection of depositors, FDIC funds, consumers, and the. banking system as a whole, and not protection of shareholders, this regulation may be adverse to our shareholders' interests.. Legislation or regulation also may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult to predict. Other additional regulation that may be adopted could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and competitive position, and other negative consequences.. For more detailed information regarding the regulatory framework to which we are subject, and a discussion of key aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, see the \"Regulation and Supervision\" section within Item 1, \"Business,\" of this Form 10-K.. We are subject to stringent capital adequacy and liquidity requirements and our failure to meet these would adversely affect our financial condition.. We, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must satisfy various and substantial capital and liquidity requirements, subject to qualitative and quantitative review and assessment by our regulators. Regulatory capital and liquidity requirements limit how we use our capital and manage our balance sheet, and can restrict our ability to pay dividends or to make stock repurchases.. Additionally, our regulatory requirements increase as our size increases. We become subject to enhanced capital and/or liquidity requirements after our consolidated assets exceed $250 billion or our on-balance sheet foreign exposure exceeds $10 billion, and our regulators may expect us to begin voluntarily complying with those requirements as we approach that size.. Market Risks. The monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies significantly impact the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They can also materially affect the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities, hedging instruments such as swaps, and servicing rights. Federal Reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which can in turn result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is also difficult to predict.. Additionally, certain aspects of recent U.S. federal income tax reform could have a negative impact on our business. The 2017 Tax Act limited or eliminated certain income tax deductions, such as the net business interest expense deduction, the home mortgage interest deduction, and the deduction of interest on home equity loans. The limitation or elimination of. 8. these deductions, especially those that limit or eliminate the deductibility of interest paid on loans, could adversely affect demand for certain types of our products, such as home equity loans.. Our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions, and a deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition.. We generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we provide, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer and wholesale businesses. These businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the U.S. economy. Although the U.S. economy has continued to gradually improve from the severely depressed levels experienced during the last economic recession, economic growth has been uneven. In addition, financial uncertainty stemming from changes in oil and commodity prices, a strong U.S. dollar, U.S. debt and budget matters, significant central bank stimulus, a changing interest rate environment in the U.S., geopolitical turmoil, uncertainty with regards to the U.S. political landscape and impacts of any changes in law, regulation, and policy, deceleration of economic activity in other large countries, as well as the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery.. A prolonged period of slow growth in the U.S. economy or in any regional markets that we serve, any deterioration in economic conditions or the financial markets resulting from the above matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the economic recovery, could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. Also, any further deterioration in global economic conditions could slow the recovery of the domestic economy, negatively impact the Company's borrowers or other counterparties that have direct or indirect exposure to these regions, and/or contribute to a flat yield curve. Such global disruptions can undermine investor confidence, cause a contraction of available credit, or create market volatility, any of which could have significant adverse effects on the Company's businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, even if the Company's direct exposure to the affected region is limited.. Further, if unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease, we would expect to incur higher charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also C&I and CRE loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may suffer from deteriorating economic conditions. The ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur higher credit losses.. A deterioration in business and economic conditions may also erode consumer and investor confidence levels and/or result in a lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, potentially reducing our interest income. It also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including. our wealth management, investment advisory, trading, and investment banking businesses. We earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. Because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock or fixed income market prices or client preferences could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. Poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets would likely adversely affect our capital markets-related businesses.. Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expenses, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity.. Market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. Interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and MVE to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the nature of the loans and interest-bearing liabilities on our balance sheet. We are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, AFS investment portfolio, residential MSRs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits measured at fair value. Our ALCO meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. The policies established by ALCO are reviewed and approved by our Board. See additional discussion of changes in market interest rates in the \"Market Risk Management\" section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K.. Given our business mix, and the fact that most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. In addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways:. • The yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways; or. • The value of certain on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments that we hold could change adversely.. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities, and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. Net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin (the difference between the yield we earn on our earning assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding) and the amount of earning assets we hold. Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings.. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. When interest rates. 9. rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract. Higher interest rates may also tend to result in lower mortgage production income and elevated charge-offs in certain segments of the loan portfolio, such as CRE, leveraged lending, credit card, and home equity.. The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. We hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. As noted above, if economic conditions deteriorate, we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our interest income. In addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons.. Changes in the slope of the yield curve could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. The interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. This could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. We discuss these topics in greater detail in the \"Enterprise Risk Management\" and \"Net Interest Income/Margin\" sections of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K.. We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. These hedges may not be effective and may cause volatility or losses in our net interest income.. Interest rates on our outstanding financial instruments might be subject to change based on regulatory developments, which could adversely affect our revenue, expenses, and the value of those financial instruments.. LIBOR and certain other \"benchmarks\" are the subject of recent national, international, and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. These reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, publicly announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. It is unclear whether, at that time, LIBOR will cease to exist or if new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established. If LIBOR ceases to exist or if the methods of calculating LIBOR change from current methods for any reason, interest rates on our floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to LIBOR rates, as well as the revenue and expenses associated with those financial instruments, may be adversely affected. Further, any uncertainty regarding the continued use and reliability of LIBOR as a benchmark interest rate could adversely affect the value of our floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments tied to LIBOR rates.. Our earnings may be affected by volatility in mortgage production and servicing revenues, and by changes in. carrying values of our servicing assets and mortgages held for sale due to changes in interest rates.. We earn revenue from originating mortgage loans and from fees for servicing loans. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations.. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions, and thus, the fair value of our residential MSRs. A servicing right is the right to service a loan (collect principal, interest, and escrow amounts) for a fee. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our residential MSRs can decrease. We regularly evaluate the fair value of our residential MSRs and any related hedges, and any net decrease in the fair value reduces the fair value of the MSR asset, which in turn reduce earnings in the period in which the fair value reduction occurs.. Similarly, we measure at fair value mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. Similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. For example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. For additional information, see the \"Enterprise Risk Management - Other Market Risk\" and \"Critical Accounting Policies\" sections of Item 7, MD&A, and Note 9, \"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. We use financial instruments, including derivatives, to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of mortgage loans held for sale and the fair value of residential MSRs, exclusive of decay. These hedges may not be effective and may cause volatility, or losses, in our net interest income, mortgage production and mortgage servicing income. We generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring and re-balancing. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR, or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. We could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge interest rate risk. For additional information, see Note 17, \"Derivative Financial Instruments,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. Disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity.. In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. Other sources of contingency funding available to us include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, FHLB capacity, and borrowings from the Federal Reserve discount window. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties. 10. participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of any of our debt ratings, may adversely affect our funding costs and our ability to raise funding and, in turn, our liquidity.. Credit Risks. We are subject to credit risk.. When we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or if our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. The credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including about how economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify.. We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling real estate or commodity prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. As an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments.. Also, to the extent we increase our consumer credit portfolio, we may be subject to greater risk than we have experienced in the past since such loans typically are unsecured and may be subject to greater fraud risk to the extent such loans are originated online.. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at December 31, 2017, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings and potentially capital. For additional information, see the \"Risk Management - Credit Risk Management\" and \"Critical Accounting Policies - Allowance for Credit Losses\" sections of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K.. We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral.. Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions.. Deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in which we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. For additional information, see the \"Loans,\" \"Allowance for Credit Losses,\" \"Risk Management - Credit Risk Management,\" and \"Critical Accounting Policies - Allowance for Credit Losses\" sections of Item 7, MD&A, and Notes 6 and 7, \"Loans\" and \"Allowance for Credit Losses,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. Liquidity Risks. We rely on the mortgage secondary market and GSEs for some of our liquidity.. We sell most of the mortgage loans that we originate to reduce our credit risk and to provide funding for additional loans. We rely on GSEs to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. Investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, resulting in decreased origination of non-conforming loans, which reduces our revenue. When we retain a loan, not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan, but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. A persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that GSEs will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). Proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. The extent and timing of any such regulatory reform of the housing finance market and the GSEs, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain.. Loss of customer deposits could increase our funding costs.. We rely heavily on bank deposits as a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. We compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Also, clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits if clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns. When clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs. Clients typically move money from bank deposits to alternatives during a rising interest rate environment, an environment that the U.S. is currently experiencing and one that is expected to continue over the medium-term. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income.. Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.. The rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including. 11. conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. Credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence our funding costs. A credit downgrade might also affect our ability to attract or retain deposits from commercial and corporate customers and our ability to conduct derivatives business with certain clients and counterparties and could trigger obligations by us to make cash payments to certain clients and counterparties. See the \"Liquidity Risk Management\" section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K.. Legal Risks. We are subject to litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results.. From time to time we are subject to litigation in the course of our business. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. Both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increased as a result of the Great Recession. The outcome of some of these cases is uncertain.. We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We may incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For additional information, see Note 19, \"Contingencies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.. We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. In addition to fines and penalties, we may suffer other negative consequences from regulatory violations including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the GSEs and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations.. Further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to. regulations issued by OFAC that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. Additionally, federal regulators have pursued financial institutions with emerging theories of recovery under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (\"FIRREA\"). Courts may uphold significant additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses.. Other Business Risks. We are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, or borrower fraud, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.. We originate and often sell mortgage loans. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. An increase in the number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers related to representations and warranties on loans sold could result in an increase in the amount of losses for loan repurchases.. Also, the Company bears a risk of loss of up to one-third of the incurred losses resulting from borrower defaults for multi-family commercial mortgage loans that the Company sells to Fannie Mae (and that Pillar sold to Fannie Mae prior to SunTrust's acquisition of Pillar). See the discussion of \"Commercial Mortgage Loan Loss Share Guarantee\" in Note 16, \"Guarantees,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information.. In addition to repurchase claims from the GSEs, we have received indemnification claims from, and in some cases, have been sued by, non-GSE purchasers of our loans. These claims allege that we sold loans that failed to conform to statements regarding the quality of the mortgage loans sold, the manner in which the loans were originated and underwritten, and the compliance of the loans with state and federal law. See additional discussion in Note 16, \"Guarantees,\" and Note 19, \"Contingencies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. We face risks as a servicer of loans.. We act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering. 12. alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. Generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. However, GSEs can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. Further, the CFPB has implemented national servicing standards which have increased the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. In addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations. Also, as a servicer, we advance expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect.. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, or gross negligence. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we experience increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve.. We also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily GSEs. Typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from GSE service levels. In most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. Additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. While the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. See additional discussion in Note 16, \"Guarantees,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. Consumers and small businesses may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income.. Technology, \"FinTech\" start-ups, increased use of peer-to-peer and other technology-based lenders, and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions and obtain certain loan products without banks. For example, consumers and small businesses can pay bills, transfer funds, and borrow money without banks. This could result in the loss of fee income, the loss of client deposits, and consumer and small business loan balances and the income generated from those deposits and loans.. We have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks.. We are a diversified financial services company, which we consider a positive in that it may enhance our growth prospects and may reduce our overall volatility. However, this diversity subjects our earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties than if we were a less diversified company. Other businesses in addition to banking that we operate include investment banking, securities underwriting and market making, loan syndications, investment management and advice, and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through our subsidiaries. These businesses entail significant market, operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations.. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.. As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. The reputation of the financial services industry, in general, has been damaged as a result of the most recent financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues and recent sales-practices scandals. Negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, a breach of client information, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. Actual or alleged conduct by another financial institution can result in negative public opinion about the financial services industry in general and, as a result, adversely affect us.. We may face more intense scrutiny of our sales, training, and incentive compensation practices.. We face increased scrutiny of our consumer sales practices, training practices, incentive compensation design and governance, and quality assurance and customer complaint resolution practices. Although we have invested significant resources enhancing these processes in recent years, there can be no assurance that our processes or their results will meet regulatory standards or expectations. Findings from self-identified or regulatory reviews may require responsive actions, including increased investments in compliance systems and personnel, or the payment of fines, penalties, increased regulatory assessments, or client redress, and may increase legal or reputational risk exposures.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure, such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services. 13. provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. Further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures, and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.. Competition in the financial services industry is intense and we could lose business or suffer margin declines as a result.. We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative, regulatory, and technological changes, and from continued consolidation. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that have elected to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. These new competitors have significantly changed the competitive environment in which we conduct business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability.. We continually encounter technological change and must effectively develop and implement new technology.. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. We have invested in technology and connectivity to automate functions previously performed manually, to facilitate the ability of customers to engage in financial transactions, and otherwise to enhance the customer experience with respect to our products and services. On the retail side, this has included developments such as more sophisticated ATMs and expanded access to banking transactions through the internet, smart phones, tablets and other remote devices. This has allowed us to better serve our clients and to reduce costs. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using. technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands, including demands for faster and more secure payment services, to create efficiencies in our operations, and to integrate those offerings with legacy platforms or to update those legacy platforms. A failure to maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to technology, whether because we fail to anticipate customer expectations or because our technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not rolled out in a timely manner, may cause us to lose market share or incur additional expense.. Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt products and services to evolving market and industry standards. The widespread adoption of new technologies has required, and likely will continue to require, us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. In addition, there is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability.. We have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits.. We have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services, and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. We may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. As a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or BHC. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management,. 14. compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. We cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. Consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it.. We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer.. Our success depends, to a large degree, on the continued services of executive officers and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. We generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of our executive officers or other key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these persons and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, our business could be adversely impacted.. We may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of changes in the marketplace, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies.. Our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute our business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. Further, in June 2010, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. This regulation significantly affects the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation. Additionally, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the SEC have jointly proposed rules which affect incentive compensation. These rules, if finalized, may adversely affect us by imposing costs and restrictions on certain of our businesses which are not imposed on non-bank competitors.. Other Risks. Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.. Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk,. credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, reputational risk, and legal, model and compliance risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as risks may exist, or develop in the future, that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. The most recent financial crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.. Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.. Our controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, due to certain inherent limitations. These limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and/or the restatement of previously filed financial statements.. We are at risk of increased losses from fraud.. Criminals committing fraud increasingly are using more sophisticated techniques and in some cases are part of larger criminal rings, which allow them to be more effective.. Fraudulent activity has taken many forms and escalates as more tools for accessing financial services emerge, such as real-time payments. Fraud schemes are broad and continuously evolving and include such things as debit card/credit card fraud, check fraud, mechanical devices attached to ATM machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information, or impersonation of our clients through the use of falsified or stolen credentials. Additionally, an individual or business entity may properly identify themselves, yet seek to establish a business relationship for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. An emerging type of fraud even involves the creation of synthetic identification in which fraudsters \"create\" individuals for the purpose of perpetrating fraud. Further, in addition to fraud committed against us, we may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. Increased deployment of technologies, such as chip card technology, defray and reduce aspects of fraud; however, criminals are turning to other sources to steal personally identifiable information, such as unaffiliated healthcare providers and. 15. government entities, in order to impersonate the consumer to commit fraud. Many of these data compromises have been widely reported in the media. Further, as a result of the increased sophistication of fraud activity, we have increased our spending on systems and controls to detect and prevent fraud. This will result in continued ongoing investments in the future.. Our operational and communications systems and infrastructure may fail or may be the subject of a breach or cyber-attack that, if successful, could adversely affect our business and disrupt business continuity.. We depend on our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions and to communicate with clients and other institutions on a continuous basis. As client, industry, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns, whether as a result of events beyond our control or otherwise.. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; occurrences of employee error, fraud, or malfeasance; and, as described below, cyber-attacks.. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our operations and communications may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our systems and infrastructure that support our businesses and clients. While we continue to evolve and modify our business continuity plans, there can be no assurance in an escalating threat environment that they will be effective in avoiding disruption and business impacts. Our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all resulting losses, and the cost to obtain adequate coverage may increase for us or the industry.. Security risks for financial institutions such as ours have dramatically increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication, resources and activities of hackers, terrorists, activists, organized crime, and other external parties, including nation state actors. In addition, to access our products and services, clients may use devices or software that are beyond our control environment, which may provide additional avenues for attackers to gain access to confidential information. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and clients' devices and software may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss, change, or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information (including personal identifying information of individuals), or. otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. Other U.S. financial institutions and financial service companies have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, including attempts to shut down access to their networks and systems in an attempt to extract compensation from them to regain control. Financial institutions, including SunTrust, have experienced distributed denial-of-service attacks, a sophisticated and targeted attack intended to disable or degrade internet service or to sabotage systems.. We and others in our industry are regularly the subject of attempts by attackers to gain unauthorized access to our networks, systems, and data, or to obtain, change, or destroy confidential data (including personal identifying information of individuals) through a variety of means, including computer viruses, malware, and phishing. In the future, these attacks may result in unauthorized individuals obtaining access to our confidential information or that of our clients, or otherwise accessing, damaging, or disrupting our systems or infrastructure.. We are continuously developing and enhancing our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data, and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access. This continued development and enhancement will require us to expend additional resources, including to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities that may be detected. Despite our ongoing investments in security resources, talent, and business practices, we are unable to assure that any security measures will be effective.. If our systems and infrastructure were to be breached, damaged, or disrupted, or if we were to experience a loss of our confidential information or that of our clients, we could be subject to serious negative consequences, including disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, a loss of trust in us on the part of our clients, vendors or other counterparties, client attrition, reimbursement or other costs, increased compliance costs, significant litigation exposure and legal liability, or regulatory fines, penalties or intervention. Any of these could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial condition, and/or our share price.. A disruption, breach, or failure in the operational systems and infrastructure of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could adversely affect our business.. Third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. These third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, central clearing counterparties, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. In particular, operating our business requires us to provide access to client and other sensitive Company information to our contractors, consultants, and other third parties and authorized entities. Controls and oversight mechanisms are in place that are designed to limit access to this information and protect it. 16. from unauthorized disclosure, theft, and disruption. However, control systems and policies pertaining to system access are subject to errors in design, oversight failure, software failure, human error, intentional subversion or other compromise resulting in theft, error, loss, or inappropriate use of information or systems to commit fraud, cause embarrassment to us or our executives or to gain competitive advantage. In addition, regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. If a disruption, breach, or failure in the system or infrastructure of any third party with whom we do business occurred, our business may be materially and adversely affected in a manner similar to if our own systems or infrastructure had been compromised. As has been the case in other major system events in the U.S., our systems and infrastructure may also be attacked, compromised, or damaged as a result of, or as the intended target of, any disruption, breach, or failure in the systems or infrastructure of any third party with whom we do business.. Natural disasters and other catastrophic events could have a material adverse impact on our operations or our financial condition and results.. The occurrence of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados, winter storms, wildfires, earthquakes, mudslides, floods, and other large scale catastrophes, could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We have significant operations and customers along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts as well as other regions of the U.S., which could be adversely impacted by hurricanes, tornados, and other severe weather in those areas. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on us in that such events could materially disrupt our operations or the ability or willingness of our customers to access the financial services that we offer, including adverse impacts on our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral that we hold. These events could reduce our earnings and cause volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our operations and communications may be adversely affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events and there can be no assurance that such business continuity plans will be effective.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearing counterparties, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or. the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. If the information that we rely on is not accurate or complete, our decisions about extending credit or entering into other transactions with clients or counterparties could be adversely affected, and we could suffer defaults, credit losses, or other negative consequences as a result.. Our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operation. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.. Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operation. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, including the value of goodwill, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, or are adjusted periodically, we may experience material losses.. Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the. 17. uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. We discuss these topics in greater detail in the \"Critical Accounting Policies\" section of Item 7, MD&A, and Note 1, \"Significant Accounting Policies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. Further, from time to time, the FASB and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. We discuss recently issued accounting pronouncements, including both those which we have already adopted in full or in part, and those which we will adopt in the future, at Note 1, \"Significant Accounting Policies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.. Depressed market values for our stock and adverse economic conditions sustained over a period of time may require us to write down all or some portion of our goodwill.. Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, then the reporting unit's goodwill is not impaired. The fair value of a reporting unit is impacted by the reporting unit's expected financial performance and susceptibility to adverse economic, regulatory, and legislative changes. The estimated fair values of the individual reporting units are assessed for reasonableness by reviewing a variety of indicators, including comparing these estimated fair values to our market capitalization over a reasonable period of time. While this comparison provides some relative market information regarding the estimated fair value of the reporting units, it is not determinative and needs to be evaluated in the context of the current economic environment. However, significant and sustained declines in our market capitalization could be an indication of potential goodwill impairment. See the \"Critical Accounting Policies\" section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K for additional information.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price can be volatile.. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including, but not limited to:. • variations in our quarterly results. • changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry. • governmental and regulatory legislation or actions. • issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future. • changes in dividends and capital returns. • the addition or departure of key personnel. • cyclical fluctuations. • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock. • announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures. • activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as cyber or terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. For the above and other reasons, the market price of our securities may not accurately reflect the underlying value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision.. We might not pay dividends on our stock.. Holders of our stock are only entitled to receive such dividends that our Board declares out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our stock, we are not required to do so.. The Federal Reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions generally would not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. As a result, any increase in our dividend requires a non-objection from the Federal Reserve.. Additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements that we entered into with the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP will increase to the extent that we pay dividends on our common stock prior to December 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the CPP. Specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements.. Our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries or other investments could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends.. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries and other investments. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not. 18. sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common shareholders.. Certain banking laws and certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may have an anti-takeover effect.. Provisions of federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or depository institution, including shares of our common stock, generally creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquirer \"controls\" the bank holding company or depository institution, and thus, unless the acquirer is able to rebut this presumption, it would be subject to various laws and regulations that bank. holding companies are subject to. Also, a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including our bank.. There also are provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, such as limitations on the ability to call a special meeting of our shareholders, that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. In addition, our Board will be authorized under our amended and restated articles of incorporation to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the rights, terms, conditions, and privileges of such preferred stock, without shareholder approval. These provisions may effectively inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination.. 19"
