[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information we include in this report and the additional information in the other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the \"SEC\" or the \"Commission\"). These risks may result in material harm to our business, our financial condition, and results of operations. In this eventuality, the market price of our common stock may decline and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We are dependent on the commercial success of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR.. A substantial amount of our resources are focused on expanding the revenue generated by our approved products in the U.S., Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR.. Our ability to generate significant product revenue from sales of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR in the near term will depend on, among other things, our ability to:. <U+0095> Defend our patents and intellectual property from competition, including generics;    <U+0095> Maintain commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers;    <U+0095> Produce, through a validated process, sufficiently large quantities of inventory of our products to meet demand;     <U+0095> Continue to maintain a wide variety of internal sales, distribution and marketing capabilities sufficient to sustain revenue growth;     <U+0095> Continue to maintain and grow widespread acceptance of our products from physicians, health care payors, patients, pharmacists and the medical community;    <U+0095> Properly price and obtain adequate reimbursement coverage of these products by governmental authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other third-party payors;    <U+0095> Maintain compliance with ongoing FDA labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping, safety and other post-market requirements;    <U+0095> Obtain approval from the FDA to expand the labeling of our approved products for additional indications;     <U+0095> Adequately protect against and effectively respond to any claims by holders of patents and other intellectual property rights that our products infringe their rights; and    <U+0095> Adequately protect against and effectively respond to any unanticipated adverse effects or unfavorable publicity that develops with respect to our products, as well as respond to the emergence of new or existing competitive products, which may be proven to be more clinically effective and cost-effective.. There are no guarantees that we will be successful in completing these tasks. We will need to continue investing substantial financial and management resources to maintain our commercial sales and marketing infrastructure and to recruit and train qualified marketing, sales and other personnel. In addition, we have expressed certain long term revenue expectations. If we cannot achieve those revenue expectations with respect to Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, this could result in a material adverse impact on our anticipated revenue, earnings and liquidity.. 21. Table of Contents. Increases in sales of Oxtellar XR or Trokendi XR may slow for a variety of reasons, including competing products or safety issues. If we are not successful in broadening the current commercial acceptance of either Oxtellar XR or Trokendi XR, our business would be harmed.. Any increase in sales of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR will be dependent on several factors, including our ability to educate physicians and to increase physician awareness and acceptance of the benefits and cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products. Our ability to increase market acceptance of any of our products or gain market acceptance of approved product candidates among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community will depend on a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> Acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy;    <U+0095> Relative convenience and ease of administration;    <U+0095> The prevalence, nature, and severity of any adverse side effects;    <U+0095> Availability of alternative treatments; and    <U+0095> Pricing and cost effectiveness.. In addition, Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR will be subject to continual review by the FDA. We cannot assure that newly discovered or reported safety issues will not arise. With the use of any newly marketed drug by a wider patient population, serious AEs may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, cause us to modify how we market our approved products, subject us to substantial liabilities and adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. In the event of a withdrawal of either Oxtellar XR or Trokendi XR from the market, our revenues would decline significantly and our business would be seriously harmed and could fail.. We are involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our patents. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time consuming. For example, we are involved in several matters related to Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letters that we have received in connection with our products and our collaborators' products. In connection with an ANDA, a Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letter notifies the FDA that one or more patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book is alleged to be invalid, unenforceable or will not be infringed by the ANDA product. These matters include claims related to Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, and are discussed in Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.. In any infringement proceeding, including the foregoing, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent application at risk of not issuing.. Interference proceedings brought by the USPTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents and patent applications or those of our collaborators. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if a prevailing party does not offer us a license on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail. Even if successful, litigation may result in substantial costs and distraction of our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our collaborators, misappropriation of. 22. Table of Contents. our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation.. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceeding or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, or perceive that the presence or continuation of these cases creates a level of uncertainty regarding our ability to increase or sustain products sales, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that our product candidates will not be subject to the same risks.. We are dependent on obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates and for additional indications for existing products.. Our ability to successfully commercialize any of our product candidates and to obtain additional indications for existing products will depend on, among other things, our ability to:. <U+0095> Successfully complete our clinical trials;    <U+0095> Receive marketing approvals from the FDA;    <U+0095> Produce, through a validated process, sufficiently large quantities of our product candidates to permit successful clinical development and commercialization;    <U+0095> Establish commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers;    <U+0095> Build and maintain strong sales, distribution and marketing capabilities sufficient to commercially launch our product candidates;     <U+0095> Secure acceptance of our product candidates from physicians, health care payors, pharmacies, wholesalers, patients and the medical community; and    <U+0095> Manage our spending as costs and expenses increase due to undertaking clinical trials and commercially launching product candidates.. There are no guarantees that we will be successful in completing these tasks. If we are unable to successfully complete these tasks, we may not be able to commercialize any of our other product candidates in a timely manner, or at all, in which case we may be unable to maximize our revenues. In addition, if we experience unanticipated delays or problems, development costs could substantially increase and our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected.. Our clinical trials for our product candidates may fail to demonstrate acceptable levels of safety, efficacy or any other requirements, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval.. We may be unable to sufficiently demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates to obtain regulatory approval. We must demonstrate, with substantial evidence gathered in well-controlled studies, to the satisfaction of the relevant regulatory authorities that each product candidate is safe and effective for use in the target indication. We may be required to conduct or perform additional studies or trials to adequately demonstrate safety and efficacy, which could prevent or significantly delay our receipt of regulatory approval, increase clinical costs, and, ultimately delay the commercialization of that product candidate.. 23. Table of Contents. Any product candidate that we in-license or acquire may require additional development prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities.. In addition, the results from the trials that we have completed for our product candidates may not be replicated in future trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced development, even after promising results in earlier trials. If our product candidates are not shown to be safe and effective, our clinical development programs might be terminated.. Delays or failures in the completion of clinical development of our product candidates would increase our costs and delay or limit our ability to generate revenues.. Delays or failures in the completion of clinical trials for our product candidates could significantly raise our product development costs. We do not know whether current or planned trials will be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement and completion of clinical development can be delayed or halted for a number of reasons, including:. <U+0095> Difficulties obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial or complying with conditions imposed by a regulatory authority regarding the scope or term of a clinical trial;    <U+0095> Delays in reaching or failure to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CRO trial sites and investigators, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly;    <U+0095> Insufficient or inadequate supply or quantity of a product candidate for use in trials;    <U+0095> Difficulties obtaining Investigational Research Board (IRB) or ethics committee approval to conduct a trial at a prospective site;     <U+0095> Challenges recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials for a variety of reasons, including competition from other programs for the treatment of similar conditions;    <U+0095> Severe or unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by patients in a clinical trial;    <U+0095> Difficulty retaining patients who have enrolled in a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues;    <U+0095> Clinical holds; or    <U+0095> Clinical trials may be delayed as a result of ambiguous or negative interim results.. Clinical trials may be suspended or terminated by us, at a trial site by a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) or ethics committee overseeing the clinical trial, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> Failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the trial protocols;     <U+0095> Observations during inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities that ultimately result in the imposition of a clinical hold;    <U+0095> Unforeseen safety issues; or    <U+0095> Lack of adequate funding to continue the trial.. 24. Table of Contents. Failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or the trial protocols may result in the inability to use the trial data to support product approval. Changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur, and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs or ethics committees for reexamination, which may adversely impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial.. In addition, many of the factors that cause or lead to a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate any of our clinical trials, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates may be materially harmed, and our commercial prospects and ability to generate product revenues diminished.. Our products and product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other characteristics that limit their commercial potential or delay or prevent their regulatory approval.. Undesirable side effects caused by any of our product candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt development and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, and result in potential product liability claims. Undesirable side effects caused by any of our products could cause regulatory authorities to temporarily or permanently halt product sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business as a whole.. Immediate release oxcarbazepine and topiramate products, which use the same APIs as Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, are known to cause various side effects, including but not limited to dizziness, paresthesia, headaches, cognitive deficiencies such as memory loss and speech impediment, digestive problems, somnolence, double vision, gingival enlargement, nausea, weight gain, oral malformation birth defects, visual field defects, infant small for gestational age and fatigue. The use of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR may cause similar side effects as compared to their reference products, or may cause additional or different side effects.. Products that were on the market and used the same API as our product candidates, SPN-810 and SPN-812, were known to cause various side effects, including but not limited to drowsiness, depression, hyperactivity, euphoria, extrapyramidal reactions, nausea, headache, diarrhea, vomiting, sleep difficulties, agitation, exacerbation of anxiety, sleepiness , mouth dryness, tachycardia, constipation, and urinary difficulties. The labels for those products also included precautions and warnings about, among other things, tardive dyskinesia, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, elevation of prolactin levels, convulsive events in patients that are treated for or have a prior history of epilepsy, inhibition of hepatic metabolism of certain drugs, risk of suicide before antidepressant clinical improvement, need for monitoring patients with cardiac, hepatic or renal insufficiency, or patients at risk for angle-closure glaucoma. The use of SPN-810 and SPN-812 may cause similar side effects as compared to these reference products, or may cause additional or different side effects.. If our products cause side effects or if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval, and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by our products or product candidates, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. <U+0095> Regulatory authorities may withdraw approval of the product candidate or otherwise require us to take the approved product off the market;     <U+0095> Regulatory authorities may require additional warnings, or a narrowing of the indication, on the product label;     <U+0095> We may be required to create a medication guide outlining the proper use of the medication and risks of side effects, for distribution to patients;. 25. Table of Contents. <U+0095> We may be required to modify the product in some way;    <U+0095> Regulatory authorities may require us to conduct additional clinical trials or costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product;    <U+0095> Sales of approved products may decrease significantly;    <U+0095> We could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; or    <U+0095> Our reputation may suffer.. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining the commercial success of our products and product candidates and could substantially increase commercialization costs.. We may not be able to effectively market and sell our product candidates, if approved, in the U.S.. We plan on building our sales and marketing capabilities in the U.S. to commercialize our product candidates, if approved. We will build such capabilities by investing significant amounts of financial and management resources. Furthermore, the cost of establishing and maintaining marketing and sales capabilities may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any of our product candidates.. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales and marketing capabilities for our product candidates or are unable to do so in a timely manner, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenues from these product candidates to be profitable.. Final marketing approval of any of our product candidates or additional indications for existing products by the FDA or other regulatory authorities may be delayed, limited, or denied, any of which would adversely affect our ability to generate operating revenues.. Our business depends on the successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. We are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the U.S. until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA, or, in any foreign jurisdiction, from the requisite authority. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. We cannot predict whether or when we will obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our product candidates and we cannot, therefore, predict the timing of any future revenues from these product candidates.. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate or a prior approval supplement for many reasons. For example, the FDA:. <U+0095> Could reject or delay the marketing application for an NCE;    <U+0095> Could determine that we cannot rely on Section 505(b)(2) for any of our product candidates;    <U+0095> Could determine that the information provided by us was inadequate, contained clinical deficiencies or otherwise failed to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for any indication;    <U+0095> May not find the data from bioequivalence studies and/or clinical trials sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or to obtain marketing approval in the U.S., including any findings that the clinical and other benefits of our product candidates outweigh their safety risks;    <U+0095> May disagree with our trial design or our interpretation of data from preclinical studies, bioequivalence studies and/or clinical trials, or may change the requirements for approval even after it has reviewed and commented on the design for our trials, the outcome and measurement scale used in the trials, and the clinical protocols whether with or without a special protocol assessment process;. 26. Table of Contents. <U+0095> May determine that we have identified the wrong reference listed drug or drugs or that approval of our Section 505(b)(2) application of our product candidate is blocked by patent or non-patent exclusivity of the reference listed drug or drugs;    <U+0095> May identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we enter into agreements for the supply of raw materials, including the API or manufactured product candidates used in our product candidates, wherein those deficiencies may result in interruption in the ability to supply product;     <U+0095> May approve our product candidates for fewer or more limited indications than we request, or may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-approval clinical trials;    <U+0095> May change its approval policies or adopt new regulations; or    <U+0095> May not approve the labeling claims that we believe are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates, or may approve them with warnings and precautions that could limit the acceptance of our product candidates and their success    <U+0095> May not approve the addition of new indications to the label of our existing products.. Notwithstanding the approval of many products by the FDA pursuant to Section 505(b)(1) and 505(b)(2), over the last few years some pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA changes its interpretation of Section 505(b)(2), or if the FDA's interpretation is successfully challenged in court, this could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any Section 505(b)(2) application that we submit. Any failure to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates would significantly limit our ability to generate revenues, and any failure to obtain such approval for all of the indications and labeling claims we deem desirable could reduce our potential revenues.. We are subject to uncertainty relating to payment or reimbursement policies which, if not favorable for our products or product candidates, could hinder or prevent our commercial success.. Our ability or our collaborators' ability to successfully commercialize our products, including Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR and our product candidates, will depend in part on the coverage and reimbursement levels set by governmental authorities, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other third-party payors. As a threshold for coverage and reimbursement, third-party payors generally require that drug products be approved for marketing by the FDA. Third-party payors also are increasingly challenging the effectiveness of and prices charged for medical products and services. Government authorities and these third-party payors have attempted to control costs, in some instances, by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications or encouraging the use of lower-cost generic products. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for any of the products that we develop and, if reimbursement is available, the level of reimbursement. Moreover, that level of reimbursement may change over time as a result of decisions made by payors. Reduced or partial payment or reduced reimbursement coverage could make our products or product candidates, including Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, less attractive to patients and prescribing physicians. We also may be required to sell our products or product candidates at a significant discount, which would adversely affect our ability to realize an appropriate return on our investment in our products or product candidates or to maintain profitability.. We expect that private insurers and managed care organizations will consider the efficacy, cost effectiveness and safety of our products or product candidates, including Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, in determining whether to approve reimbursement for such products or product candidates and at what level. Moreover, they will consider the efficacy and cost effectiveness of comparable or competitive products in making reimbursement decisions for our products. Because each third-party payor individually approves payment or reimbursement, obtaining these approvals can be a time. 27. Table of Contents. consuming and expensive process that could require us to provide scientific or clinical support for the use of each of our products or product candidates separately to each third-party payor. In some cases, it could take several months or years before a particular private insurer or managed care organization reviews a particular product. We may ultimately be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage. Our competitors may have larger organizations, as well as existing business relationships with third-party payors relating to their products. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we do not receive approval for reimbursement of our products or product candidates from private insurers on a timely or satisfactory basis. Our products and product candidates may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products or product candidates on a profitable basis. Our business would also be adversely affected if private insurers, managed care organizations, the Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payors limit the indications for which our products or product candidates will be reimbursed.. In some foreign jurisdictions, particularly Canada and Europe, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to strict governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. To obtain favorable reimbursement for the indications sought or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products or product candidates, if approved, to other available therapies. If reimbursement for our products or product candidates is unavailable in any country in which reimbursement is sought, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed, and could be unprofitable.. In addition, many managed care organizations negotiate the price of products and establish formularies which establish pricing and reimbursement levels. Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the managed care organization's patient population. If our products or product candidates are not included within an adequate number of formularies or at adequate payment or reimbursement levels, or if those policies increasingly favor generic products, our market share and gross margins could be negatively affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial condition.. We expect to experience pricing pressures due to potential healthcare reforms discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as due to cost control measures instituted by health maintenance organizations.. Our failure to develop successfully and market our product candidates would impair our ability to grow.. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to develop and market additional product candidates. We may spend several years completing our development of a particular current or future internal product candidate, during which process we can experience failure at any stage. The product candidates to which we allocate our resources may not be commercially successful. In addition, because our internal research capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical companies, academic scientists and other researchers to sell or license products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify, select, discover and acquire promising pharmaceutical product candidates and approved products.. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquiring a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the license or the product candidate or approved product. We have limited resources, including financial resources, to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and to integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of. 28. Table of Contents. such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all.. In addition, future acquisitions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:. <U+0095> Exposure to unknown liabilities;    <U+0095> Disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention to develop acquired products or technologies;     <U+0095> Incurring substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities or depletion of cash to pay for acquisitions;     <U+0095> Incurring higher than expected acquisition, integration, and operating costs;    <U+0095> Difficulty in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel;     <U+0095> Impairing relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and     <U+0095> An inability to retain and/or motivate key employees of any acquired businesses.. We rely on and will continue to rely on outsourcing arrangements for certain of our activities, including clinical research of our product candidates, manufacturing of our compounds and product candidates beyond Phase II clinical trials and the manufacturing of our commercial products.. We rely on outsourcing arrangements for some of our activities, including manufacturing, preclinical and clinical research, data collection and analysis, and electronic submission of regulatory filings. We may have limited control over these third parties and we cannot guarantee that they will perform their obligations in an effective, competent and timely manner. Our reliance on third parties, including third-party clinical research organizations (CROs) and CMOs, entails risks including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> Non-compliance by third parties with regulatory and quality control standards;    <U+0095> Sanctions imposed by regulatory authorities if compounds supplied or manufactured by a third party supplier or manufacturer fail to comply with applicable regulatory standards;    <U+0095> Possible breach of the agreements by the CROs or CMOs because of factors beyond our control or the insolvency or other financial difficulties of any of these third parties, labor unrest, natural disasters or other factors adversely affecting their ability to conduct their business; and    <U+0095> Termination or non-renewal of an agreement by a third party, at a time that is inconvenient for us, for reasons not entirely under our control.. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of any of our products or product candidates beyond Phase II clinical trials, nor do we have plans in the foreseeable future to develop our own manufacturing operations for Phase III clinical materials or commercial products. We currently depend on third-party CMOs for all of our required raw materials and drug substance for our preclinical research and clinical trials. For Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, we currently rely on single source suppliers for raw materials, including API, and rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers for the final commercial products. If any of these vendors are unable to perform their obligations to us, including due to violations of the FDA's requirements, our ability to meet regulatory requirements, projected timelines, necessary quality standards for successful manufacture of our development and commercialization product would be adversely affected. Further, if we were required to change vendors, it could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs. Accordingly, the loss of any of our current or future third-party manufacturers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. 29. Table of Contents. We have entered into supply agreements for both Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR with leading CMOs headquartered in North America for the manufacture of the final commercial products. However, there is a risk that the counterparties to these agreements will not perform their respective obligations or will terminate these agreements. We could also become embroiled in disputes with third party manufacturers for Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR regarding the terms of our agreements, the performance of a CMO or intellectual property rights, any of which could disrupt the sales of our products and adversely affect our reputation and product revenue. In addition, we do not have contractual relationships for the manufacture of commercial supplies for all of our product candidates. The number of third-party manufacturers with the expertise, required regulatory approvals and facilities to manufacture drug substance and final drug product on a commercial scale is limited. Therefore, we may not be able to enter into such arrangements with third-party manufacturers in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. Failure to secure such contractual arrangements would harm the commercial prospects for our product candidates. Our costs could increase and our ability to generate revenues could be delayed.. If other versions of extended or controlled release oxcarbazepine or topiramate are approved and successfully commercialized, our business could be materially harmed.. Third parties have and may receive approval to manufacture and market their own versions of extended release oxcarbazepine or topiramate AEDs in the U.S. For example, Upsher-Smith launched Qudexy XR (extended release topiramate) and its own authorized generic, both of which compete with Trokendi XR. Since Trokendi XR was not granted marketing exclusivity by the FDA, we may not be able to prevent the submission or approval of another full NDA for any competitor's extended or controlled release topiramate product candidate. However, we do have the right to defend our products against third parties who may infringe or are infringing our patents.. In addition, we are aware of companies who are marketing modified-release oxcarbazepine products outside of the U.S., such as Apydan, which is developed by Desitin Arzneimittel GmbH and requires twice-daily administration. If companies with modified-release oxcarbazepine products outside of the U.S. pursue or obtain approval of their products within the U.S., such competing products may limit the potential success of Oxtellar XR in the U.S., and our business and growth prospects would be materially impaired. Accordingly, if any third party is successful in obtaining approval to manufacture and market its own version of extended release oxcarbazepine or topiramate in the U.S., we may not be able to recover expenses incurred in connection with the development of or prospectively realize revenues from Oxtellar XR or Trokendi XR.. If we do not obtain marketing exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may suffer.. Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, three years of marketing exclusivity may be granted for the approval of new and supplemental NDAs, including Section 505(b)(2) applications, for, among other things, new indications, dosage forms, routes of administration, strengths of an existing drug or for a new use, if the new clinical investigations that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are determined by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application. This exclusivity, which is sometimes referred to as clinical investigation exclusivity, prevents the FDA from approving an application under Section 505(b)(2) for the same conditions of use associated with the new clinical investigations before the expiration of three years from the date of approval. Such exclusivity, however, would not prevent the approval of another application if the applicant submits a Section 505(b)(1) NDA and has conducted its own adequate, well-controlled clinical trials demonstrating safety and efficacy, nor would it prevent approval of a generic product or Section 505(b)(2) product that did not incorporate the exclusivity-protected changes of the approved drug product.. Under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, newly-approved drugs and indications may also benefit from a statutory period of non-patent marketing exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments provide five-year. 30. Table of Contents. marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for an NCE, meaning that the FDA has not previously approved any other drug containing the same API, or active moiety, which is the molecule responsible for the action of the drug substance. Although protection under the Hatch-Waxman Amendments will not prevent the submission or approval of another full Section 505(b)(1) NDA, such an NDA applicant would be required to conduct its own preclinical and adequate, well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness.. While the FDA granted a three year marketing exclusivity period for Oxtellar XR, it did not grant a similar marketing exclusivity period for Trokendi XR. If we are unable to obtain marketing exclusivity for our subsequent product candidates, then our competitors may obtain approval of competing products more easily than if we had such marketing exclusivity, and our future revenues could be reduced, possibly materially.. We face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. Further, managing succession for, and retention of, key executives is critical to our success, and our failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our future performance.. We may not be able to attract or motivate qualified management and scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. If we are not able to attract and motivate necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our objectives.. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees and members of our management team could hinder our strategic planning and execution. In addition, our failure to adequately plan for succession of senior management and other key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are highly dependent on the development, regulatory, commercial and financial expertise of our management, particularly Jack A. Khattar, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Khattar has an employment agreement and other members of the senior management team have executive retention agreements, but these agreements do not guarantee the services of these executives will continue to be available to us. If we lose key members of our management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements in a timely fashion, if at all. We cannot be certain that future management transitions will not disrupt our operations or generate concern among employees and those with whom we do business.. In addition to competition for personnel, our corporate offices are located in the greater Washington D.C. metropolitan area, an area that is characterized by a high cost of living. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our Company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment efforts.. If our competitors develop or market alternatives for treatments of our target indications, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated.. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary therapeutics. We face competition from a number of sources, some of which may target the same indications as our products and product candidates, including large pharmaceutical companies, smaller pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. The availability of new products or approval for new indications for existing products may limit the demand for and the price. 31. Table of Contents. we are able to charge for any of our products. We may be unable to differentiate our products from competitive offerings. In addition to competition with our currently marketed products, we anticipate that we will face intense competition when our pipeline product candidates are approved by regulatory authorities and we begin the commercialization process for these products.. There are currently no marketed products and no known products in development for the treatment of IA in patients with ADHD, autism, or PTSD. However, the off-label use of risperidone (Risperdal) and aripiprazole (Abilify) to treat these conditions is common. These products are approved for irritability in autism which, as a result, may influence use of products to treat IA in patients with ADHD.. In addition, we are aware of several companies that have various product candidates under development for ADHD which may compete with our SPN-812 product candidate. Such companies include Sunovion, Ironshore/Highland and Otsuka.. Further new developments, including the development of other drug technologies, may render our products or product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. As a result, our products and product candidates may become obsolete before we recover expenses incurred in connection with their development or realize revenues from commercialization. Further, many competitors have substantially greater:. <U+0095> Capital resources;    <U+0095> Research and development resources and experience, including personnel and technology;    <U+0095> Drug development, clinical trial and regulatory resources and experience;    <U+0095> Sales and marketing resources and experience;    <U+0095> Manufacturing and distribution resources and experience;    <U+0095> Name recognition; and    <U+0095> Resources, experience and expertise in prosecution and enforcement of intellectual property rights.. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit or block us from developing or commercializing our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective, more useful, better tolerated, subject to fewer or less severe side effects, more widely prescribed or accepted or less costly than ours and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. If we are unable to compete effectively with the products of our competitors or if such competitors are successful in developing products that compete with any of our product candidates that are approved, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical industry may result in even more resources being concentrated at competitors. Competition may increase further as a result of advances made in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment.. Our products and our product candidates may be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. We may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements.. Even though U.S. regulatory approval has been obtained for Trokendi XR and Oxtellar XR, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on their indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for costly post-approval studies. For example, both Trokendi XR and Oxtellar XR were approved on the basis of post-approval commitments, including that we develop additional age-appropriate formulations of the drugs and conduct post-approval clinical studies in accordance with certain timelines laid out in the approval letters. Although we have made significant efforts to meet. 32. Table of Contents. these timelines, in certain cases we have been unable to meet these timelines. The commitments required the creation of new drug product formulations, which we have not been able to accomplish in the original timeline. To date, the only consequence of our failure to meet our PREA commitment deadlines has been a notation on FDA websites devoted to making the status of PREA commitments publicly known. We are also required to conduct an additional post-approval study with respect to Trokendi XR for the treatment of prophylaxis of migraine. If we do not meet our post-marketing commitments and are unable to show good cause for our inability to adhere to the timetables laid out in the approval letters, the FDA could take enforcement action against us, including withdrawal of approval. While we believe that we can show good cause for our inability to meet the timelines for our post-approval study requirements, the FDA may disagree.. Our product candidates would also be, and our approved product and our collaborators' approved products are, subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other information. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) regulations. If we, our collaborators or a regulatory authority discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including side effects that are unanticipated in severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions on that product or the manufacturer, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we or our collaborators, or our or our collaborators' approved products or product candidates, or the manufacturing facilities for our or our collaborators' approved products or product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory authority may:. <U+0095> Issue warning letters or untitled letters;    <U+0095> Impose civil or criminal penalties;    <U+0095> Suspend regulatory approval;    <U+0095> Suspend any ongoing bioequivalence and/or clinical trials;    <U+0095> Refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications filed by us;    <U+0095> Impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements, or suspension of production for a sustained period of time; or    <U+0095> Seize or detain products or require us to initiate a product recall.. In addition, our product labeling, advertising and promotion of our approved products, are subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product's approved labeling. Notwithstanding, physicians may nevertheless prescribe our products to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label, which is known as \"off label use\". The FDA and other authorities actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant sanctions. For example, on October 31, 2016 the FDA sent us an untitled letter alleging that certain marketing claims made in a promotional video for Oxtellar XR suggested that the drug was intended for uses outside its FDA-approved label. Following receipt of the untitled letter, we removed the promotional video in question and revised other promotional materials for Oxtellar XR as a precautionary measure, and FDA closed the matter. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. If we are found to have promoted off-label uses, we may be enjoined from such. 33. Table of Contents. off-label promotion and become subject to significant liability, which would have an adverse effect on our reputation, business and revenues, if any.. Further, the FDA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could affect our products or prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained, which would adversely affect our business, prospects and ability to achieve or sustain profitability.. If we fail to produce our products and product candidates in the volumes that we require on a timely basis, or fail to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical drug manufacturers, we may face delays in the development and commercialization of our products and product candidates, or be required to withdraw products from the market.. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of any of our products or for the commercial production of our product candidates, nor do we have plans to develop our own manufacturing operations for commercial products in the foreseeable future. We currently depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the supply of the APIs for our products and product candidates, including drug substance for our preclinical research and clinical trials. For Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, we currently rely on single source suppliers for raw materials, including API. We rely on single manufacturers to produce and package final dosage forms. Any future curtailment in the availability of raw materials could result in production or other delays with consequent adverse business effects. In addition, because regulatory authorities must generally approve raw material sources for pharmaceutical products, changes in raw material suppliers may result in production delays or higher raw material costs.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Pharmaceutical companies often encounter difficulties in manufacturing, particularly in scaling up production of their products. These problems include manufacturing difficulties relating to production costs and yields, quality control, stability of the product and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations. If we are unable to demonstrate stability in accordance with commercial requirements, or if our manufacturers were to encounter difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations to us, our ability to maintain or obtain FDA approval and to market our products and product candidates, respectively, would be jeopardized. In addition, any delay or interruption in producing clinical trial supplies could delay or prohibit the completion of our clinical trials, increase the costs associated with conducting our clinical trials and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense, or to terminate a trial.. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products need to comply with cGMP requirements and other requirements as enforced by the FDA, including electronic tracking and submission. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products and product candidates may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any of our products or product candidates is compromised due to failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for such product candidate or successfully commercialize such products, and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay in clinical development, regulatory submissions, approvals or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs or result in. 34. Table of Contents. our being unable to effectively commercialize our product candidates. Furthermore, if we fail to obtain the required commercial quantities on a timely basis from our suppliers and at commercially reasonable prices, we may be unable to meet demand for our approved products, and consequently lose potential revenues.. We depend on wholesalers and distributors for retail distribution of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR; if we lose any of our significant wholesalers or distributors, our business could be harmed.. The majority of our sales of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR are to wholesalers and distributors who, in turn, sell the products to pharmacies, hospitals and other customers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, three wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation, individually accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2017, and collectively accounted for 97% of our total revenue in 2017. The loss by us of any of these wholesale pharmaceutical distributors' accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. In addition, these wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network has undergone, and may continue to undergo, significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. Consolidation of drug wholesalers has increased, and may continue to increase, competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical products. We cannot assure you that we can manage these pricing pressures or that wholesaler purchases will not fluctuate unexpectedly from period to period.. Our sales of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR can be greatly affected by the inventory levels our respective wholesalers carry. We monitor wholesaler inventory of Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR using a combination of methods. Pursuant to distribution service agreements with our three largest wholesale customers, we receive inventory level reports. For most other wholesalers where we do not receive inventory level reports, however, our estimates of wholesaler inventories may differ significantly from actual inventory levels. Significant differences between actual and estimated inventory levels may result in excessive production (requiring us to hold substantial quantities of unsold inventory), inadequate supplies of products in distribution channels, and insufficient product available at the retail level. These changes may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and in some cases may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to be below our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In addition, at times, wholesaler purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters, which may result in substantial fluctuations in our results of operations from period to period. If our financial results are below expectations for a particular period, the market price of our common stock may drop significantly.. If the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities approve generic products that compete with any of our products or product candidates, the sales of those products or product candidates would be adversely affected.. Once an NDA, including a Section 505(b)(2) application, is approved, the product covered thereby becomes a \"listed drug\" which can be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an ANDA. FDCA, FDA regulations and other applicable regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA or other application for generic substitutes. These manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use or labeling, as our product or product candidate and that the generic product is bioequivalent to our product. Bioequivalence implies that a product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as our product or. 35. Table of Contents. product candidate. These generic equivalents, which must meet the same quality standards as branded pharmaceuticals, would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market. Companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices. Thus, regardless of the regulatory approval pathway, after the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the sales of any branded product are typically lost to the generic product, through both price and volume erosion. Accordingly, competition from generic equivalents would materially, permanently and adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows and substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments we have made in our products and product candidates. In particular, as disclosed in Part I, Item 3 - Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we received Paragraph IV Notice Letters against our Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR Orange Book patents from several generic drug makers. We filed a lawsuit against each of these drug makers alleging infringement of our Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR patents. In March 2017, we signed settlement agreements with two generic drug makers, Actavis and Zydus, concerning our Trokendi XR patents. In August 2017, the U.S. District Court ruled in our favor against TWi concerning Oxtellar XR patents. TWi filed a Notice of Appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. While we intend to vigorously defend our product rights against TWi concerning Oxtellar XR patents, in the event that we are not successful in the lawsuit, our future sales of Oxtellar XR will be significantly, adversely and permanently affected by competition from this generic drug.. We intend to rely on third-party collaborators to market and commercialize our products and product candidates outside the U.S., who may fail to effectively commercialize our products and product candidates.. Outside the U.S., we utilize strategic partners where appropriate to assist in the commercialization of our products and product candidates. We currently possess limited resources and may not be successful in establishing collaborations or licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We also face competition in our search for collaborators and licensing partners. By entering into strategic collaborations or similar arrangements, we will rely on third parties for financial resources and for development, commercialization, sales and marketing and regulatory expertise. Our collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our products or product candidates because they cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, they lack adequate financial or other resources or they decide to focus on other initiatives. Any failure of our third-party collaborators to successfully market and commercialize our products or product candidates outside the U.S. would diminish our revenues and harm our results of operations.. Limitations on our patent rights relating to our products and product candidates may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us.. To a significant degree, our success will depend on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our proprietary technologies and our products and product candidates, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. To that end, we seek patent protection in the U.S. and internationally for our products and product candidates. Our policy is to actively seek to protect our proprietary position by, among other things, filing patent applications in the U.S. and abroad (including Europe, Canada and certain other countries when appropriate) relating to proprietary technologies that are important to the development of our business.. The strength of patents in the pharmaceutical industry involves complex legal and scientific questions and can have uncertain results. Patent applications in the U.S. and most other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, we cannot be certain that we were the first to conceive inventions covered by our patents and pending patent applications or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, we. 36. Table of Contents. cannot be certain that our patent applications will be granted, that any issued patents will adequately protect our intellectual property or that such patents will not be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented.. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our collaborators and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and selected consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. It is possible that technology relevant to our business will be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement. Furthermore, if the employees and consultants that are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches or violations. Further, our trade secrets could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Any failure to adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information could have a material adverse impact on our business.. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the U.S., and therefore we may encounter problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property in certain foreign jurisdictions.. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it could be costly and time consuming to defend such a suit. An unfavorable outcome in that litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our approved products and our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing product candidates. As the pharmaceutical industry expands and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our collaborators' approved products or our product candidates may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. There may be issued patents of third parties of which we are currently unaware that may be infringed by our collaborators' approved products or Oxtellar XR or Trokendi XR, which could prevent us from being able to maximize revenue generated by our products or our product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications which may later result in issued patents that our collaborators' approved products or our product candidates may infringe.. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties alleging that our collaborators' approved products or our products or product candidates infringe their intellectual property rights. If one of our collaborators' approved products or our products or product candidates is found to infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party, we or our collaborators could be enjoined by a court and required to pay damages. We could be unable to commercialize the applicable approved products and product candidates unless we obtain a license to the patent. A license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our approved products prior to a trial. Such a trial may not occur for several years.. 37. Table of Contents. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> Infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management's attention from our core business;    <U+0095> Substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party's rights. If the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner's attorneys' fees;    <U+0095> Court rulings prohibiting us from selling our products or product candidate unless the third party licenses its rights to us, which it is not required to do;    <U+0095> If a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees or grant cross-licenses to our intellectual property rights; and    <U+0095> Redesigning our products or product candidates so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time.. We depend on collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize their and our products and product candidates.. We have a license agreement with United Therapeutics Corporation to use one of our proprietary technologies for an oral formulation of treprostinil diethanolamine, or treprostinil, for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, as well as for other indications. United Therapeutics Corporation launched Orenitram (treprostinil) in 2014, which triggered a milestone payment to us of $2.0 million. In the third quarter of 2014, we received a cash payment of $30.0 million as a result of HealthCare Royalty Partners III, L.P.'s (HC Royalty) purchase of certain of our rights under our license agreement with United Therapeutics Corporation related to the commercialization of Orenitram. We will retain full ownership of the royalty rights if a certain cumulative threshold payment to HC Royalty is reached. We are entitled to receive milestones and royalties for use of this formulation in other indications. If we materially breach any of our obligations under the license agreement, we could lose the right to receive any future royalty payments thereunder, which could be financially significant to us.. Our future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. Much of the potential revenues from these future collaborations may consist of contingent payments, such as payments for achieving development milestones and royalties payable on sales of developed products. The milestone and royalty revenues that we may receive under these collaborations will depend upon our collaborators' ability to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products. Future collaboration partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our products, product candidates or technologies because they, among other things, may:. <U+0095> Change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our product candidates. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years. The ability of some of our product candidates to reach their potential could be limited if our future collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those product candidates;. 38. Table of Contents. <U+0095> Decide not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise or limited cash resources, or the belief that other internal drug development programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining marketing approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment;    <U+0095> Develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the product candidates that are the subject of their collaboration with us;    <U+0095> Not have sufficient resources necessary to carry the product candidate through clinical development, marketing approval and commercialization;     <U+0095> Fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements;    <U+0095> Be unable to obtain the necessary marketing approvals; or    <U+0095> Breach or terminate their arrangement with us.. If collaboration partners fail to develop or fail to effectively commercialize our products for any of these reasons, we may not be able to replace the collaboration partner with another partner to develop and commercialize the product under the terms of the collaboration. Further, even if we are able to replace the collaboration partner, we may not be able to do so on commercially favorable terms. As a result, the development and commercialization of the affected product or product candidate could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of the product candidate on our own.. We have in-licensed or acquired a portion of our intellectual property necessary to develop certain of our psychiatry product candidates. If we fail to comply with our obligations under any of these arrangements, we could lose such licenses or intellectual property rights.. We are a party to and rely on several arrangements with third parties, such as those with Afecta and Rune, which give us rights to intellectual property that are necessary for the development of certain of our product candidates, including SPN-810 and SPN-809, respectively. In addition, we may enter into similar arrangements in the future for other product candidates. Our current arrangements impose various development, financial and other obligations on us. If we materially breach these obligations or if Afecta or Rune fail to adequately perform their respective obligations, these exclusive arrangements could be terminated, which would result in our inability to develop, manufacture and sell products that are covered by such intellectual property.. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval in the U.S., we or our collaborators may never receive approval to commercialize our product candidates outside of the U.S.. To market any products outside of the U.S., we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other jurisdictions regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve product testing and administrative review periods different from, and greater than those in the U.S. The time required to obtain approval in other jurisdictions might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the U.S. as well as other risks. For example, legislation analogous to Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA in the U.S., which relates to the ability of an NDA applicant to use published data not developed by such applicant, may not exist in other countries. In territories where data is not freely available, we may not have the ability to commercialize our products without negotiating rights from third parties to refer to their clinical data in our regulatory applications, which could require the expenditure of significant additional funds and time.. 39. Table of Contents. In addition, regulatory approval in one jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory processes in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions or any delay or setback in obtaining such approvals could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval. As described above, such effects include the risks that any of our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and have an adverse effect on their commercial potential or require costly post-marketing studies.. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products and product candidates.. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products and product candidates. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups or organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of concomitant therapies. Recommendations or guidelines suggesting the reduced use of our products or the use of competitive or alternative products that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in decreased use of our products.. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities.. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any of our products expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products and product candidates. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liabilities. In addition, product liability claims may result in:. <U+0095> Decreased demand for any product that has received approval and is being commercialized;    <U+0095> Impairment of our business reputation and exposure to adverse publicity;    <U+0095> Withdrawal of bioequivalence and/or clinical trial participants;    <U+0095> Initiation of investigations by regulators;    <U+0095> Costs of related litigation;    <U+0095> Distraction of management's attention from our primary business;    <U+0095> Substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;    <U+0095> Loss of revenues; and    <U+0095> Our inability to commercialize products for which we obtain marketing approval.. Our product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials is limited to $15 million per claim and $15 million in the aggregate, and covers bodily injury and property damage arising from our clinical trials, subject to industry-standard terms, conditions and exclusions. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline. If judgments exceed our insurance coverage, our cash balance could decrease and adversely affect our business.. 40. Table of Contents. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent the commercial success of our products or product candidates.. The U.S. government (federal and certain states) and other non-U.S. governments have shown significant and increased interest in pursuing healthcare reform and changes to the delivery system. Government-adopted reform measures could adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally and adversely impact the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or commercial third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations, employers and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for any approved product or to increase price once launched. These initiatives could adversely impact our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability.. In both the U. S. (federal and certain states) and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could adversely affect our ability to sell any approved product profitably. Some of these proposed reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law a comprehensive change to the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the HealthCare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. These laws and their regulations, which we refer to collectively as the HealthCare Reform Law, have far reaching consequences for pharmaceutical companies like us, and possible revisions to the HealthCare Reform Law are the subject of ongoing legislative debates.. The HealthCare Reform Law has continued the downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and increased the industry's regulatory burdens and operating costs. Among the provisions of the HealthCare Reform Law of importance to our products and product candidates are the following:. <U+0095> An annual, nondeductible fee payable by any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents payable to the U.S. federal government based on each company's market share of prior year total sales of branded products to certain federal healthcare programs;     <U+0095> An increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;     <U+0095> A methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected;    <U+0095> A Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;     <U+0095> Extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;     <U+0095> Expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs in certain states;    <U+0095> Expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;     <U+0095> A requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and. 41. Table of Contents. <U+0095> A Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act. The Trump Administration and U.S. Congress have attempted and will likely continue to seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act. Since January 2017, President Trump has signed two Executive Orders and other directives designed to delay, circumvent or loosen the implementation of certain provisions mandated by the Affordable Care Act that would impose a fiscal or regulatory burden on states, individuals, healthcare providers, health insurers, or manufacturers of pharmaceuticals or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the Affordable Care Act. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the Affordable Care Act. While Congress has not passed repeal legislation, on December 22, 2017, the President signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act), which includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the Affordable Care Act on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate.\" Additionally, on January 23, 2018, President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain Affordable Care Act-mandated fees, including the so-called \"Cadillac\" tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Congress may consider other legislation to repeal or replace elements of the Affordable Care Act. It is difficult to predict the extent to which any of these changes to the Affordable Care Act, or additional changes, if made, may impact our business or financial condition.. In addition, other legislative changes have been adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. These changes include aggregate reductions in Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 also further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and, accordingly, our financial operations. More recently, there have been several U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. Individual states in the United States have also become increasingly active in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. In addition, regional healthcare authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using bidding procedures to determine what pharmaceutical products and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other healthcare programs. Legally mandated price controls on payment amounts by third-party payors or other restrictions could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects or prevent us from being able to commercialize our products.. In 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-marketing authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. In 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and. 42. Table of Contents. Innovation Act was enacted, expanding drug supply chain requirements and strengthening FDA's response to drug shortages, as well as other changes. The FDA's exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during product development, clinical trials and regulatory review, increased costs to assure compliance with post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale and/or distribution of any approved product. The Drug Quality and Security Act (DQSA) became law in 2013. The DQSA creates the requirement for companies to trace, verify and identify all products across all changes of ownership from manufacturer to dispenser.. Future federal and state proposals and health care reforms in other countries could limit the prices that can be charged for our product and product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunities. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by the HealthCare Reform Law by reducing the amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future.. Implementation of the HealthCare Reform Law could cause us to incur significant compliance expenses or could subject us to substantial penalties and fines if our business is found to violate these requirements.. The financial impact of the HealthCare Reform Law on our business is on-going, and there can be no assurance that our business will not be materially harmed by future implementation of or changes to the HealthCare Reform Law. In addition, if we are not in full compliance with the HealthCare Reform Law, we could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties and we could receive adverse publicity.. The HealthCare Reform Law includes various provisions designed to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and lowering the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge or specific intent to violates the statute.. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations.. The risk of our being found in violation of the HealthCare Reform Law, its underlying regulations, or other laws impacted by its implementation is made more complex by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. As a supplier of pharmaceuticals, certain U.S. federal and state health care laws and regulations pertaining to patients' rights to privacy fraud and abuse are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations include the:. <U+0095> Federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge or specific intent to violate the statute in order to have committed a violation.. 43. Table of Contents. Further, the government may assert that a claim, including items and services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act, discussed below;   <U+0095> Federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, knowingly making a false statement material to an obligation to pay or transmit money to the federal government or knowingly concealing or improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay money to the federal government, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers;    <U+0095> Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge or specific intent to violate the statute in order to have committed a violation;    <U+0095> HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;    <U+0095> Federal physician payment transparency requirements under the Affordable Care Act, which require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies to report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests;     <U+0095> Federal price reporting laws, which require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our commercial products;    <U+0095> FDCA, which among other things, strictly regulates drug product marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing drug products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of drug samples; and    <U+0095> State law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as state anti-kickback laws, physician payment and drug pricing transparency laws, and false claims laws which may apply to our business practices, including, but not limited to, research, distribution, sales and marketing arrangements and to claims for items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and impair our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our. 44. Table of Contents. management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly.. As we continue to increase the size of our organization, we may experience difficulties in managing growth.. Our personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support future growth. Our future financial performance and our ability to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage our recent and any future growth. In 2017, we increased from 363 employees to 422 employees and increased revenues to $302.2 million from $215.0 million in 2016. Our need to effectively execute our growth strategy requires that we:. <U+0095> Manage our regulatory approvals and clinical trials effectively;    <U+0095> Manage our internal development efforts effectively while complying with our contractual obligations to licensors, licensees, contractors, collaborators and other third parties;    <U+0095> Commercialize our product candidates;    <U+0095> Improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and    <U+0095> Attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of talented employees.. This growth could place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure and may require our management to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In addition, our growth will cause us to comply with an increasing number of regulations and statutory requirements. If our management is unable to effectively manage our expected growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate or increase our revenues could be impaired, and we may not be able to implement our business strategy.. We may enter into significant, complex and unusual transactions, which may require us to engage outside consultants and financial professionals in order to comply with complex accounting and reporting requirements.. From time to time, the Company may be presented with, and may choose to enter into, significant, complex and unusual business or financial transactions, either to raise capital or in the context of entering into a business arrangement with a third party. These transactions may entail complex accounting or financial reporting requirements with which we may not be familiar. Accordingly, we may need to hire additional personnel or retain the services of outside accounting, financial reporting, and legal experts to guide both the transaction and to assist management in becoming compliant with the attendant financial reporting requirements. Moreover, acquiring such additional resources could increase our legal and financial compliance costs, divert management attention from other matters, and/or make some activities more time consuming.. Given the complexity of such transactions, there is inherent risk regarding compliance with financial reporting requirements. Because the relevant regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretation, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and financial reporting requirements. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and accounting standards differ from the intentions of regulatory. 45. Table of Contents. or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us, and our business may be adversely affected.. Our operations rely on sophisticated information technology and equipment systems and infrastructure, a disruption of which could harm our operations.. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In addition, we rely on various information technology and equipment systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, to manage our technology platform and operations. These systems provide critical data and services for internal and external users, including procurement and inventory management, transaction processing, financial, commercial and operational data, human resources management, legal and tax compliance information and other information and processes necessary to operate and manage our business. These systems are complex and are frequently updated as technology improves, and include software and hardware that is licensed, leased or purchased from third parties. If our information technology or equipment systems fail to function properly due to internal errors or defects, implementation or integration issues, catastrophic events or power outages, we may experience a material disruption in our ability to manage our business operations. Failure or disruption of these systems could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Any failure to manage, expand, and update our information technology infrastructure or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business.. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our activities and our third-party manufacturers' and suppliers' activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials owned by us. We and our manufacturers and suppliers are subject to federal, state, city and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures we use for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations, including our commercialization and research and development efforts. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by our third-party manufacturers for handling and disposing of these materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we have no direct control over our third-party manufacturers and therefore cannot guarantee that this is the case or eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or that such safety procedures will injury from these materials. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages and such liability could exceed our resources. We do not currently maintain biological or hazardous materials insurance coverage. While we have implemented processes and procedures to try to ensure that the suppliers we use are complying with all applicable regulations, there can be no assurances that such suppliers in all instances will comply with such processes and procedures or otherwise with applicable regulations. Noncompliance could result in our marketing and distribution of contaminated, defective or dangerous products which could subject us to liabilities and could result in the imposition by governmental authorities of procedures or penalties that could restrict or eliminate our ability to purchase products. Any or all of these effects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 46. Table of Contents. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors and, as such, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data in our data centers and on our networks, including: intellectual property; our proprietary business information; proprietary information of our customers, suppliers and business partners; and personally identifiable information of our employees and patients in our clinical trials. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties that could disrupt our operations and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position.. Provisions in our agreement with Shire impose restrictive covenants on us, which could limit our ability to operate effectively in the future.. In 2005, we purchased substantially all of the assets of Shire Laboratories Inc. Under the purchase agreement, we agreed to refrain perpetually from engaging in any research, formulation development, analytical testing, manufacture, technology assessment or oral bioavailability screening that relate to five specific drug compounds (amphetamine, carbamazepine, guanfacine, lanthanum and mesalamine) and any derivative thereof. Although these various restrictions and covenants on us do not currently impact our products, product candidates or business, they could in the future limit or delay our ability to take advantage of business opportunities that may relate to such compounds.. 47. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Finances and Capital Requirements. Although we have been profitable from operations since the fourth quarter of 2014, there is no assurance that we will continue to generate net income in the future.. In recent years, we have focused primarily on developing our current products and product candidates, with the goal of commercializing these products and supporting regulatory approval for our product candidates. We have financed our operations through various transactions including the following:. <U+0095> The completion of our $52.3 million initial public offering in May 2012;    <U+0095> The completion of our follow-on $49.9 million equity offering in November 2012;    <U+0095> The completion of our $90.0 million private placement offering of 7.50% Convertible Senior Secured Notes in May 2013; and     <U+0095> The monetization of certain future royalty streams in 2014, under our existing license for Orenitram.. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $26.8 million. Substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our development programs, expenses associated with launching our products, and from selling, general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We expect our research and development costs to continue to be substantial and to increase with respect to our product candidates as we advance those product candidates through preclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and other pre-approval activities. We expect our selling, general and administrative costs to continue to increase as we continue to support the ongoing commercialization of our products.. Our prior losses have had an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and cash position. While we anticipate maintaining profitability in 2018 and beyond, we cannot be certain that we will do so. Any potential future losses, if and when they occur, could have an adverse impact on our stockholders' equity and working capital. Furthermore, since the completion of our initial public offering in May 2012, we have incurred additional costs associated with operating as a public company.. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.. Developing product candidates, conducting clinical trials, establishing manufacturing relationships and marketing drugs are expensive and uncertain processes.. In addition, unforeseen circumstances may arise, or our strategic imperatives could change, causing us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, requiring us to seek to raise additional funds. We have no committed external sources of funds.. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> Our ability to successfully support our products in the marketplace and the rate of increase in the level of sales in the marketplace;     <U+0095> The rate of progress, clinical success, and cost of our trials and other product development programs for our product candidates;     <U+0095> The costs and timing of in-licensing additional product candidates or acquiring other complementary companies;     <U+0095> The timing of any regulatory approvals of our product candidates;. 48. Table of Contents. <U+0095> The actions of our competitors and their success in selling competitive product offerings including generics; and     <U+0095> The status, terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing, co-promotion or other arrangements.. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. We may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs, our commercialization efforts or strategic initiatives.. We may not be able to maintain or increase profitability.. Our ability to remain profitable depends upon our ability to generate increasing levels of revenues from sales of our products, Oxtellar XR and Trokendi XR, while simultaneously funding the requisite research expenditures to gain FDA approval for our product candidates. Since 2013, the first year in which we generated revenue from our first commercial products, we have demonstrated the ability to become and remain profitable. Future revenues will depend highly on our ability to grow demand for our products and defend against potential generic competition, and successfully developing and commercializing our product candidates.. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly.. We expect that any revenues we generate will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of revenue from approved products, our license agreements, the amount of and timing for development milestones and product revenues received under our collaboration license agreements.. Our net earnings and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including:. <U+0095> The level of market acceptance for any approved product candidate, underlying demand for that product and wholesalers' buying patterns;     <U+0095> Variations in the level of expenses related to our development programs;    <U+0095> The success of our bioequivalence and clinical trials through all phases of clinical development;    <U+0095> Our execution of any collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements;    <U+0095> Any delays in regulatory review and approval of product candidates in clinical development;    <U+0095> The timing of any regulatory approvals, if received, of additional indications for our existing products;     <U+0095> Potential side effects of our products and our future products that could delay or prevent commercialization, cause an approved drug to be taken off the market, or result in litigation;    <U+0095> Any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved;    <U+0095> Our ability to maintain an effective sales and marketing infrastructure;    <U+0095> Our dependency on third-party manufacturers to supply or manufacture our products and product candidates;     <U+0095> Competition from existing products, new products, or potential generics to our products that may emerge;. 49. Table of Contents. <U+0095> Regulatory developments affecting our products and product candidates; and    <U+0095> Changes in reimbursement environment and regulatory changes.. Due to the various factors mentioned above, and others, the results of any prior quarterly period should not be relied upon as an indication of our future operating performance. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially.. Complying with increased financial reporting and securities laws reporting requirements has increased our costs and requires additional management resources. We may fail to meet these obligations.. We face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, for example, has resulted in significant initial cost to us as well as ongoing increases in our legal, audit and financial reporting costs. As of the beginning of 2017, we transitioned from \"accelerated filer\" to \"large accelerated filer\" status, which led to further increases in our legal, audit, NASDAQ listing fees and financial compliance costs. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Our board of directors, management and outside advisors need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and require us to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage.. As a public company, we are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to internal controls over financial reporting. We expect to incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with Section 404. We currently do not have an internal audit group and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. We expect that we will have to compete in the market place for qualified accounting and financial staff and we may have difficulties identifying and attracting qualified persons. Implementing any necessary changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training for our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify or replace our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls. Any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate consolidated financial statements or other reports on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. We cannot assure that our internal controls over financial reporting will prove to be effective.. We may identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, which might cause stockholders to lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal control over financial reporting and adequate disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be. 50. Table of Contents. material weaknesses. These may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Any system of internal controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any material weaknesses in our internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control procedures on a quarterly basis. Our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. The annual independent assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls is very expensive and could continue to detect problems that our management's assessment might not. Undetected material weaknesses in our internal controls could lead to financial statement restatements and require us to incur the expense of remediation.. We are continuing to refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that the information that we are required to disclose in the reports that we will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission is properly recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. We are also continuing to improve our internal control over financial reporting. We have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes may be limited.. Our ability to utilize our U.S. Federal and state net operating losses or U.S. Federal tax credits is currently limited, and may be limited further, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The limitations apply if an ownership change, as defined by Section 382, occurs. Generally, an ownership change occurs when certain shareholders change their aggregate ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage in a testing period, which is typically three years or since the last ownership change. We are already subject to Section 382 limitations due to cumulative ownership changes that, as of November 15, 2013, totaled more than 50%. As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $32.1 million and research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $4.2 million. Future changes in stock ownership may also trigger an additional ownership change and, consequently, another Section 382 limitation. Any limitation may result in expiration of a portion of the net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards before utilization which would reduce our gross deferred income tax assets. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards to reduce U.S. Federal and state income tax may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future cash tax liability to us.. Risks Related to Securities Markets and Investment in Our Stock. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock and thereby materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Sales of our common stock, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock which would impair our ability to raise future capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. We may conduct future offerings of our common stock, preferred stock or other securities convertible into our common stock to fund acquisitions, finance operations or for other purposes. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding 51,314,850 shares of common stock, of which approximately 1,957,011 shares are restricted securities that may be sold in accordance with the resale restrictions under Rule 144 of the Securities Act or pursuant to a resale registration statement. Also, as of. 51. Table of Contents. December 31, 2017, we had outstanding options to purchase 4,280,670 shares of common stock that, if exercised, would result in these additional shares becoming available for sale. Approximately 5.3% of these shares and options are held by senior management of the Company. We have also registered all common stock subject to options outstanding or reserved for issuance under our 2005 Stock Plan, 2012 Equity Incentive Plan and 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. An aggregate of 3,343,432 and 226,084 shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuance under the 2012 Equity Incentive Plan and the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, respectively.. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain on an investment in our common stock.. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. We currently have very limited research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If securities or industry analysts presently covering our business do not continue such coverage or if additional securities or industry analysts do not commence coverage of our Company, the trading price for our stock could be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Anti-takeover provisions under our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control which could negatively impact the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. These provisions include the following:. <U+0095> Our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, such that not all members of the board will be elected at one time. This staggered board structure prevents stockholders from replacing the entire board at a single stockholders' meeting;    <U+0095> Our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;    <U+0095> Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock. The ability to authorize preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us;     <U+0095> Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting. Furthermore, stockholders may only remove a member of our board of directors for cause. These provisions. 52. Table of Contents. may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect such acquiror's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our Company;   <U+0095> Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to take certain actions outside of a stockholders' meeting;    <U+0095> Special meetings of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors or a majority of our board of directors. As a result, a holder, or holders, controlling a majority of our capital stock would not be able to call a special meeting; and    <U+0095> A supermajority (75%) of the voting power of outstanding shares of our capital stock is required to amend or repeal or to adopt any provision inconsistent with certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and to amend our by-laws, which make it more difficult to change the provisions described above.. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors.. We may not be able to maintain an active public market for our common stock.. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our common stock will allow us to maintain an active trading market on the NASDAQ Global Market or a similar market or how liquid that market might become. If an active public market is not sustained, it may be difficult to sell shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to the investor, or at all. Further, an inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock and may impair our ability to enter into strategic partnerships or acquire companies or products, product candidates or technologies by using our shares of common stock as consideration.. To the extent outstanding stock options are exercised, there will be dilution to new investors.. As of December 31, 2017, we had options to purchase 4,280,670 shares of common stock outstanding, with exercise prices ranging from $1.60 to $41.00 per share and a weighted average exercise price of $14.50 per share. Upon the vesting of each of these options, the holder may exercise his or her options, which would result in dilution to investors.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially.. The market price for our common stock is likely to be volatile. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> The commercial performance of Oxtellar XR, Trokendi XR, or any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval;     <U+0095> Substitution of our products in favor of generic versions;    <U+0095> Status of our ongoing patent infringement law suits;    <U+0095> The filing of ANDAs by generic companies seeking approval to market generic versions of our products;     <U+0095> Plans for, progress in and results from clinical trials of our product candidates generally;. 53. Table of Contents. <U+0095> FDA or international regulatory actions, including actions on regulatory applications for any of our product candidates;     <U+0095> Announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;     <U+0095> Market conditions and regulatory changes in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;    <U+0095> Fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies;    <U+0095> Fluctuations in stock market prices for the U.S. stock market;    <U+0095> Variations in our quarterly operating results;    <U+0095> Changes in accounting principles;    <U+0095> Litigation or public concern about the safety of our products and/or potential products;    <U+0095> Actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results;    <U+0095> Deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts;    <U+0095> Additions or departures of key personnel;    <U+0095> Sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;     <U+0095> Changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement policies for our products and/or product candidates; and     <U+0095> Discussion by us or our stock price in the financial or scientific press or online investor communities.. The realization of any of the risks described in these \"Risk Factors\" could have a dramatic, material and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition."
