[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. This report contains forward-looking statements regarding our business and expected future performance as well as assumptions underlying or relating to such statements of expectation, all of which are \"forward looking statements\" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We are subject to many risks and uncertainties that may materially affect our business and future performance and cause those forward-looking statements to be inaccurate. Words such as \"expects,\" \"anticipates,\" \"intends,\" \"plans,\" \"believes,\" \"forecasts,\" \"estimates,\" \"seeks,\" \"may result in,\" \"focused on,\" \"continue to,\" \"on-going\" and similar expressions often identify forward-looking statements. In this report, forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following:. <U+25CF>  Our expectations regarding revenues, cash flows, expenses, including cost of revenue, sales and marketing, research and development efforts, and administrative expenses, and profits;. <U+25CF>  Our expectations regarding partners, renewal of contracts with these partners and the anticipated timing and magnitude of revenue from programs with these partners;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to successfully license, implement and support our Support.com Cloud offering;. <U+25CF>  Our expectations regarding sales of our end-user software products, and our ability to source, develop and distribute enhanced versions of these products;. <U+25CF>  The market appeal and efficacy of our Guided Paths® self-help solution and diagnostic tools;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to expand and diversify our customer base;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to attract and retain qualified management and employees;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to hire, train, manage and retain customer support specialists in a home-based model in quantities sufficient to meet forecast requirements and in a cost-effective manner, and our ability to continue to enhance the flexibility of our staffing model;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to adapt to changes in the market for customer support services;. <U+25CF>  Our expectations regarding unit volumes, pricing and other factors in the market for computers and other technology devices, and the effects of such factors on our business;. <U+25CF>  Our expectations regarding the results of pending, threatened or future litigation;. <U+25CF>  Our expectations regarding the results of pending, threatened or future government investigations and audits, including, without limitation, those investigations and audits described in Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this report;. 7. Table of Contents. An investment in our stock involves risk, and we caution investors that forward-looking statements are only predictions based on our current expectations about future events and are not guarantees of future performance. We encourage you to read carefully all information provided in this report and in our other filings with the SEC before deciding to invest in our stock or to maintain or change your investment. Forward-looking statements are based on information as of the filing date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason.. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our stated expectations.   While a number of these factors are described below, this list does not include all risks that could affect our business. If these or any other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and from our expected future results.. Because a small number of partners have historically accounted for, and for the foreseeable future will account for, the substantial majority of our revenue, under-performance of specific programs or loss of certain partners or programs could continue to reduce our revenue substantially.. For the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2017, Comcast accounted for 69% and 65% of our total revenue, respectively.  The loss of this or other significant relationships, the change of the terms or terminations of our arrangements with any of these firms, the reduction or discontinuance of programs with any of these firms, or the failure of any of these firms to achieve their targets has in the past adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect our business.  Generally, the agreements with our partners do not require them to conduct any minimum amount of business with us, and therefore they have decided in the past and could decide at any time in the future to reduce or eliminate their programs or the use of our services in such programs. They may also enter into multi-sourcing arrangements with other vendors for services previously provided exclusively by us. Further, we may not successfully obtain new partners or customers. There is also the risk that, once established, our programs with these and other partners may take longer than we expect to produce revenue or may not produce revenue at all, and the revenue produced may not be profitable if the costs of performing under the program are greater than anticipated or the program terminates before up-front investments can be recouped. One or more of our key partners may also choose not to renew their relationship with us, discontinue certain programs, offer them only on a limited basis or devote insufficient time and attention to promoting them to their customers. Some of our key partners may prefer not to work with us if we also partner with their competitors. If any of these key partners merge with one of their competitors, all of these risks could be exacerbated.. Each of these risks could reduce our sales and have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our business is based on a relatively new and evolving business model.. We are executing a plan to grow our business by providing customer support services, creating a robust, timely and innovative library of Guided Path® self-support tools, licensing our Support.com Cloud application, and providing end-user consumer software products. We may not be able to offer these services and software products successfully. Our customer support specialists are generally home-based, which requires a high degree of coordination and quality control of employees working from diverse and remote locations. We expect to invest cash generated from our existing business to support our growth initiatives. Our investments, which typically are made in advance of revenue, may not yield increased revenue to offset these expenses. As a result of these factors, the future revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of these factors and the risks and uncertainties often encountered by companies in our stage of development. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to do the following:. <U+25CF>  Maintain our current relationships and service programs, and develop new relationships, with service partners and licensees of our Support.com Cloud offering on acceptable terms or at all;. <U+25CF>  Reach prospective customers for our software products in a cost-effective fashion;. <U+25CF>  Reduce our dependence on a limited number of partners for a substantial majority of our revenue;. <U+25CF>  Successfully license and grow our revenue related to our Support.com Cloud offering;. 8. Table of Contents. <U+25CF>  Manage our employees and contract labor efficiently and effectively;. <U+25CF>  Maintain gross and operating margins;. <U+25CF>  Match staffing levels with demand for services and forecast requirements;. <U+25CF>  Obtain bonuses and avoid penalties in contractual arrangements;. <U+25CF>  Operate successfully in a time-based pricing model;. <U+25CF>  Operate effectively in the SMB market;. <U+25CF>  Successfully introduce new, and adapt our existing, services and products for consumers and businesses;. <U+25CF>  Respond effectively to changes in the market for customer support services;. <U+25CF>  Realize benefits of any acquisitions we make;. <U+25CF>  Adapt to changes in the markets we serve;. <U+25CF>  Adapt to changes in our industry, including consolidation;. <U+25CF>  Respond to government regulations relating to our current and future business;. <U+25CF>  Manage and respond to present, threatened, and future litigation; and. <U+25CF>  Manage and respond to present, threatened or future government investigations and audits, including, without limitation, those audits and investigations described in Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this report.. If we are unable to address these risks, our business, results of operations and prospects could suffer.. Our quarterly results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly.. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be accurate indicators of future performance.. Several factors that have contributed or may in the future contribute to fluctuations in our operating results include:. <U+25CF>  The performance of our partners;. <U+25CF>  Change, or reduction in or discontinuance of our principal programs with partners;. <U+25CF>  Our reliance on a small number of partners for a substantial majority of our revenue;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to successfully license and grow revenue related to our. <U+25CF>  Guided Paths®, Support.com Cloud and our service offerings;. <U+25CF>  The timing and ability to sell;. <U+25CF>  The availability and cost-effectiveness of advertising placements for our software products and our ability to respond to changes in the advertising markets in which we participate;. <U+25CF>  The efficiency and effectiveness of our technology specialists;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to effectively match staffing levels with service volumes on a cost-effective basis;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to manage contract labor;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to hire, train, manage and retain our home-based customer support specialists and enhance the flexibility of our staffing model in a cost-effective fashion and in quantities sufficient to meet forecast requirements;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to manage costs under our self-funded health insurance program;. <U+25CF>  Usage rates on the subscriptions we offer;. <U+25CF>  The rate of expansion of our offerings and our investments therein;. <U+25CF>  Changes in the markets for computers and other technology devices relating to unit volume, pricing and other factors, including changes driven by declines in sales of personal computers and the growing popularity of tablets, and other mobile devices and the introduction of new devices into the connected home;. <U+25CF>  Our ability to adapt to our customers' needs in a market space defined by frequent technological change;. <U+25CF>  The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures in our business;. <U+25CF>  Diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, incurrence of costs and disruption of our ongoing business activities as a result of acquisitions or divestitures by us;. <U+25CF>  Costs related to the defense and settlement of litigation which can also have an additional adverse impact on us because of negative publicity, diversion of management resources and other factors;. 9. Table of Contents. <U+25CF>  Costs related to the defense and settlement of government investigations and audits which can also have an additional adverse impact on us because of negative publicity, diversion of management resources and other factors, including, without limitation, those audits and investigations described in Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this report; and. <U+25CF>  Potential losses on investments, or other losses from financial instruments we may hold that are exposed to market risk.. Our Support.com Cloud offering is in its early stages and failure to market, sell and develop the offering effectively and competitively could result in a lack of growth.. A number of competitive offerings exist in the market, providing various feature sets that may overlap with our Support.com Cloud offering today or in the future. Some competitors in this market far exceed our spending on sales and marketing activities and benefit from greater existing brand awareness, channel relationships and existing customer relationships. We may not be able to reach the market effectively and adequately or convey our differentiation as needed to grow our customer base. To reach our target market effectively, we may be required to continue to invest substantial resources in sales and marketing and research and development activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, if we fail to develop and maintain competitive features, deliver high-quality products and satisfy existing customers, our Support.com Cloud offering could fail to grow. Growth in Support.com Cloud license revenue also depends on scaling our multi-tenant technology flexibly and cost-effectively to meet changing customer demand. Disruptions in infrastructure operations as described below could impair our ability to deliver Support.com Cloud offering to customers, thereby affecting our reputation with existing and prospective customers and possibly resulting in monetary penalties or financial losses.. Our end-user software revenues are dependent on online traffic patterns and the availability and cost of online advertising in certain key placements.. Some of our consumer end-user software revenue stream is obtained through advertising placements in certain key online media placements. From time to time a trend or a change in a key advertising placement will impact us, decreasing traffic or significantly increasing the cost or effectiveness of online advertising and therefore compromising our ability to purchase a desired volume and placement of advertisements at profitable rates. If such a change were to continue to occur, as it did in 2013 and on several occasions in the past, we may be unable to attract desired amounts of traffic, our costs for advertising may further increase beyond our forecasts and our software revenues may further decrease. As a result, our operating results would be negatively impacted.. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. If we are not successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we are unable to retain key employees and executive management, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees and executive management could hinder our strategic planning and execution.. If we fail to attract, train and manage our consumer support specialists in a manner that meets forecast requirements and provides an adequate level of support for our customers, our reputation and financial performance could be harmed.. Our business depends in part on our ability to attract, manage and retain our customer support specialists and other support personnel. If we are unable to attract, train and manage in a cost-effective manner adequate numbers of competent specialists and other support personnel to be available as service volumes vary, particularly as we seek to expand the breadth and flexibility of our staffing model, our service levels could decline, which could harm our reputation, result in financial losses under contract terms, cause us to lose customers and partners, and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. Our ability to meet our need for support personnel while controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the level of demand for our products and services, the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the workforce, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs, including managing costs under our self-funded health insurance program which can vary substantially each reporting period, and the cost of compliance with labor and wage laws and regulations. In the case of programs with time-based pricing models, the impact of failing to attract, train and manage such personnel could directly and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Although our service delivery and communications infrastructure enables us to monitor and manage customer support specialists remotely, because they are typically home-based and geographically dispersed, we could experience difficulties meeting services levels and effectively managing the costs, performance and compliance of these customer support specialists and other support personnel. Any problems we encounter in effectively attracting, managing and retaining our customer support specialists and other support personnel could seriously jeopardize our service delivery operations and our financial results.. 10. Table of Contents. Changes in the market for computers and other consumer electronics and in the technology support services market could adversely affect our business.. Reductions in unit volumes of sales for computers and other devices we support, or in the prices of such equipment, could adversely affect our business. We offer both services that are attached to the sales of new computers and other devices, and services designed to fix existing computers and other devices. Declines in the unit volumes sold of these devices or declines in the pricing of such devices could adversely affect demand for our services or our revenue mix, either of which would harm our operating results. Further, we do not support all types of computers and devices, meaning that we must select and focus on certain operating systems and technology standards for computers, tablets, smart phones, and other devices. We may not be successful in supporting new devices in the connected home and \"Internet of Things,\" and consumers and SMBs may prefer equipment we do not support, which may decrease the market for our services and products if customers migrate away from platforms we support. In addition, the structures and pricing models for programs in the technology support services market may change in ways that reduce our revenues and our margins.. Disruptions in our information technology and service delivery infrastructure and operations could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business.. We depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communication systems and those of our third-party service providers. Any interruption or failure of our internal or external systems could prevent us or our service providers from accepting orders and delivering services, or cause company and consumer data to be unintentionally disclosed. Our continuing efforts to upgrade and enhance the security and reliability of our information technology and communications infrastructure could be very costly, and we may have to expend significant resources to remedy problems such as a security breach or service interruption. Interruptions in our services resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events, or a security breach could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, cause customers and partners and licensees to fail to renew or to terminate their use of our offerings, and harm our reputation and our ability to attract new customers.. We may make acquisitions that deplete our resources and do not prove successful.. We have made acquisitions in the past and may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our management may not be able to effectively implement our acquisition program and internal growth strategy simultaneously. The integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. We may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating management and personnel from these acquired entities with our management and personnel. Our failure to identify, consummate or integrate suitable acquisitions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot readily predict the timing, size or success of our future acquisitions. Even successful acquisitions could have the effect of reducing our cash balances.. Our systems collect, access, use, and store personal customer information and enable customer transactions, which poses security risks, requires us to invest significant resources to prevent or correct problems caused by security breaches, and may harm our business.. A fundamental requirement for online communications, transactions and support is the secure collection, storage and transmission of confidential information. Our systems collect and store confidential and personal information of our individual customers as well as our partners and their customers' users, including personally identifiable information and payment card information, and our employees and contractors may access and use that information in the course of providing services. In addition, we collect and retain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. We and our third-party contractors use commercially available technologies to secure this information. Despite these measures, parties may attempt to breach the security of our data or that of our customers. In addition, errors in the storage or transmission of data could breach the security of that information. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in security and any breach could subject us to governmental or administrative proceedings or monetary penalties, damage our relationships with partners and harm our business and reputation. Also, computers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards required by law, industry standard, or contract, and to further protect against security breaches or to correct problems caused by any security breach.. 11. Table of Contents. We are exposed to risks associated with payment card and payment fraud and with payment card processing.. Certain of our customers use payment cards to pay for our services and products. We may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent payment cards or other payment data. Our failure to detect or control payment fraud could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are also subject to payment card association operating standards and requirements, as in effect from time to time. Compliance with those standards requires us to invest in network and systems infrastructure and processes. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements may subject us to fines, potential contractual liabilities, and other costs, resulting in harm to our business and results of operations.. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may require us to incur significant costs and may reduce the effectiveness of our solutions, and our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may harm our business and cause us to lose customers.. Our software and services contain features that allow our technology specialists and other personnel to access, control, monitor, and collect information from computers and other devices.  Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations restricting or otherwise regulating the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. Those regulations could require costly compliance measures, could reduce the efficiency of our operations, or could require us to modify or cease to provide our systems or services. Liability for violation of, costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by such laws and regulations may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for them. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and inhibit adoption of our solutions by current and future customers.  In addition, we may face claims about invasion of privacy or inappropriate disclosure, use, storage, or loss of information obtained from our customers. Any imposition of liability could harm our reputation, cause us to lose customers and cause our operating results to suffer.. We rely on third-party technologies in providing certain of our software and services. Our inability to use, retain or integrate third-party technologies and relationships could delay service or software development and could harm our business.. We license technologies from third parties, which are integrated into our services, technology and end user software. Our use of commercial technologies licensed on a non-exclusive basis from third parties poses certain risks.  Some of the third-party technologies we license may be provided under \"open source\" licenses, which may have terms that require us to make generally available our modifications or derivative works based on such open source code.  Our inability to obtain or integrate third-party technologies with our own technology could delay service development until equivalent compatible technology can be identified, licensed and integrated.  These third-party technologies may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  If our relationship with third parties were to deteriorate, or if such third parties were unable to develop innovative and saleable products, or component features of our products, we could be forced to identify a new developer and our future revenue could suffer.  We may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our services or software, or maintain it through our own development work, which would harm our business and operating results.. Our business operates in regulated industries.. Our current and anticipated service offerings operate in industries, such as home security, that are subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate.  In certain jurisdictions, we may be required to obtain licenses or permits in order to comply with standards governing employee selection and training and to meet certain standards or licensing requirements in the conduct of our business.  The loss of such licenses or permits or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses or permits could have a material adverse effect on us.. Changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses for us or our partners. If laws and regulations were to change, or if we or our products and services were deemed not to comply with them, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. 12. Table of Contents. If our services are used to commit fraud or other similar intentional or illegal acts, we may incur significant liabilities, our services may be perceived as not secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services.. Certain software and services we provide, including our Support.com Cloud applications, enable remote access to and control of third-party computer systems and devices.  We generally are not able to control how such access may be used or misused by licensees of our SaaS offerings. If our software is used by others to commit fraud or other illegal acts, including, but not limited to, violating data privacy laws, proliferating computer files that contain a virus or other harmful elements, interfering or disrupting third-party networks, infringing any third party's copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret or other rights, transmitting any unlawful, harassing, libelous, abusive, threatening, vulgar, obscene or otherwise objectionable material, or committing unauthorized access to computers, devices, or protected information, third parties may seek to hold us legally liable.  As a result, defending such claims could be expensive and time-consuming regardless of the merits, and we could incur significant liability or be required to undertake expensive preventive or remedial actions.  As a result, our operating results may suffer and our reputation may be damaged.. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights.. Our business relies on the use and licensing of technology. Other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, and our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties.  For example, our products may infringe patents issued to third parties.  In addition, as is increasingly common in the technology sector, we may be confronted with the aggressive enforcement of patents by companies whose primary business activity is to acquire patents for the purpose of offensively asserting them against other companies.  From time to time, we have received allegations or claims of intellectual property infringement, and we may receive more claims in the future.  We may also be required to pursue litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against allegations of infringement. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management's attention from our business. The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results.  If there is a successful claim of infringement, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business.. We may face class actions and similar claims that could be costly to defend or settle and result in negative publicity and diversion of management resources.. Our business involves direct sale and licensing of services and software to consumers and SMBs, and we typically include customary indemnification provisions in favor of our partners in our agreements for the distribution of our services and software.  As a result, we can be subject to consumer litigation and legal proceedings related to our services and software, including putative class action claims and similar legal actions, including, but not limited to, consumer litigation and legal proceedings that may arise related to the FTC and DOL investigations described in Note 3 Legal Proceedings in this report.  We can also be subject to employee litigation and legal proceedings related to our employment practices attempted on a class or representative basis. Such litigation can be expensive and time-consuming regardless of the merits of any action, and could divert management's attention from our business.  The cost of defense can be large as can any settlement or judgment in an action.  The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and could significantly impact our financial results. Regardless of outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense costs, negative publicity, diversion of management resources and other factors.. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions, and our Board adopted a Section 382 Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, any of which could delay or discourage takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider favorable.. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain certain provisions, any of which could render more difficult, or discourage a merger, tender offer, or assumption of control of the Company that is not approved by our Board of Directors that some stockholders may consider favorable.  In addition, on April 20, 2016, our Board acted to preserve the potential benefits of our NOLs from being limited pursuant to Section 382 of the Code by adopting a Section 382 Tax Benefits Preservation Plan (the \"Section 382 Tax Benefits Preservation Plan\"). The principal reason our Board adopted the Section 382 Tax Benefits Preservation Plan is that we believe that the NOLs are a potentially valuable asset and the Board believes it is in the Company's best interests to attempt to protect this asset by preventing the imposition of limitations on their use. While the Section 382 Tax Benefits Preservation Plan is not principally intended to prevent a takeover, it does have a potential anti-takeover effect because an \"acquiring person\" thereunder may be diluted upon the occurrence of a triggering event. Accordingly, the overall effects of the Section 382 Tax Benefits Preservation Plan may be to render more difficult, or discourage a merger, tender offer, or assumption of control by a substantial holder of our securities. The Section 382 Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, however, should not interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board.. 13. Table of Contents"
