[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements contained in this report or in our other filings with the SEC. Some of these risks and uncertainties are discussed below. If any of the following risks, or other risks and uncertainties, actually occurred, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We depend on payments from third-party payors, including government healthcare programs and managed care organizations. If these payments are reduced or eliminated, our revenue and profitability could be materially and adversely affected.. We depend upon private and governmental third-party sources of payment for the services provided by physicians in our physician network, to patients in our surgical facilities and by our laboratory and diagnostic services. The amount that we receive in payment for our services may be adversely affected by market and cost factors that we do not control, including Medicare, Medicaid and state regulation changes, cost containment decisions and changes in reimbursement schedules of payors, legislative changes, refinements to the Medicare Ambulatory Surgery Center payment system and refinements made by CMS to Medicare's reimbursement policies. For instance, cuts to the federal budget caused a 2.0% reduction in Medicare provider payments starting in 2013. Similarly, third-party payors may be successful in negotiating reduced reimbursement schedules with our facilities. Fixed fee schedules, capitation payment arrangements, exclusion from participation in or inability to reach agreements with managed care programs, reduction or elimination of payments or an increase in the payments at a rate that is less than the increase in our costs, or other factors affecting payments for healthcare services over which we have no control could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to negotiate and enter into favorable contracts or maintain satisfactory relationships and renew existing contracts on favorable terms with managed care organizations or other private third-party payors, our revenue and profitability may decrease.. Payments from private third-party payors, including state workers' compensation programs and managed care organizations, represented approximately 54%, 52% and 55% of our patient service revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Most of these payments came from third-party payors with which our facilities have contracts. Managed care companies such as HMOs and PPOs, which offer prepaid and discounted medical service packages, represent a growing segment of private third-party payors. If we fail to enter into favorable contracts or maintain satisfactory relationships with managed care organizations, our revenue may decrease. Our competitive position has been, and will continue to be, affected by initiatives undertaken during the past several years by major purchasers of healthcare services, including insurance companies and employers, to revise payment methods and monitor healthcare expenditures in an effort to contain healthcare costs. For instance, managed care payors may lower reimbursement rates in response to increased obligations on payors imposed by the Affordable Care Act or future reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates. Further, managed care payors may narrow their provider networks in response to the need to negotiate lower reimbursement rates with providers. If we are unable to maintain strong relationships with payors, we may not be able to ensure participation in these narrow provider networks. Cost containment measures, such as fixed fee schedules, capitation payment arrangements, reductions in reimbursement schedules by third-party payors and closed provider networks, could also cause a reduction of our revenue in the future.. Some of our payments from third-party payors come from third-party payors with which our surgical facilities, physicians or subsidiaries that provide diagnostic services do not have a contract. In those cases where we provide services to a patient that does not use a third-party payor with which we have contracted, commonly known as \"out-of-network\" services, we generally charge the patients the same co-payment or other patient responsibility amounts that we would have charged had our surgical facilities had a contract with the payor. In accordance with insurance laws and regulations, we submit a claim for the services to the payor along with full disclosure that our surgical facility has charged the patient an in-network patient responsibility amount. Historically, those third-party payors who do not have contracts with our surgical facilities typically have paid our claims at higher than comparable contracted rates. However, over the past five years we have observed an increase in third-party payors adopting out-of-network fee schedules that are more comparable to our contracted rates or to take other steps to discourage their enrollees from seeking treatment at out-of-network surgical facilities. We are not always successful in securing contracts with payors. If the proportion of our services subject to out-of-network fee schedules increases, we may experience a decrease in volume at our ASCs due to fewer referrals of out-of-network patients.. Payments from workers' compensation payors represented approximately 5% of our patient service revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. A majority of states have implemented workers' compensation provider fee schedules. In some cases, the fee schedule rates contain lower rates than the rates our surgical facilities have historically been paid for the same services. If states reduce the amounts paid to providers under the workers' compensation fee schedules, it could have an adverse impact on our operating results.. Significant changes in our payor mix or surgical case mix resulting from fluctuations in the types of cases performed at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Our results may change from period to period due to fluctuations in payor mix or surgical case mix or other factors relating to the type of cases performed by physicians at our facilities. Payor mix refers to the relative share of total cases provided to patients with no insurance, commercial insurance, Medicare coverage, Medicaid coverage and workers' compensation insurance, respectively. Since, generally speaking, we receive relatively higher payment rates from commercial and workers' compensation insurers than Medicare, Medicaid and other. 15. Table of Contents. government-funded programs, a significant shift in our payor mix toward a higher percentage of Medicare and Medicaid cases, which could occur for reasons beyond our control, could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Surgical case mix refers to the relative share of total cases performed by specialty, such as GI, general surgery, ophthalmology, orthopedic and pain management. Generally speaking, certain types of our cases, such as orthopedic cases, generate relatively higher revenue than other types of cases, such as pain management and GI cases. Therefore, a significant shift in our surgical case mix toward a higher percentage of lower revenue cases, which could occur for reasons beyond our control, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. As we operate in multiple markets, each with a different competitive landscape, shifts within our payor mix or surgical case mix may not be uniform across all of our affiliated facilities. Rather, these shifts may be concentrated within certain markets due to local competitive factors. Therefore, the results of our individual affiliated facilities, including facilities that are material to our results, may be volatile, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. We have a history of net losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future.. We had a net loss attributable to Surgery Partners, Inc. of $53.0 million and had net income of $9.5 million and $1.4 million, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We cannot assure you that our revenue will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Growth of our revenue may slow or revenue may decline and expenses may increase for a number of possible reasons, including reduced demand for our services, regulatory shifts, failure to successfully continue to integrate the operations of Surgery Partners and NSH and other risks and uncertainties. Even though we have achieved profitability during 2016 and 2015, we may not achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our ability to achieve profitability will be affected by the other risks and uncertainties described in this section and in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" All of these factors could contribute to future net losses and, if we are unable to meet these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business may suffer. If we are not able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability, our business will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline.. We may be unable to fully realize the anticipated benefits of the NSH Merger if we do not successfully integrate our operations with those of NSH and we may not realize the anticipated synergies and cost savings from our combination. If the NSH Merger does not achieve its intended results, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The integration of NSH into our operations is a significant undertaking requiring significant attention from our management team. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees and customer relationships, the disruption of each company's ongoing businesses, processes, and systems, additional operating expenses as a result of the integration of operations, potential impairment of intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the NSH Merger, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies, and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the NSH Merger. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Actual synergies may be lower than we currently expect, or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. In addition, we must achieve the anticipated savings, synergies and benefits without adversely affecting current revenues, earnings and investments in future growth. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the NSH Merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon our revenues, earnings, level of expenses and operating results, which may adversely affect the value of our common and preferred stock.. The integration may be complex and time consuming, and could require substantial resources and effort by management and others. The ongoing integration process may also disrupt our business or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with employees, business partners, customers and others with whom we have business or other dealings, or limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the NSH Merger. In addition, any difficulties in integrating the businesses could harm our reputation. If we are unable to successfully combine our business with that of NSH in an efficient, effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the NSH Merger may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.. We depend on physician utilization of our surgical facilities, which could decrease if we fail to maintain good relationships with affiliated physicians. Our ability to provide medical services at our facilities would be impaired and our revenue reduced if we are not able to maintain these relationships.. Our business depends, among other things, upon the efforts and success of affiliated physicians who provide medical services at our surgical facilities and the strength of our relationships with these physicians. Most physicians are not employees of our surgical facilities and are not contractually required to use our facilities. We generally do not enter into contracts with physicians who use our surgical facilities, other than partnership and operating agreements with physicians who own interests in our surgical facilities, provider agreements with anesthesiology groups that provide anesthesiology services in our surgical facilities, medical director agreements, among others. Physicians who use our surgical facilities also use other facilities or hospitals and may choose to perform procedures in an office-based setting that might otherwise be performed at our surgical facilities. In recent years, pain management and gastrointestinal procedures have been performed increasingly in an office-based setting because of potential cost savings or better access. Although physicians who own interests in our surgical facilities are subject to agreements restricting ownership of competing facilities, these agreements may not restrict procedures performed in a physician office or in other unrelated facilities. Also, these agreements restricting ownership of competing facilities are difficult to enforce, and we may be unsuccessful in preventing physicians who own interests in our surgical facilities from acquiring interests in competing facilities.. 16. Table of Contents. The financial success of our facilities is in part dependent upon the volume of procedures performed by the physicians who use our facilities, which is affected by the economy, healthcare reform, increases in patient co-payments and deductibles and other factors outside our or their control. The physicians who use our surgical facilities may choose not to accept patients who pay for services through certain third-party payors, which could reduce our revenue. From time to time, we may have disputes with physicians who use our surgical facilities and/or own interests in our surgical facilities or our Company. Our revenue and profitability could be significantly reduced if we lost our relationship with one or more key physicians or groups of physicians, or if such physicians or groups reduce their use of any of our surgical facilities. In addition, any damage to the reputation of a key physician or group of physicians or the failure of these physicians to provide quality medical care or adhere to professional guidelines at our surgical facilities could damage our reputation, subject us to liability and significantly reduce our revenue.. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we and our subsidiaries had approximately $2.2 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, which includes $1.3 billion principal amount of senior secured term loans (the \"Term Loan\") outstanding, $400.0 million senior unsecured notes due 2021 (the \"2021 Unsecured Notes\") and $370.0 million senior unsecured notes due 2025 (the \"2025 Unsecured Notes\"). As of December 31, 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings under our $75.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the \"Revolver\" and, together with the Term Loan, the \"Senior Secured Credit Facilities\" and, together with the 2025 Unsecured Notes and the 2021 Unsecured Notes, the \"Senior Indebtedness\"). After giving effect to the $3.1 million principal amount of outstanding letters of credit issued under our Revolver, we had $71.9 million of unused commitments available to be borrowed under the Revolver. In addition to the Senior Indebtedness, our aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding includes approximately $129.5 million of notes payable and capital lease obligations primarily related to property and equipment for operations. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the risk that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, subject to applicable restrictions under our Senior Indebtedness, we may incur significant additional indebtedness, which may be secured, from time to time, which could have important consequences, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness;. • making us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to making payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in reacting to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; and. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes;. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt service obligations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to pay or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend upon our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash, which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors that are beyond our control.. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to affect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our history of net losses may impair out ability to service our indebtedness or repay outstanding amounts when they become due. In addition, our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.. The 2021 Unsecured Notes, 2025 Unsecured Notes and Senior Secured Credit Facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions and limit the ability of us and our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness;. 17. Table of Contents. • pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. • make loans and investments;. • sell or otherwise dispose of assets;. • sell stock of our subsidiaries;. • incur liens;. • enter into transactions with affiliates;. • enter into agreements restricting certain of our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As a result of these and other covenants and restrictions, we are and will be limited in how we conduct our business, and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition, we may be required to maintain specified financial maintenance ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests in connection with the Senior Indebtedness. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above as well as others contained in our future debt instruments from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their maturity. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated revenue growth and operating improvements will be realized or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Term Loans and Revolving Facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms, if at all.. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. Although the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indentures governing each of the 2021 Unsecured Notes and 2025 Unsecured Notes, respectively, contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.. In addition, as of December 31, 2017 we had approximately $71.9 million available for additional borrowings under the Revolver (after giving effect to the $3.1 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding letters of credit issued under our Revolver at such time). If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we face would be increased.. We are a holding company with no operations of our own.. We are a holding company, and our ability to service our debt is dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries that operate the surgical facilities. The effect of this structure is that we depend on the earnings of our subsidiaries, and the distribution or payment to us of a portion of these earnings to meet our obligations, including those under the Term Loans and Revolving Facility and any of our other debt obligations. The distributions of those earnings or advances or other distributions of funds by these entities to us, all of which are contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings, are subject to various business considerations. In addition, distributions by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory restrictions, including state laws requiring that such subsidiaries be solvent, or contractual restrictions. Some of our subsidiaries may become subject to agreements that restrict the sale of assets and significantly restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends or the making of distributions, loans or other payments to stockholders, partners or members.. We make significant loans to, and are generally liable for debts and other obligations of, the partnerships and limited liability companies that own and operate some of our surgical facilities.. We own and operate our surgical facilities through limited partnerships and limited liability companies. Local physicians, physician groups and healthcare systems also own an interest in all but three of these partnerships and limited liability companies. In the partnerships in which we are the general partner, we are liable for 100% of the debts and other obligations of the partnership, even if we do not own all of the partnership interests. For some of our surgical facilities, indebtedness at the partnership level is funded through intercompany loans that we provide. At December 31, 2017, our intercompany loans totaled $39.0 million. Through these loans we may have a security interest in the partnership's or limited liability company's assets, depending upon the terms thereof in each instance. However, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected if our surgical facilities are unable to repay these intercompany loans, or such loans are challenged under certain health care laws. Additionally, at December 31, 2017, our global intercompany note, which we use to transfer debt balances between our subsidiaries, had a $3.0 million balance.. 18. Table of Contents. Although most of our intercompany loans are secured by the assets of the partnership or limited liability company, the physicians and physician groups that own an interest in these partnerships and limited liability companies generally do not guarantee a pro rata amount of this debt or the other obligations of these partnerships and limited liability companies.. From time to time, we may guarantee our pro-rata share of the third-party debts and other obligations of our non-wholly owned non-consolidated partnerships and limited liability companies in which we own an interest in an amount proportionate to our pro rata share of the equity interests issued by such entity. In such instances, the physicians and/or physician groups typically also guarantee their pro-rata share of such indebtedness.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease.. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations.. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities are guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, by SP Holdco I, Inc. and each of Surgery Center Holdings, Inc.'s current and future wholly-owned domestic restricted subsidiaries (subject to certain exceptions) (the \"Subsidiary Guarantors\") and are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of Surgery Center Holdings, Inc.'s, SP Holdco I, Inc.'s and the Subsidiary Guarantors' assets (subject to certain exceptions).. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (x) LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 3.00% to 3.25% per annum, depending on the Company's first lien net leverage ratio or (y) an alternate base rate (which will be the highest of (i) the prime rate, (ii) 0.50% per annum above the federal funds effective rate and (iii) one-month LIBOR plus 1.00% per annum (solely with respect to the Term Loan, the alternate base rate shall not be less than 2.00% per annum)) plus a margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.25% per annum. In addition, the Company is required to pay a commitment fee of 0.50% per annum in respect of unused commitments under the Revolver. The 2021 Unsecured Notes bear interest at the rate of 8.875% per year. The 2025 Unsecured Notes bear interest at the rate of 6.750% per year.. Physician treatment methodologies and governmental or commercial health insurance controls designed to reduce the number of surgical procedures may reduce our revenue and profitability.. Controls imposed by Medicare and Medicaid, employer-sponsored healthcare plans and commercial health insurance payors designed to reduce surgical volumes, in some instances referred to as \"utilization review,\" could adversely affect our facilities. Although we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees may reduce our revenue and profitability. Additionally, trends in physician treatment protocols and commercial health insurance plan design, such as plans that shift increased costs and accountability for care to patients, could reduce our surgical volumes in favor of lower intensity and lower cost treatment methodologies, each of which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to integrate operations of acquired surgical facilities, attract new physician partners, and to acquire and develop additional surgical facilities, on favorable terms. If we are unable to achieve any of these goals, our future growth could be limited and our operating results could be adversely affected.. We believe that an important component of our financial performance and growth is our ability to provide physicians who use our facilities with the opportunity to purchase ownership interests in our facilities. We may not be successful in attracting new physician investment in our surgical facilities, and that failure could result in a reduction in the quality, efficiency and profitability of our facilities. Based on competitive factors and market conditions, physicians may be able to negotiate relatively higher levels of equity ownership in our facilities, consequently limiting or reducing our share of the profits from these facilities. In addition, physician ownership in our facilities is subject to certain regulatory restrictions.. In addition, our growth strategy includes the acquisition and development of existing surgical facilities and the development of new surgical facilities jointly with local physicians and, in some cases, healthcare systems and other strategic partners. We have acquired interests in or developed all of our surgical facilities since our inception and we expect to continue to expand our operations in the future. We are currently evaluating potential acquisitions and development projects and expect to continue to evaluate acquisitions and development projects in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy in the future, our future growth could be limited. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition and development opportunities, or to complete acquisitions and new projects in a timely manner and on favorable terms. Further, the businesses or assets we acquire in the future may not ultimately produce returns that justify our related investment.. Our acquisition activities, and our limited development activities, require substantial capital resources, and we may need to obtain additional capital or financing, from time to time, to fund these activities. Historically, we have funded acquisition and development activities through our credit facilities. As a result, we may take actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition, including incurring substantial debt with certain restrictive terms. Further, sufficient capital or financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, our ability to acquire and develop additional surgical facilities may be. 19. Table of Contents. limited by state certificate of need programs, licensure requirements, antitrust laws, and other regulatory restrictions on expansion. We also face significant competition from local, regional and national health systems and other owners of surgical facilities in pursuing attractive acquisition candidates. The limited number of surgical facilities we develop typically incur losses in their early months of operation (more so in the case of surgical hospitals) and, until their case loads grow, they generally experience lower total revenue and operating margins than established surgical facilities, and we expect this trend to continue.. If we are not successful in integrating newly acquired surgical facilities, we may not realize the potential benefits of such acquisitions. Likewise, if we are not able to integrate acquired facilities' operations and personnel with ours in a timely and efficient manner, then the potential benefits of the transaction may not be realized. Further, any delays or unexpected costs incurred in connection with integration could have a material adverse effect on our operations and earnings. In particular, if we experience the loss of key personnel or if the effort devoted to the integration of acquired facilities diverts significant management or other resources from other operational activities, our operations could be impaired.. If we acquire or develop additional facilities, we may experience difficulty in retaining or integrating their operations, key physicians, systems and personnel. In some acquisitions, we may have to renegotiate, or risk losing, one or more of the facility's commercial payor contracts. We may also be unable to immediately collect the accounts receivable of an acquired facility while we align the payors' payment systems and accounts with our own systems. Certain transactions can require licensure changes which, in turn, result in disruptions in payment for services.. In addition, although we conduct extensive due diligence prior to the acquisition of surgical facilities and seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering unknown or contingent liabilities, we may acquire facilities with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although we maintain professional liability insurance that provides coverage on a claims-made basis of $1.0 million per occurrence with a retention of $100,000 per occurrence and $3.0 million in annual aggregate coverage per surgical facility, as well as an additional umbrella liability insurance policy in the aggregate amount of $33.0 million, we do not maintain insurance specifically covering all unknown or contingent liabilities that may have occurred prior to the acquisition of facilities. In some cases, our right to indemnification for these liabilities from the seller may be subject to negotiated limits or limits on our ability to enforce indemnification rights.. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, increased demands on our management, operational and financial information systems and other resources. Furthermore, expansions into new geographic markets and services may require us to comply with new and unfamiliar legal and regulatory requirements, which could impose substantial obligations on us and our management, cause us to expend additional time and resources, and increase our exposure to penalties or fines for non-compliance with such requirements. To accommodate our past and anticipated future growth, and to compete effectively, we will need to continue to improve our management, operational and financial information systems and to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. Our personnel, systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations in the future. Further, focusing our financial resources and management attention on the expansion of our operations may negatively impact our financial results. Any failure to improve our management, operational and financial information systems, or to expand, train, manage or motivate our workforce, could reduce or prevent our growth.. Shortages of surgery-related products, equipment and medical supplies and quality control issues with such products, equipment and medical supplies could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our case volume, surgical case mix and profitability.. Our operations depend significantly upon our ability to obtain sufficient surgery-related products, drugs, equipment and medical supplies from suppliers on a timely basis. If we are unable to obtain such necessary products, or if we fail to properly manage existing inventory levels, the surgical facilities may be unable to perform certain surgeries, which could adversely affect case volume or result in a negative shift in surgical case mix. In addition, as a result of shortages, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions, disruptions in cash flows, increased costs and reductions in profitability. At times, supply shortages have occurred in our industry, and such shortages may be expected to recur from time to time.. Medical supplies and services can also be subject to supplier product quality control incidents and recalls. In addition to contributing to materials shortages, product quality can affect patient care and safety. Material quality control incidents have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, for reasons beyond our control, and such incidents can negatively impact case volume, product costs and our reputation. In addition, we may have to incur costs to resolve quality control incidents related to medical supplies and services regardless of whether they were caused by us. Our inability to obtain the necessary amount and quality of surgery-related products, equipment and medical supplies due to a quality control incident or recall could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. We face competition for patients, physicians and commercial payor contracts.. The healthcare business is highly competitive and each of the individual geographic areas in which we operate has a different competitive landscape. In each of our markets we compete with other healthcare providers for patients and in contracting with commercial payors. In addition, because the number of physicians available to utilize and invest in our facilities is finite, we face intense competition from other surgery centers, hospitals, health systems and other healthcare providers in recruiting physicians to utilize and invest in our facilities. We are in competition with other surgery centers, hospitals and healthcare systems in the communities we serve to attract patients and provide them with the care they need.. 20. Table of Contents. There are also unaffiliated hospitals in each market in which we operate. These hospitals have established relationships with physicians and payors. In addition, other companies either currently are in the same or similar business of developing, acquiring and operating surgical facilities or may decide to enter our business. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do, including financial, marketing, staff and capital resources. We also may compete with some of these companies for entry into strategic relationships with healthcare systems and healthcare professionals. In addition, many physician groups develop surgical facilities without a corporate partner. In recent years, more physicians are choosing to perform procedures, including pain management and gastrointestinal procedures, in an office-based setting rather than in a surgical facility. If we are unable to compete effectively with any of these entities or groups, we may be unable to implement our business strategies successfully and our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Competition for physicians and nurses, shortages of qualified personnel or other factors could increase our labor costs and adversely affect our revenue, profitability and cash flows.. Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our physicians and clinical personnel. We compete with other healthcare providers, primarily hospitals and other surgical facilities, in attracting physicians to utilize our surgical facilities, nurses and medical staff to support our surgical facilities, recruiting and retaining qualified management and support personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our facilities and in contracting with managed care payors in each of our markets. In some markets, the lack of availability of clinical personnel, such as nurses, has become a significant operating issue facing all healthcare providers. This shortage may require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified personnel or to contract for more expensive temporary personnel. For the year-ended December 31, 2017, our salary and benefit expenses represented approximately 31% of our revenue. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled workers in each of the markets in which we operate.. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a significant percentage of our revenue consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is limited. In particular, if labor costs rise at an annual rate greater than our net annual consumer price index basket update from Medicare, our results of operations and cash flows will likely be adversely affected. Any union activity at our facilities that may occur in the future could contribute to increased labor costs. Certain proposed changes in federal labor laws and the National Labor Relations Board's modification of its election procedures could increase the likelihood of employee unionization attempts. Although none of our employees are currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement, to the extent a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, it is possible our labor costs could increase materially. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management and medical personnel, or to control our labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Some jurisdictions preclude us from entering into non-compete agreements with our physicians, and other non-compete agreements and restrictive covenants applicable to certain physicians and other clinical employees may not be enforceable.. We have contracts with physicians and other health professionals in many states. Some of our physician services contracts, as well as many of our physician services contracts with hospitals, include provisions preventing these physicians and other health professionals from competing with us both during and after the term of our contract with them. The law governing non-compete agreements and other forms of restrictive covenants varies from state to state. Some jurisdictions prohibit us from entering into non-compete agreements with our professional staff. Other states are reluctant to strictly enforce non-compete agreements and restrictive covenants against physicians and other healthcare professionals. Therefore, there can be no assurance that our non-compete agreements related to employed or otherwise contracted physicians and other health professionals will be enforceable if challenged in certain states. In such event, we would be unable to prevent former employed or otherwise contracted physicians and other health professionals from competing with us, potentially resulting in the loss of some of our hospital contracts and other business. Additionally, certain facilities have the right to employ or engage our providers after the termination or expiration of our contract with those facilities and cause us not to enforce our non-compete provisions related to those providers.. We may become involved in litigation which could negatively impact the value of our business.. From time-to-time we are involved in lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations, including those arising out of services provided, personal injury claims, professional liability claims, billing and marketing practices, employment disputes and contractual claims. We may become subject to future lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations that could result in substantial costs and divert our attention and resources and adversely affect our business condition. In addition, since our current growth strategy includes acquisitions, among other things, we may become exposed to legal claims for the activities of an acquired business prior to the acquisition. These lawsuits, claims, audits or investigations, regardless of their merit or outcome, may also adversely affect our reputation and ability to expand our business.. In addition, from time to time we have received, and expect to continue to receive, correspondence from former employees terminated by us who threaten to bring claims against us alleging that we have violated one or more labor and employment regulations. In certain instances former employees have brought claims against us and we expect that we will encounter similar actions against us in the future. An adverse outcome in any such litigation could require us to pay contractual damages, compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys' fees and costs.. If we become subject to large malpractice or other legal claims, we could be required to pay significant damages, which may not be covered by insurance.. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability or related legal theories. Many of these actions involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. We also owe certain defense and indemnity obligations to our officers and directors.. 21. Table of Contents. We maintain liability insurance in amounts that we believe are customary for the industry. We maintain general liability insurance that provides coverage on a occurrence basis of $1.0 million per occurrence with a retention of $25,000 per occurrence and $3.0 million in annual aggregate coverage per surgical facility. We also maintain business interruption insurance and property damage insurance, as well as an additional umbrella liability insurance policy in the aggregate amount of $33.0 million. Coverage under certain of these policies is contingent upon the policy being in effect when a claim is made regardless of when the events which caused the claim occurred. In addition, physicians who provide professional services in our surgical facilities are required to maintain separate malpractice coverage with similar minimum coverage limits. We also maintain a directors' and officers' insurance policy, which insures our directors and officers against unindemnified losses arising from certain wrongful acts in their capacities as directors and officers and reimburses us for those losses for which we have lawfully indemnified the directors and officers.. This insurance coverage may not cover all claims against us. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. If one or more successful claims against us were not covered by or exceeded the coverage of our insurance, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business, profitability and growth prospects could suffer if we face negative publicity or we pay damages or defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope or limits of coverage of any applicable insurance coverage, including claims related to adverse patient events, contractual disputes, professional and general liability, and directors' and officers' duties.. In addition, if our costs of insurance and claims increase, then our earnings could decline. Market rates for insurance premiums and deductibles have been steadily increasing. Our earnings and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of the following:. • the collapse or insolvency of our insurance carriers;. • further increases in premiums and deductibles;. • increases in the number of liability claims against us or the cost of settling or trying cases related to those claims; or. • an inability to obtain one or more types of insurance on acceptable terms, if at all.. Financial pressures on patients, and current and future economic condition, may adversely affect our volume and surgical case mix.. Even as the U.S. economy shows signs of sustained, if modest, growth, many individuals throughout the country continue to experience difficult financial conditions. Our case volume and surgical case mix may be adversely affected by patients' unwillingness to pay for procedures in our facilities. Higher numbers of unemployed individuals generally translates into more individuals without healthcare insurance to help pay for procedures, thereby increasing the potential for persons to elect not to have procedures performed. Even procedures normally thought to be non-elective may be delayed or may not be performed if the patient cannot afford the procedure due to a lack of insurance or money to pay their portion of our facilities' fee. Although we have taken steps to minimize the impact of these conditions, it is difficult to predict the degree to which our business will continue to be impacted by such conditions or the course of the economy in the future.. In addition, the difficult conditions of the U.S. economy have adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the budgets of individual states and the federal government, which has resulted in and could continue to result in attempts to reduce payments made to us by federal and state government healthcare programs, including Medicare, military services, Medicaid and workers' compensation programs, a reduction in the scope of services covered by those programs and an increase in taxes and assessments on our activities. Additionally, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the Affordable Care Act, and any such result could adversely affect our business by exacerbating the financial pressures on patients, leading them to further delay or cancel non-emergency surgical procedures.. Our surgical facilities are sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in the states where they are located. In addition, three of our surgical facilities account for a significant portion of our patient service revenue.. Our revenue is particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in the states of Florida and Texas. As of December 31, 2017, we owned and operated 9 consolidated surgical facilities in Texas and 23 consolidated surgical facilities in Florida. The Texas facilities represented approximately 14% of our revenue in fiscal 2017 and the Florida facilities represented approximately 12% of our revenue in fiscal 2017.. In addition, our surgical hospital in Idaho Falls, Idaho represented 19% of our revenue during fiscal 2017. This surgical hospital also provides ancillary services, including physician practices, radiation oncology and anesthesia services. If there were an adverse regulatory, economic or other development in any of the states in which we have a higher concentration of facilities, including Idaho, our case volumes could decline in such states or there could be other unanticipated adverse impacts on our business in those states, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If any of our existing healthcare facilities lose their accreditation status or any of our new facilities fail to receive accreditation, such facilities could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid or other third-party payors.. The construction and operation of healthcare facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and environmental protection. Additionally, such facilities are subject to periodic inspection by government authorities and accreditation organizations to assure their continued compliance with these various standards.. 22. Table of Contents. All of our facilities are deemed certified, meaning that they are accredited, properly licensed under the relevant state laws and regulations and certified under the Medicare program or are in the process of applying for such accreditation, licensing or certification. The effect of maintaining certified facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We believe that all of our facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and other relevant accreditation and certification regulations and standards. However, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their deemed certified status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medicaid programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either or both of those programs, and possibly from other third-party payors, and our business could be materially adversely affected.. Certain of our partnership and operating agreements contain provisions giving rights to our partners and other members that may be adverse to our interests.. Certain of the agreements governing the limited partnerships (\"LPs\"), general partnerships (\"GP\") and limited liability companies (\"LLCs\") through which we own and operate our facilities contain provisions that give our partners or other members rights that may, in certain circumstances, be adverse to our interests. These rights include, but are not limited to, rights to purchase our interest in the partnership or LLC, rights to require us to purchase the interests of our partners or other members, or rights requiring the consent of our partners and other members prior to our transferring our ownership interest in a facility or prior to a change in control of us or certain of our subsidiaries. With respect to these purchase rights, the agreements generally include a specified formula or methodology to determine the applicable purchase price, which may or may not reflect fair market value.. Additionally, many of our partnership and operating agreements contain restrictions on actions that we can take, even though we may be the general partner or the managing member. Examples of these restrictions include the rights of our partners and other members to approve the sale of substantially all of the assets of the partnership or LLC, to dissolve the partnership or LLC, to appoint a new or additional general partner or managing member and to amend the partnership or operating agreements. Many of our agreements also restrict our ability in certain instances to compete with our existing facilities or with our partners. Where we hold only a limited partner or a non-managing member interest, the general partner or managing member may take certain actions without our consent, although we typically have certain protective rights to approve major decisions such as the sale of substantially all of the assets of the entity, dissolution of the partnership or LLC and the amendment of the partnership or operating agreement. These management and governance rights held by our partners and other members limit and restrict our ability to make unilateral decisions about the management and operation of the facilities without the approval of our partners and other members.. We may have a special legal responsibility to the holders of ownership interests in the entities through which we own our facilities, which may conflict with, and prevent us from acting solely in, our own best interests or the interests of our stockholders.. We generally hold our ownership interests in facilities through limited or general partnerships, LLCs or limited liability partnerships (\"LLPs\") in which we maintain an ownership interest along with physicians and, in some cases, physicians and health systems. As general partner and manager of most of these entities, we may have a special responsibility, known as a fiduciary duty, to manage these entities in the best interests of the other owners. We also have a duty to operate our business for the benefit of our stockholders. As a result, we may encounter conflicts between our responsibility to the other owners and our responsibility to our stockholders. For example, we have entered into management agreements to provide management services to our surgical facilities in exchange for a fee. Disputes may arise as to the nature of the services to be provided or the amount of the fee to be paid. In these cases, we may be obligated to exercise reasonable, good faith judgment to resolve the disputes and may not be free to act solely in our own best interests or the stockholders best interest. Disputes may also arise between us and our physician investors with respect to a particular business decision or regarding the interpretation of the provisions of the applicable partnership or limited liability company agreement. We seek to avoid these disputes but have not implemented any measures to resolve these conflicts if they arise. If we are unable to resolve a dispute on terms favorable or satisfactory to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Growth of patient receivables or deterioration in the ability to collect on these accounts, due to changes in economic conditions or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. The current practice of providing medical services in advance of payment or, in many cases, prior to assessment of ability to pay for such services, may have significant negative impact on our revenue, bad debt expense and cash flow. We bill numerous and varied payors, such as self-pay patients, managed care payors and Medicare and Medicaid. These different payors typically have different billing requirements that must be satisfied prior to receiving payment for services rendered. Reimbursement is typically conditioned on our documenting medical necessity and correctly applying diagnosis codes. Incorrect or incomplete documentation and billing information could result in non-payment for services rendered. The primary collection risks with respect to our patient receivables relate to patient accounts for which the primary third-party payor has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding.. Additional factors that could complicate our billing include:. • disputes between payors as to which party is responsible for payment;. • failure of information systems and processes to submit and collect claims in a timely manner;. • variation in coverage for similar services among various payors;. 23. Table of Contents. • the difficulty of adherence to specific compliance requirements, diagnosis coding and other procedures mandated by various payors; and. • failure to obtain proper physician credentialing and documentation in order to bill various payors.. We provide for bad debts principally based upon the type of payor and the age of the receivables. Our allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2017 represented 1% of our accounts receivable balance. Due to the difficulty in assessing future trends, including the effects of changes in economic conditions, we could be required to increase our provision for doubtful accounts. An increase in the amount of patient receivables or a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. The loss of certain physicians can have a disproportionate impact on certain of our facilities.. Generally, the top referring physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our revenue and admissions. The loss of one or more of these physicians, even if temporary, could cause a material reduction in our revenue, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians.. We may write-off intangible assets, such as goodwill.. As a result of purchase accounting for our various acquisition transactions, including the NSH Merger, our balance sheet at December 31, 2017 contained intangible assets designated as either goodwill or intangibles totaling approximately $3.3 billion in goodwill and approximately $58.9 million in intangibles. Any other additional acquisitions that result in the recognition of additional intangible assets would cause an increase in these intangible assets. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of the value of intangible assets. As circumstances change, we cannot assure you that the value of these intangible assets will be realized by us. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs.. We may be limited in our ability to utilize, or may not be able to utilize, net operating loss carryforwards to reduce our future tax liability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. federal net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards of approximately $507.4 million and state NOL carryforwards of approximately $619.6 million, which may be limited annually due to certain change in ownership provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). In addition, as a result of the Symbion acquisition, approximately $179 million in NOL carryforwards are subject to an annual Section 382 base limitation of $4.9 million, and, as a result of the Novamed acquisition, approximately $17 million in NOL carryforwards are subject to an annual Section 382 base limitation of $4.9 million. As a result of the NSH acquisition, approximately $20.5 million in NOL carryforwards are subject to an annual Section 382 base limitation of $2.8 million. Further, the sale of H.I.G.'s shares to Bain Capital in connection with the Transactions resulted in an ownership change as defined in Section 382. As a result, we will not be able to use our pre-ownership-change NOLs in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 382. These limitations, when combined with amounts allowable due to net unrecognized built in gains, are not expected to impact the realization of the deferred tax assets associated with these NOLs. Our federal NOL carryforwards will begin to expire in 2025 and will completely expire in 2037, and our state NOL carryforwards will begin to expire in 2018 and will completely expire in 2037. Future ownership changes may subject our NOL carryforwards to further annual limitations, which could restrict our ability to use them to offset our taxable income in periods following the ownership changes.. We entered into a tax receivable agreement that will require us to make payments to the pre-IPO owners of Surgery Center Holdings, LLC (the \"Pre-IPO Owners\"), which amounts are expected to be material.. On September 30, 2015, Surgery Partners, Inc. became the direct parent and sole member of Surgery Center Holdings, LLC (the \"Reorganization\"). We indirectly acquired favorable tax attributes in connection with the Reorganization. These tax attributes would not be available to us in the absence of the consummation of the Reorganization. As part of the Reorganization, we entered into a tax receivable agreement. In connection with the Transactions completed in in August 2017, we entered into an agreement to amend the TRA (as amended, the \"TRA\"), which became effective on August 31, 2017.. Pursuant the TRA, we agreed to make annual payments to H.I.G. in its capacity as the stockholders representative on behalf of the other pre-Reorganization stockholders pursuant to a fixed payment schedule. The final payment is scheduled to be made in 2024. The amounts payable under the TRA are calculated to equal the product of (i) an annual base amount and (ii) the sum of (x) the maximum corporate federal income tax rate for the applicable year and (y) three percent. The amounts payable under the TRA are related to our projected realized tax savings over the next five years and are not dependent on our actual tax savings over the next five years. The calculations of amounts payable pursuant to the TRA is thus dependent on the maximum corporate federal income tax rate. To the extent that we are unable to make payments under the TRA and such inability is a result of the terms of credit agreements and other debt documents that are materially more restrictive than those existing as of September 30, 2015, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 500 basis points until paid. If the terms of such credit agreements and other debt documents cause us to be unable to make payments under the TRA and such terms are not materially more restrictive than those existing as of September 30, 2015, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 300 basis points until paid. We estimate that the total remaining amounts payable under the TRA as of December 31, 2017 may be as high as $65.1 million, but the ultimate amounts payable are likely to vary if there are further changes in law as to the income tax rates applicable to domestic corporations.. 24. Table of Contents. Unanticipated changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, and our domestic tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the Code, including:. • reducing the highest marginal U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017;. • limiting the extent to which net operating losses can be utilized against taxable income that would apply to losses created after December 31, 2017;. • changing rules related to the ability to apply net operating losses against later or earlier tax years that would apply to losses created after December 31, 2017;. • creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017;. • eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax (\"AMT\") and changing how existing AMT credits can be realized for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017; and. • generally repealing the performance-based compensation exception to the Section 162(m) $1.0 million deduction limitation and revising the definition of a covered employee for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.. There are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the Tax Act. Additional guidance on the Tax Act is expected; however, the timing, form, scope and content of such guidance is not known. In addition to the changes implemented by the Tax Act and associated regulations and guidance, our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of other factors, including:. • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. • expected timing and amount of the release of any tax valuation allowances;. • tax effects of equity-based compensation;. • costs related to intercompany restructurings;. • changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof; or. • lower than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated future earnings in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory tax rates.. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales and other transaction taxes by U.S. federal, state and local authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our facilities may be adversely impacted by weather and other factors beyond our control, and disruptions in our disaster recovery systems or management continuity planning could limit our ability to operate our business effectively.. The financial results of our facilities may be negatively impacted by adverse weather conditions, such as tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, or other factors beyond our control, such as wildfires. These weather conditions or other factors could disrupt patient scheduling, displace our patients, employees and physician partners and force certain of our facilities to close temporarily or for an extended period of time. In certain markets, we have a large concentration of surgery centers that may be simultaneously affected by adverse weather condition or events beyond our control.. While we have disaster recovery systems and business continuity plans in place, any disruptions in our disaster recovery systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our technology systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or weather related disruptions where our headquarters is located. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our management personnel were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. If we fail to comply with or otherwise incur liabilities under the numerous federal and state laws and regulations relating to the operation of our facilities, we could incur significant penalties or other costs or be required to make significant changes to our operations.. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and we are subject to many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels in the markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations require that our facilities meet various licensing, accreditation, certification and other requirements, including, but not limited to, those relating to:. • ownership and control of our facilities;. 25. Table of Contents. • operating policies and procedures;. • qualification, training and supervision of medical and support persons;. • pricing of, billing for and coding of services and properly handling overpayments, debt collection practices and the submission of false statements or claims;. • the necessity, appropriateness and adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures; maintenance and preservation of medical records;. • financial arrangements between referral sources and our facilities;. • the protection of privacy, including patient and credit card information;. • screening, stabilization and transfer of individuals who have emergency medical conditions and provision of emergency services;. • antitrust;. • building codes;. • workplace health and safety;. • licensure, certification and accreditation;. • fee-splitting and the corporate practice of medicine;. • handling of medication;. • confidentiality, data breach, identity theft and maintenance and protection of health-related and other personal information and medical records; and. • environmental protection, health and safety.. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could subject ourselves to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, cease and desist orders, forfeiture of amounts owed and recoupment of amounts paid to us by governmental or commercial payors, loss of licenses necessary to operate and disqualification from Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored healthcare programs.. Many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are sometimes open to a variety of interpretations. Different interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or require us to make changes in our operations, facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs or operating expenses to comply with the evolving rules. Any enforcement action against us, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. A number of initiatives have been proposed during the past several years to reform various aspects of the healthcare system in the United States. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality, or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. In addition, some of the governmental and regulatory bodies that regulate us are considering or may in the future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements. These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways. All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could detrimentally affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, either of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. We cannot predict the effect that healthcare reform and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Affordable Care Act has changed and continues to change how healthcare services are covered, delivered and reimbursed through, among other things, expanded coverage of uninsured individuals, reduced growth in Medicare program spending and the establishment and expansion of programs tying reimbursement to quality and clinical integration. The Affordable Care Act also reforms certain aspects of health insurance, quality of care and fraud and abuse enforcement.. Substantial uncertainty remains regarding the net effect of the Affordable Care Act on our business because the long-term impact of a number of factors, including the following, remains unclear:. • the responses of individuals, businesses and other market participants to the evolving choices and obligations under the Affordable Care Act;. • the states' decisions whether to implement the Medicaid expansion provisions of the Affordable Care Act, and under what terms;. • the effect of value-based purchasing and other quality programs established under the Affordable Care Act;. • the scope and nature of changes to Medicare reimbursement methods and programs, including accountable care organizations, bundled payment programs and other coordinated care models;. 26. Table of Contents. • the financial sustainability of the Health Insurance Marketplace, which may be impacted by whether a sufficient number of payors participate;. • our ability to participate in health insurance plans offered through the Health Insurance Marketplaces and the terms of our participation;. • the net effect of reductions in federal healthcare program spending under the Affordable Care Act; and. • the resolution of new and ongoing legislative and legal challenges to the Affordable Care Act.. Initiatives to repeal the Affordable Care Act, in whole or in part, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent and have increased as a result of the 2016 election. However, as a result of the enactment of the Tax and Jobs Act of 2017, the \"individual mandate\" was repealed effective as of calendar year 2019. The repeal of the individual mandate and any other future repeal or replacement of the Affordable Care Act may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may cause more individuals to become uninsured, rendering them unable to afford healthcare services offered by the Company.. Because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict the net effect of the Affordable Care Act and other associated changes within the healthcare industry on us or our operations. Depending on how the Affordable Care Act continues to be interpreted, implemented or changed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. If laws governing the corporate practice of medicine or fee-splitting change, we may be required to restructure some of our relationships, which may result in a significant loss of revenue and divert other resources.. The laws of various states in which we operate or may operate in the future do not permit business corporations to practice medicine, to exercise control over or employ physicians who practice medicine or to engage in various business practices, such as fee-splitting with physicians (i.e., sharing in a percentage of professional fees). The interpretation and enforcement of these laws vary significantly from state to state. We provide management services to a physician network. If our arrangements with this network were deemed to violate state corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting or similar laws, or if new laws are enacted rendering our arrangements illegal, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties and could be required to restructure or terminate these arrangements, any of which may result in a significant loss of revenue and divert management and business resources.. If regulations change, we may be obligated to purchase some or all of the ownership of our physician partners or renegotiate some of our partnership and operating agreements with our physician partners and management agreements with surgical facilities.. Upon the occurrence of various fundamental regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations, we may be obligated to purchase all of the ownership of the physician investors in most of the partnerships or limited liability companies that own and operate our surgical facilities. The purchase price that we would be required to pay for the ownership is specified in our partnership agreements and is typically based on either a multiple of the surgical facility's EBITDA, as defined in our partnership and operating agreements with these surgical facilities, or the fair market value of the ownership as determined by a third-party appraisal. The physician investors in some of our surgical facilities can require us to purchase their interests in exchange for cash or shares of our common stock if these regulatory changes occur. In addition, some of our partnership agreements with our physician partners and management agreements with surgical facilities require us to attempt to renegotiate the agreements upon the occurrence of various fundamental regulatory changes or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations and provide for termination of the agreements if renegotiations are not successful.. Regulatory changes that could create purchase or renegotiation obligations include changes that:. • make illegal the referral of Medicare or other patients to our surgical facilities by physician investors;. • create a substantial likelihood that cash distributions to physician investors from the partnerships or limited liability companies through which we operate our surgical facilities would be illegal;. • make illegal the ownership by the physician investors of interests in the partnerships or limited liability companies through which we own and operate our surgical facilities; or. • require us to reduce the aggregate percentage of physician investor ownership in our hospitals.. We do not control whether or when any of these regulatory events might occur. In the event we are required to purchase all of the physicians' ownership, our existing capital resources would not be sufficient for us to meet this obligation. These obligations and the possible termination of our partnership and management agreements would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our revenue will decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or if managed care companies reduce reimbursement amounts. In addition, the financial condition of payors and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our revenue and profitability.. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we derived approximately 38%, 40% and 38% of our revenue, respectively, from government payors, including Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements, among other things; requirements for utilization review; and federal and state funding. 27. Table of Contents. restrictions, any of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the timing of payments to our facilities.. We are unable to predict the effect of future government healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payors are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payors is limited or if we, or any of our surgical facilities, are excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other government-sponsored healthcare programs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. During the past several years, healthcare payors, such as federal and state governments, insurance companies and employers, have undertaken initiatives to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare costs. As part of their efforts to contain healthcare costs, payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk relating to paying for care provided, often in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We expect efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors to continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services.. By way of example, under the Medicare program, physician payments were previously updated on an annual basis according to a statutory formula. Because application of the statutory formula for the update factor would result in a decrease in total physician payments, Congress would intervene with interim legislation on an annual basis to prevent the reductions. In April 2015, however, MACRA, was signed into law, which repealed and replaced the statutory formula for Medicare payment adjustments to physicians. MACRA provides a permanent end to the annual interim legislative updates that had previously been necessary to delay or prevent significant reductions to payments under the MPFS. MACRA extended previous payment rates through June 30, 2015, with a 0.5% update for each calendar year through 2018. In addition, MACRA requires the establishment of MIPS, beginning in 2019, under which physicians may receive performance-based payment incentives or payment reductions based on their performance with respect to clinical quality, resource use, clinical improvement activities and meaningful use of electronic health records. For more information on the implementation of MACRA, see \"Business - Sources of Revenue - Ancillary and Optical Services.\". The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessments of historical collection trends, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health coverage and other collection indicators. A continuation in trends that results in increasing the proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, results of operations and cash flows.. Our surgical facilities do not satisfy the requirements for any of the safe harbors under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. If a federal or state agency asserts a different position or enacts new laws in this regard, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from governmental programs, which may result in a substantial loss of revenue.. The Anti-Kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referrals for items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid, or any other federally funded healthcare program. Additionally, the Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits any form of remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally funded healthcare program. The Anti-Kickback Statute is very broad in scope and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Moreover, several federal courts have held that the Anti-Kickback Statute can be violated if only one purpose (not necessarily the primary purpose) of a transaction is to induce or reward a referral of business, notwithstanding other legitimate purposes. In addition, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. Moreover, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act (discussed below). Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including up to five years imprisonment and criminal fines of up to $25,000 and civil penalties of up to $50,000 for each violation, plus three times the remuneration involved or the amount claimed and exclusion from participation in all federally funded healthcare programs. Our exclusion from participation in such programs would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, many of the states in which we operate have also adopted laws, similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute, that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically impose criminal and civil penalties, including the loss of a license to do business in the state.. In July 1991, HHS, issued final regulations defining various \"safe harbors\" under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Business arrangements that meet the requirements of the safe harbors are not treated as criminal violations under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Business arrangements that do not meet the safe harbor requirements do not necessarily violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, but may be subject to scrutiny by the federal government to determine compliance. Two of the original safe harbors issued in 1991 apply to business arrangements similar to those used in connection with our surgical facilities: the \"Investment Interest\" safe harbor and the \"Personal Services and Management Contracts\" safe harbor. However, the structure of the partnerships and limited liability companies operating our surgery centers and surgical hospitals, as well as our various business arrangements involving physician group practices, do not satisfy all of the requirements of either safe harbor. We have entered into management agreements to manage the majority of our surgical facilities. Most of these agreements call for our subsidiary to be paid a percentage-based management fee.  Because our management fees are generally based on a percentage of revenue, our management agreements do not typically meet the Personal Services and Management Contracts safe harbor.  We have implemented formal compliance programs designed to safeguard against overbilling and believe that our management agreements comply with the requirements of the Anti-Kickback Statute. However, we cannot assure you that the OIG would find our compliance programs to be adequate or that our management agreements would be found to comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute.. 28. Table of Contents. In November1999, HHS promulgated final regulations creating additional safe harbor provisions, including a safe harbor that applies to physician ownership of or investment interests in surgery centers. The surgery center safe harbor protects four types of investment arrangements: (1) surgeon owned surgery centers; (2) single specialty surgery centers; (3) multi-specialty surgery centers; and (4) hospital/physician surgery centers. Each category has its own requirements with regard to what type of physician may be an investor in the surgery center. In addition to the physician investor, the categories permit an \"unrelated\" investor, who is a person or entity that is not in a position to provide items or services related to the surgery center or its investors. Our business arrangements with our surgical facilities typically consist of one of our subsidiaries being an investor in each partnership or limited liability company that owns the facility, in addition to providing management and other services to the facility. Therefore, our business arrangements with our surgery centers, surgical hospitals and physician groups do not qualify for the expanded safe harbor protection from government review or prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute. However, we believe that we are in compliance with the requirements of the Anti-Kickback Statute.. We employ dedicated marketing personnel whose job functions include the recruitment of physicians to perform surgery at our facilities. These employees are paid a base salary plus a productivity bonus. We believe our employment arrangements with these employees are consistent with a safe harbor provision designed to protect payments made to employees. However, a government agency or private party may assert a contrary position.. We also enter into lease agreements with physicians from time to time for the rental of space for our surgical facilities. We seek to structure these lease agreements so that they are in compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor provision regarding real estate leases. However, a government agency or private party may assert a contrary position.. If any of our business arrangements with physicians or sales and marketing personnel were alleged or deemed to violate the Anti-Kickback Statute or similar laws, or if new federal or state laws were enacted rendering these arrangements illegal, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition to the physician ownership in our surgical facilities, other financial relationships of ours with potential referral sources could potentially be scrutinized under the Anti-Kickback Statute.. Certain of our ASCs have entered into arrangements for professional services, including arrangements for anesthesia services. In a Special Advisory Bulletin issued in April 2003, the OIG focused on \"questionable\" contractual arrangements where a health care provider in one line of business (the \"Owner\") expands into a related health care business by contracting with an existing provider of a related item or service (the \"Manager/Supplier\") to provide the new item or service to the Owner's existing patient population, including federal health care program patients (so called \"suspect Contractual Joint Ventures\"). The Manager/Supplier not only manages the new line of business, but may also supply it with inventory, employees, space, billing, and other services. In other words, the Owner contracts out substantially the entire operation of the related line of business to the Manager/Supplier-otherwise a potential competitor-receiving in return the profits of the business as remuneration for its referrals. Through an Advisory Opinion, the OIG extended this suspect contractual joint venture analysis to arrangements between anesthesiologists and physician owners of ASCs. In Advisory Opinion 12-06, the OIG concluded that certain proposed arrangements between anesthesia groups and physician-owned ASCs could result in prohibited remuneration under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. We believe our arrangements for anesthesia services are distinguishable from those described in Advisory Opinion 12-06 (May 25, 2012) and are in compliance with the requirements of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. However, we cannot assure you that regulatory authorities would agree with that position.. If we fail to comply with physician self-referral laws as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur substantial monetary penalties and a significant loss of revenue.. The federal physician self-referral law, commonly referred to as the Stark Law, prohibits a physician from making a Medicare or Medicaid reimbursed referral for a \"designated health service\" to an entity if the physician or a member of the physician's immediate family has a \"financial relationship\" with the entity unless an exception applies. The list of \"designated health services\" under the Stark Law does not generally include ambulatory surgery services, but it does include inpatient and outpatient hospital service and services such as clinical laboratory services, and certain imaging services that may be provided and separately billed by an ASC or other facility. Under the current Stark Law and related regulations, services provided at an ASC are not covered by the statute, even if those services include imaging, laboratory services or other Stark designated health services, provided that (i) the ASC does not bill for these services separately, or (ii) if the center is permitted to bill separately for these services, they are specifically exempted from Stark Law prohibitions. These are generally radiology and other imaging services integral to performance of surgical procedures that meet certain requirements and certain outpatient prescription drugs. Services provided at our facilities licensed as hospitals are covered by the Stark Law. We attempt to structure our relationship with physicians who refer to our hospitals to meet an exception to the Stark Law where required, but the regulations implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we cannot guarantee that every relationship complies fully with the Stark Law. We also believe that certain services provided by our managed physician network are covered by the Stark Law, but referrals for those services are exempt from the Stark Law under its \"in-office ancillary services exception,\" among others. Our diagnostic laboratory is also subject to the Stark Law, but we believe that we have structured our agreements with physicians so as to not violate the Stark Law and related regulations.. The Stark Law and similar state statutes are subject to different interpretations with respect to many important provisions. Violations of these self-referral laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties, including treble damages for amounts improperly claimed, civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per prohibited service billed, up to $100,000 per prohibited circumvention scheme and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Violations of the Stark Law will also create liability under the federal False Claims Act. Exclusion of our ASCs or hospitals from these programs through judicial or agency interpretation of. 29. Table of Contents. existing laws or additional legislative restrictions on physician ownership or investments in healthcare entities could result in a significant loss of reimbursement revenue. We cannot provide assurances that CMS will not undertake other rulemaking to address additional revisions to or interpretations of the Stark Law regulations. If future rules modify the provisions of the Stark Law regulations that are applicable to our business, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected and could require us to modify our relationships with our physician and healthcare system partners.. Federal law restricts the ability of our surgical hospitals to expand surgical capacity.. The Stark Law includes an exception that permits physicians to refer Medicare and Medicaid patients to hospitals in which they have an ownership interest if certain requirements are met. However, the Affordable Care Act dramatically curtailed this exception and prohibits physician ownership in hospitals that did not have a Medicare provider agreement by December 31, 2010. As a result, the law effectively prevents the formation of new physician-owned hospitals that participate in Medicare and Medicaid after December 31, 2010. Each of our surgical hospitals had a Medicare provider agreement in place prior to December 31, 2010 and is therefore able to continue operating with the ownership structure that was in place prior to December 30, 2010. However, the Affordable Care Act prohibits \"grandfathered\" hospitals from increasing their percentage of physician ownership, and it limits to a certain extent their ability to grow, because it prohibits such hospitals from increasing the aggregate number of inpatient beds, operating rooms and procedure rooms.. Companies within the healthcare industry continue to be the subject of federal and state audits and investigations, and we may be subject to such audits and investigations, including actions for false and other improper claims.. Federal and state government agencies, as well as commercial payors, have increased their auditing and administrative, civil and criminal enforcement efforts as part of numerous ongoing investigations of healthcare organizations. These audits and investigations relate to a wide variety of topics, including the following: cost reporting and billing practices; quality of care; financial reporting; financial relationships with referral sources; and medical necessity of services provided. In addition, the OIG and the U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") have, from time to time, undertaken national enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. In its 2013 Work Plan, the OIG stated its intention to review the safety and quality of care for Medicare beneficiaries having surgeries and procedures in ASCs and hospital outpatient departments.. The federal government may impose criminal, civil and administrative penalties on any person or entity that files a false claim for payment from the Medicare or Medicaid programs and other federal and state healthcare programs. Claims filed with private insurers can also lead to criminal and civil penalties, including, but not limited to, penalties relating to violations of federal mail and wire fraud statutes, as well as penalties under the anti-fraud provisions of the HIPAA. While the criminal statutes are generally reserved for instances of fraudulent intent, the federal government is applying its criminal, civil and administrative penalty statutes in an ever-expanding range of circumstances, including claiming payment for unnecessary services if the claimant merely should have known the services were unnecessary and claiming payment for low-quality services if the claimant should have known that the care was substandard. In addition, a violation of the Stark Law or the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in liability under the federal False Claims Act (\"FCA\").. Over the past several years, the federal government has investigated an increasing number of healthcare providers for potential FCA violations, which, among other things, prohibits a person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. The statute defines \"knowingly\" to include not only actual knowledge of a claim's falsity, but also reckless disregard for or intentional ignorance of the truth or falsity of a claim. Violators of the FCA are subject to severe financial penalties, including treble damages and per claim penalties in excess of $10,000. Because our facilities perform hundreds or thousands of similar procedures each year for which they are paid by Medicare, and since the statute of limitations for such claims extends for six years under normal circumstances (and possibly as long as ten years in the event of failure to discover material facts), a repetitive billing error or cost reporting error could result in significant, material repayments and civil or criminal penalties.. Moreover, another trend impacting healthcare providers is the increased use of the FCA, particularly by individuals who bring actions under that law. Under the \"qui tam,\" or whistleblower, provisions of the FCA, private parties may bring actions on behalf of the federal government. If the government intervenes and prevails in the action, the defendant may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil monetary penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each false claim submitted to the government. These private parties, often referred to as relators, are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government through trial or settlement. These qui tam cases are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information contained in the complaint are the relator, the federal government and the presiding court. It is possible that qui tam lawsuits have been filed against us and that we are unaware of such filings. Both direct enforcement activity by the government and whistleblower lawsuits under the FCA have increased significantly in recent years; thus, the risk that we will have to defend a false claims action, pay significant fines or be excluded from the Medicare and Medicaid programs has increased. For example, on October 23, 2017, the Company received a civil investigative demand (\"CID\") from the federal government under the False Claims Act (\"FCA\") for documents and information dating back to January 1, 2010 relating to the medical necessity of certain drug tests conducted by the Company's physicians and submitted to laboratories owned and operated by the Company. The Company intends to respond to the CID and cooperate with the U.S. Attorney's Office in connection with the FCA investigation.. In addition, the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009 (\"FERA\") further expanded the scope of the FCA to create liability for knowingly and improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay money to the federal government and FERA, along with statutory provisions found in the Acts, created federal False Claims Act liability for the knowing failure to report and return an overpayment within 60 days of the identification of the overpayment or, in certain cases, the date by which a corresponding cost report is due, whichever is later.. 30. Table of Contents. Governmental authorities may challenge or scrutinize our operations or we may be the subject of a whistleblower lawsuit at any time. A determination that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. HIPAA also created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors, knowingly and willfully embezzling or stealing from a healthcare benefit program, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation.. In addition, a person who offers or transfers to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary any remuneration, including waivers of co-payments and deductible amounts (or any part thereof), that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of Medicare or Medicaid payable items or services may be liable for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each wrongful act. Moreover, in certain cases, providers who routinely waive copayments and deductibles for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries can also be held liable under the Anti-Kickback Statute and civil False Claims Act, which can impose additional penalties associated with the wrongful act. Although this prohibition applies only to federal healthcare program beneficiaries, the routine waivers of copayments and deductibles offered to patients covered by commercial payors may implicate applicable state laws related to, among other things, unlawful schemes to defraud, excessive fees for services, tortious interference with patient contracts and statutory or common law fraud. To the extent our patient assistance programs or other discount policies are found to be inconsistent with applicable laws, we may be required to restructure or discontinue such programs, or be subject to other significant penalties.. To enforce compliance with the federal laws, the DOJ has recently increased its scrutiny of interactions between health care companies and health care providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the health care industry. Dealing with investigations can be time and resource consuming and can divert management's attention from the business. In addition, settlements with the DOJ or other law enforcement agencies have forced healthcare providers to agree to additional compliance and reporting requirements as part of a consent decree or corporate integrity agreement. Any such investigation or settlement could increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business.. We are also subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as contractual provisions with commercial payors that prohibit us from submitting inaccurate, incorrect or misleading claims. We cannot be sure that none of our surgical facilities' claims will ever be challenged. If we were found to be in violation of a state's laws or regulations, or of a commercial payor contract, we could be forced to discontinue the violative practice and be subject to recoupment actions, fines and criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. All payors are increasingly conducting post-payment audits. For example, CMS has implemented the RAC program, involving Medicare claims audits nationwide. Under the program, CMS contracts with RACs on a contingency fee basis to conduct post-payment reviews to detect and correct improper payments in the fee-for-service Medicare program. The Affordable Care Act expanded the RAC program's scope to include managed Medicare plans and to include Medicaid claims. In addition, CMS employs MICs to perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. The Affordable Care Act increases federal funding for the MIC program. In addition to RACs and MICs, the state Medicaid agencies and other contractors have increased their review activities. We are regularly subject to these external audits and we also perform both internal and third-party audits and monitoring.. Although all other repayments requested to date as a result of RAC, MIC and ZPIC audits have not been material to our Company, we are unable to quantify the suspended payments and aggregate financial impact of these audits on our facilities given the pending appeals and uncertainty about the extent of future audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic. As such, the resolution of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to comply with Medicare's conditions for coverage and conditions of participation may result in loss of program payment or other governmental sanctions.. To participate in and receive payment from the Medicare program, our facilities must comply with regulations promulgated by CMS. These regulations, known as \"conditions for coverage\" for ASCs and \"conditions of participation\" for hospitals, set forth specific requirements with respect to, among other things, the facility's physical plant, equipment, personnel and standards of medical care. All of our surgery centers and surgical hospitals are certified to participate in the Medicare program. As such, these facilities are subject to on-site, unannounced surveys by state survey agencies working on behalf of CMS. Under the ASC survey process, the surveyors are becoming more familiar with expanded interpretive guidance and the updated ASC conditions for coverage, which may lead to an increased number of deficiency citations requiring remedy with appropriate action plans. Failure to comply with Medicare's conditions for coverage or conditions of participation may result in loss of payment or other governmental sanctions, including termination from participation in the Medicare program. We have established ongoing quality assurance activities to monitor our facilities' compliance with these conditions and respond to surveys, but we cannot be sure that our facilities are or will always remain in full compliance with the requirements. In addition, pending a determination regarding our compliance with these conditions, payment to us may be suspended and we may be required to devote significant time, effort and expense to demonstrate satisfactory compliance.. 31. Table of Contents. Our facilities could face decreased Medicare payments if they fail to report and meet various quality metrics.. The Medicare program presently requires hospitals and ASCs to report performance data on a variety of quality metrics. Facilities that fail to report are penalized with reduced Medicare payments. Additionally, payments to hospitals are adjusted based on the hospital's performance on these quality measures. A substantial portion of hospital payment is at risk depending on its individual performance relative to benchmarks and other hospitals' performance. There is a substantial risk that our Medicare payments could be reduced if our hospitals fail to perform adequately on these measures. Additionally, there is a risk that Medicare payments could be reduced if our facilities-hospitals and ASCs-fail to adequate report data as required by CMS. ASC payments are not yet adjusted based on performance against quality measures, but there is a substantial risk that Congress may soon link ASC Medicare payments to actual performance, in addition to reporting.. If the public performance data becomes a primary factor in determining where patients choose to receive care, and if competing hospitals and ASCs have better results than our facilities on those measures, our patient volumes could decline.. Our use and disclosure of personally identifiable information, including health information, is subject to federal and state privacy and security regulations, and our failure to comply with those regulations or to adequately secure the information we hold could result in significant liability or reputational harm.. HIPAA as well as numerous other federal and state laws and regulations, govern the collection, dissemination, use, privacy, security, confidentiality, integrity and availability of personally identifiable information (\"PII\"), including protected health information (\"PHI\"). HIPAA applies national privacy and security standards for PHI to covered entities such as us. HIPAA requires covered entities to maintain policies and procedures governing PHI that is used or disclosed, and to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect PHI, including PHI maintained, used and disclosed in electronic form. These safeguards include teammate training, identifying \"business associates\" with whom we need to enter into HIPAA-compliant contractual arrangements and various other measures. Ongoing implementation and oversight of these measures involves significant time, effort and expense. While we undertake substantial efforts to secure the PHI we maintain, use and disclose in electronic form, a cyber-attack or other intrusion that bypasses our information security systems causing an information security breach, loss of protected health information or other data subject to privacy laws or a material disruption of our operational systems could result in a material adverse impact on our business, along with potentially substantial fines and penalties. Ongoing implementation and oversight of these security measures involves significant time, effort and expense.. HIPAA also requires our surgical facilities to use standard transaction code sets and identifiers for certain standardized healthcare transactions, including billing and other claim transactions. We have undertaken significant efforts involving substantial time and expense to implement these requirements, and we anticipate that continual time and expense will be required to submit standardized transactions and to ensure that any newly acquired facilities can submit HIPAA-compliant transactions.. HIPAA requires covered entities to report breaches of unsecured protected health information to affected individuals without unreasonable delay and in no case later than 60 days after the discovery of the breach by the covered entity or its agents. Notification must also be made to HHS and, in certain situations involving large breaches, to the media. The HIPAA rules created a presumption that all non-permitted uses or disclosures of unsecured protected health information are breaches unless the covered entity establishes that there is a low probability the information has been compromised. HIPAA imposes mandatory civil and criminal penalties for violations of its requirements ranging up to $50,000 per violation, with a maximum civil penalty of $1.5 million in a calendar year for violations of the same requirement. However, a single breach incident can result in violations of multiple requirements, resulting in possible penalties well in excess of $1.5 million. In addition, the HITECH Act authorized state attorneys general to bring civil actions seeking either an injunction or damages in response to violations of HIPAA privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents.. HIPAA also authorizes state attorneys general to bring civil actions seeking either an injunction or damages in response to violations of HIPAA privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents. While HIPAA does not create a private right of action allowing individuals to sue us in civil court for violations of HIPAA's requirements, its standards have been used as a basis for the duty of care in state civil suits, such as those for negligence or recklessness in the handling of PHI. In addition, HIPAA mandates that the Secretary of HHS conduct periodic compliance audits of HIPAA covered entities such as us.. In addition, many states in which we operate may impose laws that are more protective of the privacy and security of PII than HIPAA. Where these state laws are more protective than HIPAA, we have to comply with their stricter provisions. Only some of these state laws impose fines and penalties upon violators, but some may afford private rights of action to individuals who believe their PII has been misused. California's patient privacy laws, for example, provide for penalties of up to $250,000 and permit injured parties to sue for damages. Both state and federal laws are subject to modification or enhancement of privacy protection at any time. Our facilities will continue to remain subject to any federal or state privacy-related laws that are more restrictive than the privacy regulations issued under HIPAA. These statutes vary and could impose additional requirements on us and more severe penalties for disclosures of confidential health information. New health information standards could have a significant effect on the manner in which we do business, and the cost of complying with new standards could be significant. We may not remain in compliance with the diverse privacy requirements in all of the jurisdictions in which we do business. If we fail to comply with HIPAA or similar state laws, we could incur substantial civil monetary or criminal penalties.. If we are unable to integrate and operate our information systems effectively or implement new systems and processes, our operations could be disrupted.. Our operations depend significantly on effective information systems, which require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Any system failure or integration delay that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could. 32. Table of Contents. adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenue. Moreover, we use the development and implementation of sophisticated and specialized technology to improve our profitability, and our acquired surgical centers and hospitals will require frequent transitions and integration of various information systems. If we are unable to properly integrate other information systems or expand our current information systems it may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain new business, retain existing business and maintain or increase our profit margins and we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions, disruptions in cash flows and increases in administrative expenses.. Information security risks have generally increased in recent years because of threats from malicious persons and groups, new vulnerabilities, the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. A failure in or breach of our operational or information security systems as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the loss, disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs or lead to fines and financial losses. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of the controls and processes designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we will be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. State efforts to regulate the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare facilities could prevent us from acquiring additional surgical facilities, renovating our existing facilities or expanding the breadth of services we offer.. Some states require prior approval for the construction, acquisition or expansion of healthcare facilities or expansion of the services the facilities offer. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services, as well as the financial resources and operational experience of the potential new owners of existing healthcare facilities. In many of the states in which we currently operate, certificates of need must be obtained for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in capacity or services offered and various other matters. The remaining states in which we now or may in the future operate may adopt similar legislation. Our costs of obtaining a certificate of need could be significant, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the certificates of need or other required approvals for additional or expanded surgical facilities or services in the future. In addition, at the time we acquire a surgical facility, we may agree to replace or expand the acquired facility. If we are unable to obtain required approvals, we may not be able to acquire additional surgical facilities, expand healthcare services we provide at these facilities or replace or expand acquired facilities.. If antitrust enforcement authorities conclude that our market share in any particular market is too concentrated, that our or our health system partners' commercial payor contract negotiating practices are illegal, or that we other violate antitrust laws, we could be subject to enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. The federal government and most states have enacted antitrust laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive. These laws prohibit price fixing, concerted refusal to deal, market monopolization, price discrimination, tying arrangements, acquisitions of competitors and other practices that have, or may have, an adverse effect on competition. Violations of federal or state antitrust laws can result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Antitrust enforcement in the healthcare industry is currently a priority of the Federal Trade Commission (the \"FTC\"). We believe we are in compliance with federal and state antitrust laws, but courts or regulatory authorities may reach a determination in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. The healthcare laws and regulation to which we are subject is constantly evolving and may change significantly in the future.. The regulation applicable to our business and to the healthcare industry generally to which we are subject is constantly in a state of flux. While we believe that we have structured our agreements and operations in material compliance with applicable healthcare laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address changes in the current regulatory environment. We believe that our business operations materially comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations. However, some of the healthcare laws and regulations applicable to us are subject to limited or evolving interpretations, and a review of our business or operations by a court, law enforcement or a regulatory authority might result in a determination that could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the healthcare laws and regulations applicable to us may be amended or interpreted in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of NASDAQ rules and, therefore, we qualify for, and currently rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. As of December 31, 2017, Bain Capital controlled a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ. Under these rules, a company of which more than a majority of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements including:. • the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with. 33. Table of Contents. a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. As of December 31, 2017, we have availed ourselves of certain of these exemptions. For example, as a result, we did not have a majority of independent directors for the entire period covered by this report (and may, in the future, have less than a majority of independent directors) and we do not have a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ.. There can be no assurance as to the period of time during which we will remain a \"controlled company\".. Our controlling stockholder has significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control.. As of December 31, 2017, we were controlled by Bain Capital. As of that time, Bain Capital beneficially owned approximately 66% of our outstanding common stock. For as long as Bain Capital continues to control a majority of the voting power of our common stock, it will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors and could exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations, the acquisition or disposition of assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, the issuance of any additional common stock or other equity securities, the repurchase or redemption of common stock and the payment of dividends. Similarly, Bain Capital will have the power to determine matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders without the consent of our other stockholders, will have the power to prevent a change in our control and could take other actions that might be favorable to it. Even if Bain Capital ceases to beneficially own a majority of the voting power of our common stock, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions.. Our stock price could be extremely volatile, and, as a result, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price paid for them.. Since our initial public offering, the price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market has ranged from a low of $7.10 on November 1, 2017 to a high of $24.05 on June 28, 2017. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those described elsewhere in this report and others such as:. • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry;. • announcements by us, our competitors or our vendors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts' projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market;. • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy;. • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry;. • our limited public float;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • changes in accounting principles;. • terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest;. • natural disasters and other calamities; and. • changes in general market and economic conditions.. Securities class action litigation is often initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. For example, on December 4, 2017, we were named as one of the defendants, along with members of our board, and our current and former controlling shareholder and their respective affiliates in a suit filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery by a purported stockholder relating to the Transactions after a period of decline in our trading price. The plaintiff claims that the director defendants breached their fiduciary duties in connection with the Transactions, purporting to assert those claims on the Company's behalf. While we believe that there is no merit to the claims brought in this suit, litigation like this and others like it could result in diversion of resources including management's attention.. 34. Table of Contents. Provisions in the certificate of designation governing our preferred stock and in our charter documents and Delaware law may deter takeover efforts that could be beneficial to stockholder value.. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the certificate of designation governing our preferred stock and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. The provisions in our organizational documents include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue additional preferred stock without stockholder approval that could be used to dilute a potential hostile acquiror. Our certificate of incorporation also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15.0% or more of our outstanding common stock other than affiliates of Bain Capital. Finally, our 10% Series A Convertible Perpetual Participating Preferred Stock accrues conversion value for each quarter it is outstanding and is subject, under certain circumstances, to a redemption premium, which could significantly increase the cost to a potential acquirer of buying all of the outstanding securities of the Company. As a result of these features, our stockholders may lose their ability to sell their stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of the Company may be unsuccessful.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates courts in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws or (iv) any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine (each, a \"Covered Proceeding\"). In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that if any action the subject matter of which is a Covered Proceeding is filed in a court other than the specified Delaware courts without the approval of our board of directors (each, a \"Foreign Action\"), the claiming party will be deemed to have consented to (i) the personal jurisdiction of the specified Delaware courts in connection with any action brought in any such courts to enforce the exclusive forum provision described above and (ii) having service of process made upon such claiming party in any such enforcement action by service upon such claiming party's counsel in the Foreign Action as agent for such claiming party. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions. These provisions may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. As a public company, we are required to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting and to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As disclosed in Item 9A. \"Controls and Procedures\", in connection with management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, management recognized certain control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting pertaining to lack of documentation evidencing certain controls involving revenue, accounts receivable and related allowances and relating to the business combination accounting for the NSH acquisition and the application of pushdown accounting, which aggregates to a material weakness as of December 31, 2017. Certain of the control deficiencies identified as of December 31, 2017 were identified in connection with management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, which management was unable to satisfactorily remediate during fiscal 2017. We have developed and are implementing a plan to remediate certain of these control deficiencies, against which we have made progress, and intend to design a plan to remediate the remainder, but there can be no assurance as to when we will be able to remediate our material weakness, if at all.. If our remediation measures prove to be insufficient to remediate the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, or the accuracy of our financial reporting could be adversely affected resulting in reputational harm, distractions to management and our board of directors, and disruptions to our business.. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline.. 35. Table of Contents"
