[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS, STRATEGY AND INDUSTRY. The loss of, or significant reduction in business from, one or more of our major customers could significantly reduce our revenue, earnings or other operating results.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively small number of customers. We have one customer that provided more than 10% of our revenue in fiscal 2017. Revenue from Medtronic represented approximately 18% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and was generated from multiple products and fields of use. The loss of Medtronic or any of our largest customers, or reductions in business from them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. There can be no assurance that revenue from any customer will continue at their historical levels. If we cannot broaden our customer base, we will continue to depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue.. The long-term success of our business may suffer if we are unable to expand our licensing base.. We intend to continue pursuing a strategy of licensing our coatings technologies to a diverse array base of medical device companies, thereby expanding the commercialization opportunities for our technologies. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customer devices used in connection with procedures in cardiovascular, peripheral vascular and other applications.  As a result, our business is susceptible to adverse trends in procedures.  Further, we may also be subject to adverse trends in specific markets such as the cardiovascular industry, including declines in procedures using our customers' products as well as declines in average selling prices from which we earn royalties. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract new licensees, to enter into agreements for additional applications with existing licensees and to develop technologies for use in applications outside of cardiovascular. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, develop and adapt our technologies for new applications in a timely and cost-effective manner; that new license agreements will be executed on terms favorable to us; that new applications will be accepted by customers in our target markets; or that products incorporating newly licensed technology, including new applications, will gain regulatory approval, be commercialized or gain market acceptance. Delays or failures in these efforts could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Surface modification, device drug delivery and medical device products are competitive markets and carry the risk of technological obsolescence and we face increased competition in our In Vitro Diagnostics segment.. We operate in a competitive and evolving field, and new developments are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the field of surface modification and device drug delivery. Our surface modification and device drug delivery technologies compete with technologies developed by a number of other companies. In addition, many medical device manufacturers have developed, or are engaged in efforts to develop, drug delivery or surface modification technologies for use on their own products. With respect to commercialization of our whole-product solutions, we expect to face competitive pricing pressures from larger OEM suppliers, as well as some of our largest medical device partners that have in-house resources that produce similar products. Some of our existing and potential competitors (especially medical device manufacturers pursuing coating solutions through their own R&D efforts) have greater financial and technical resources as well as production and marketing capabilities than us. Further, even if we are successful with respect to our plan to develop 12-15 medical device products over the next five years, we will be competing with companies that may be better able to leverage existing sales forces. Competitors may succeed in developing competing technologies or obtaining governmental approval for products before us. Products incorporating our competitors' technologies may gain market acceptance more rapidly than products using ours. Developments by competitors may render our existing and potential products uncompetitive or obsolete. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that new products or technologies developed by others, or the emergence of new industry standards, will not render our products or technologies or licensees' products incorporating our technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Any new technologies that make our drug delivery, surface modification or In Vitro Diagnostics technologies less competitive or obsolete would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in implementing our whole-products solutions strategy and related important strategic initiatives. Since fiscal 2013, with our investment in our DCB platform, we have been focused on a key growth strategy for our medical device business by expanding to offer whole-product solutions to our medical device customers.  Our aim is to provide customers earlier access to highly differentiated products that address unmet clinical needs, and partner with them on successful commercialization. If we are unable to identify and enter into arrangements with our medical device customers for the. 15. commercialization of our products, we may seek to market and sell these products through third-party distributors or via direct sales.. Successfully implementing our whole-products solutions strategy and related strategic initiatives will place substantial demands on our resources and management's time, and require, among other things:. •  continued enhancement of our medical device R&D capabilities, including those needed to support the clinical evaluation and regulatory approval for our whole-product solutions;. •  effective coordination and integration of our research facilities and teams, particularly those located in different facilities;. •  successful hiring and training of personnel;. •  effective management of a business geographically located both in the United States and Ireland;. •  commercialization of our products, including through strategic partnerships with our medical device customers, third-party distributors, or via direct sales;. •  sufficient liquidity to support substantial investments in R&D required to make our strategy successful; and. •  increased marketing and sales-support activities.. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our whole-products strategy and related strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which could impact our ability to realize an acceptable return on the investments we are making in connection with this strategy, and may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Failure to identify acquisition opportunities or to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully may limit our growth.. An important part of our growth in the future may involve the acquisition of complementary businesses or technologies. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the technology, value, strengths, weaknesses, overall risks and profitability, if any, of acquisition candidates. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, or we may be unable to execute acquisitions due to competition from buyers with more resources. If we do not make suitable investments and acquisitions, we may find it more difficult to realize our growth objectives.. The process of integrating acquired businesses into our operations, including our Fiscal 2016 Acquisitions, poses numerous risks, including:. •  an inability to integrate acquired operations, personnel, technology, information systems, and internal control systems and products;. •  a lack of understanding of tax, legal and cultural differences;. •  diversion of management's attention, including the need to manage several remote locations with a limited management team;. •  difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entity to us; and. •  the loss of key employees of acquired companies.. In addition, future acquisitions by us may be dilutive to our shareholders' ownership, and cause large one-time expenses or create goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in future significant asset impairment charges. In addition, if we acquire entities that have not yet commercialized products but rather are developing technologies for future commercialization, our earnings per share may fluctuate as we expend significant funds for continued R&D efforts necessary to commercialize such acquired technology. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully complete any acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete.. 16. Our failure to expand our management systems and controls to support anticipated growth or integrate acquisitions could seriously harm our operating results and business.. Our operations are expanding, and we expect this trend to continue as we execute our business strategy.  Executing our business strategy has placed significant demands on management and our administrative, development, operational, information technology, manufacturing, financial and personnel resources.  Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and other key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, development, customer support and financial control systems, and effectively expand, train and manage our employee base. Otherwise, we may not be able to manage our growth successfully.. Goodwill or other assets on our balance sheet may become impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet in connection with our acquisitions. As of September 30, 2017, we had $27.3 million of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet related to our Medical Device and IVD segments, of which $19.3 million related to our Fiscal 2016 Acquisitions in our Medical Device reporting unit. As required by the accounting guidance for non-amortizing intangible assets, we evaluate at least annually the potential impairment of the goodwill and trademark. Testing for impairment of non-amortizing intangible assets involves the determination of the fair value of our reporting units. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. We also evaluate other assets on our balance sheet, including strategic investments and intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Our estimate of the fair value of the assets may be based on fair value appraisals or discounted cash flow models using various inputs. During fiscal 2017 and 2016, we recorded impairment charges on our indefinite-lived intangible assets of $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, related to non-amortizing intangible assets arising from the Creagh Medical acquisition. Future impairment of the goodwill or other assets on our balance sheet could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Research and development costs may adversely affect our operating results.. The success of our business depends on a number of factors, including our continued research and development of new technologies for future commercialization. In recent years, we have expended considerable resources researching and developing our DCB platform.  In fiscal 2018, we expect to continue the clinical evaluation of the SurVeil DCB and will conduct additional development activities for the below-the-knee, AV fistula and other whole-product solutions products, which will result in significant expenses that will adversely affect our operating results, including our profitability, in fiscal 2018 and future periods. Additionally, these activities are subject to risks of failure that are inherent in the development of new medical technologies or products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing new technologies or products, or that any such technology will be commercialized.. We recognize revenue in accordance with various complex accounting standards, and changes in circumstances or interpretations may lead to accounting adjustments.. Our revenue recognition policies involve application of various complex accounting standards, including accounting guidance associated with revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Our compliance with such accounting standards often involves management's judgment regarding whether the criteria set forth in the standards have been met such that we can recognize as revenue the amounts that we receive as payment for our products or services. We base our judgments on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time. In addition, the SEC or the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") may issue new positions or revised guidance on the treatment of complex accounting matters. Changes in circumstances or third-party guidance could cause our judgments to change with respect to our interpretations of these complex standards, and transactions recorded, including revenue recognized, for one or more prior reporting periods, could be adversely affected.. As described below in \"Part II, Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\", the FASB issued new revenue recognition guidance for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014. This accounting standard will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this standard will have on our business model and consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position. We currently believe the impact will be material due to the risks associated with implementing the new standards and ensuring accuracy in our reporting during the transition, the acceleration of minimum license fees and a one-quarter acceleration of royalty revenue pursuant to our hydrophilic license agreements, as well as requiring several additional financial. 17. statement footnote disclosures.  We will also need to update and enhance our internal accounting systems, processes and our internal controls over financial reporting. This has required, and will continue to require, additional investments by us, and may require incremental resources and system configurations that could increase our operating costs in future periods. If we are not able to properly implement the new revenue recognition standards in a timely manner, the revenue that we recognize and the related disclosures that we provide under the new standards may not be complete or accurate, and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations in a timely manner, which could result in, among other things, regulatory discipline and adversely affect our stock price.. With our fiscal 2016 acquisition of Creagh Medical, our business includes foreign operations which exposes us to certain risks related to fluctuations in U.S. dollar and foreign currency exchange rates.. The Company reports its consolidated financial statements in U. S. dollars. In a period where the U.S. dollar is strengthening or weakening as compared with the Euro, our revenue and expenses denominated in the Euro are translated into U.S. dollars at a lower or higher value than they would be in an otherwise constant currency exchange rate environment. In addition, we have Euro-denominated contingent consideration liabilities that are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, which are scheduled to be paid in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 and we have not hedged this foreign currency exposure. During fiscal 2017 and 2016, we recorded foreign currency exchange losses of $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively. The losses were primarily related to these Euro-denominated liabilities. As our foreign operations expand, the effects may become material to our consolidated financial statements.. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. While these particular material weaknesses have been remediated, if we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our operating results could require material modification and our financial reports may not be reliable.. A material weakness was identified in a prior year related to the design and operating effectiveness of our transactional and review controls related to recognition of royalty revenue. We have since remediated the material weakness by taking the steps described below in \"Part II, Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.\". The Company conducted an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of the Company's management, including the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regarding the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2017.. Although we are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes to ensure the adequacy of the internal controls over financial reporting, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Therefore, we cannot be certain that, in the future, additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. If other deficiencies or material weaknesses exist, it could result in misstatements of our results of operations, a restatement of our financial statements for one or more prior periods, a decline in our stock price and investor confidence or other material effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS AND RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES. We rely on third parties to market, distribute and sell most products incorporating our coating technologies.. A principal element of our business strategy is to enter into licensing arrangements with medical device and other companies that manufacture products incorporating our technologies. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we have derived 44%, 47%, and 51%, respectively, of our revenue from royalties and license fees derived from such licensing arrangements. The revenue that we derive from such arrangements is dependent on our licensees' ability to successfully develop, obtain successful regulatory approval for, manufacture (if applicable), market and sell products incorporating our technologies.. Additionally, a licensee could modify their product in such a way that it no longer incorporates our technology. Many of these factors are outside of our control and the failure on the part of our licensees to successfully meet these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Moreover, under our standard license agreements, licensees can terminate the license for any reason upon 90 days' prior written notice. Existing and potential licensees have no obligation to deal exclusively with us and may pursue parallel development. 18. or licensing of competing technologies on their own or with third parties. A decision by a licensee to terminate its relationship with us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure on the part of our licensees to successfully meet these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A portion of our IVD business relies on distribution agreements and relationships with various third parties and any adverse change in those relationships could result in a loss of revenue and harm that business.. We sell many of our IVD products outside of the United States through distributors.  Some of our distributors also sell our competitors' products, and if they favor our competitors' products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. Additionally, we serve as the exclusive distributor in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico for DIARECT AG for its recombinant and native antigens.  The success of these arrangements with these third parties depends, in part, on the continued adherence to the terms of our agreements with them.  Any disruption in these arrangements will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on our customers to accurately report and make payments under our agreements with them.. We rely on our customers to determine whether the products that they sell are royalty-bearing and, if so, report and pay the amount of royalties owed to us under our agreements with them. The majority of our license agreements with our customers give us the right to audit their records to verify the accuracy of their reports to us. However, these audits can be expensive, time-consuming and possibly detrimental to our ongoing business relationships with our customers. While we have undertaken audits of certain of our customers in the past, we generally rely on the accuracy of the reports that they provide to us.. Inaccuracies in these reports has resulted in, and could result in additional overpayments or underpayments of royalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have limited or no redundancy in our manufacturing facilities, and we may lose revenue and be unable to maintain our customer relationships if we lose our production capacity.. We manufacture all of our Medical Device coating reagents (and provide coating manufacturing services for certain customers) and our IVD products at our Eden Prairie, Minnesota facility. We also manufacture balloon catheter products at our facility in Ballinasloe, Ireland and catheter-based medical devices in limited quantities in Plymouth, Minnesota. If our existing production facilities becomes incapable of manufacturing products for any reason, we may be unable to meet production requirements, we may lose revenue and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with our customers, including certain of our licensees. In particular, because most of our customers use our coating reagents to manufacture their own products that generate royalty revenue for us, failure by us to supply these reagents could result in decreased royalty revenue, as well as decreased revenue from our surface modification coating technologies product sales. Without our existing production facilities, we would have no other means of manufacturing products until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at these facilities or develop one or more alternative manufacturing facilities. Although we carry business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits in an amount we consider adequate, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, our business interruption insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for them.. We may face product liability claims related to participation in clinical trials or the use or misuse of our products.. The development and sale of medical devices and component products involves an inherent risk of product liability claims. For medical device products that incorporate our coating technology, most of the license provide us with indemnification against such claims. However, there can be no guarantee that product liability claims will not be filed against us for such products, or for medical device products that we manufacture as part of our whole-product solutions strategy, that parties indemnifying us will have the financial ability to honor their indemnification obligations or that such manufacturers will not seek indemnification or other relief from us for any such claims. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management's time, attention and resources. We have obtained a level of liability insurance coverage that we believe is appropriate to our activities, however, we cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we do not expect to be able to obtain insurance covering our costs and losses as a result of any recall of products or devices incorporating our technologies. 19. because of alleged defects, whether such recall is instituted by us, by a customer, or is required by a regulatory agency. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our revenue will be harmed if we cannot purchase sufficient components that we use in our manufacture of reagents.. We currently purchase some of the components we use to manufacture reagents from sole suppliers. If any of our sole suppliers becomes unwilling to supply components to us, experiences an interruption in its production or is otherwise unable to provide us with sufficient material to manufacture our reagents, we will experience production interruptions. If we lose our sole supplier of any particular reagent component or are otherwise unable to procure all components required for our reagent manufacturing for an extended period of time, we may lose the ability to manufacture the reagents our customers require to commercialize products incorporating our technology. This could result in lost royalties and product sales, which would harm our financial results. Adding suppliers to our approved vendor list may require significant time and resources. We routinely attempt to maintain multiple suppliers of each of our significant materials, so we have alternative suppliers, if necessary. However, if the number of suppliers of a material is reduced, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain our material requirements on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our operations may be harmed.. We are dependent upon key personnel and may not be able to attract qualified personnel in the future.. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain and attract highly qualified management and technical personnel. We face intense competition for such qualified personnel. We do not maintain key person insurance, and we generally do not enter into employment agreements, except with certain executive officers. Although we have non-compete agreements with most employees, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be enforceable. The loss of the services of one or more key employees or the failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. We collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, on our networks.  The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers resulting from employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions.  Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services that we provide to our customers, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and competitive position.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. We may not be able to obtain, maintain or protect proprietary rights necessary for the commercialization of our technologies.. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patents, maintain trade secret protection, operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties and protect our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties.  We have been granted U.S. and foreign patents and have U.S. and foreign patent applications pending related to our proprietary technologies.  There can be no assurance that any pending patent application will be approved, that we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable, that any patents issued will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged or invalidated by third parties, that the patents of others will not prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technologies, or that others will not independently develop similar technologies or design around our patents.  Furthermore, because we generate a significant amount of our revenue through licensing arrangements, the loss or expiration of patent protection for our licensed technologies will result in a reduction of the revenue derived from these arrangements which may have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations, financial position and prospects.. 20. We may become involved in expensive and unpredictable patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings which could result in liability for damages, or impair our development and commercialization efforts.. Our commercial success also will depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing patent or other intellectual property rights of third parties. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries, and intellectual property litigation may be used against us as a means of gaining a competitive advantage. Intellectual property litigation is complex, time consuming and expensive, and the outcome of such litigation is difficult to predict. If we were found to be infringing any third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could be required to pay significant damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses from others, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or cease commercialization of our products and processes. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Patent litigation or certain other administrative proceedings may also be necessary to enforce our patents or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. These activities could result in substantial cost to us, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. An adverse outcome of any such litigation or interference proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using our technology. Any action to defend or prosecute intellectual property would be costly and result in significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel, regardless of outcome, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technology and proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us.. We rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not subject to patent protection. We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, potential licensees, or other parties as well as through other security measures. There can be no assurance that these agreements or any security measure will provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If we determine that our proprietary rights have been misappropriated, we may seek to enforce our rights which would draw upon our financial resources and divert the time and efforts of our management, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to convert our customers to our advanced generation of hydrophilic coating technology, our royalty revenue may decrease.. In our Medical Device business unit, we have licensed our PhotoLink hydrophilic technology to a number of our customers for use in a variety of medical device surface applications. We have several U.S. and international issued patents and pending international patent applications protecting various aspects of these technologies, including compositions, methods of manufacture and methods of coating devices. The expiration dates for these patents and the anticipated expiration dates of the patent applications range from fiscal 2020 to 2035. These patents and patent applications represent distinct families, with each family generally covering a successive generation of the technology, including improvements that enhance coating performance, manufacturability, or other important features desired by our customers. Among these, our third-generation PhotoLink hydrophilic technology is protected by a family of patents that expired in November 2015 (in the U.S.) and October 2016 (in certain other countries). The royalty revenue associated with our third-generation technology was approximately 12% of our fiscal 2017 revenue.. Approximately 21% of our total revenue in fiscal 2017 was generated from our fourth-generation PhotoLink technology, which are protected by a family of patents that will begin to expire in fiscal 2020. Of the license agreements using our early generation technologies, most will continue to generate royalty revenue at a reduced royalty rate beyond patent expiration.. In recent years, we have successfully converted a number of our customers' products utilizing these early generation technologies to one of our advanced generation technologies. While we are actively seeking to convert our customers to one of our advanced generations of our hydrophilic coating technology, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so, or that those customers that have converted, or will convert, will sell products utilizing our technology which will generate earned royalty revenue for us.. 21. If we or any of our licensees breach any of the agreements under which we have in-licensed intellectual property from others, we could be deprived of important intellectual property rights and future revenue.. We are a party to various agreements through which we have in-licensed or otherwise acquired rights to certain technologies that are important to our business. In exchange for the rights granted to us under these agreements, we have agreed to meet certain research, development, commercialization, sublicensing, royalty, indemnification, insurance or other obligations. If we or one of our licensees fails to comply with these obligations set forth in the relevant agreement through which we have acquired rights, we may be unable to effectively use, license, or otherwise exploit the relevant intellectual property rights and may be deprived of current or future revenue that is associated with such intellectual property.. RISKS RELATING TO CLINICAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS. The development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals, all of which may be very expensive and time-consuming and may not result in commercially viable products.. The development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. During fiscal 2017, we continued the development of the SurVeil DCB, including investigating additional clinical applications and uses of the platform. In October 2017, commenced enrollment of patients in TRANSCEND, the pivotal clinical trial for the SurVeil DCB.. There can be no assurance that any products now in development, or that we may seek to develop in the future, will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for new products or enhanced products, our ability to successfully compete in the markets in which we participate may be materially adversely impacted. A delay in the development or approval of new products and technologies may also adversely impact the timing of when these products contribute to our future revenue and earnings growth.. Healthcare policy changes may have a material adverse effect on us.. Healthcare costs have risen significantly during the past decade. There have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to keep these costs down. Certain proposals, if implemented, would impose limitations on the prices our customers will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for their products from governmental agencies or third-party payers, or otherwise negatively impact pricing and reimbursement. Because a significant portion of our revenue is currently derived from royalties on products which constitute a percentage of our customer's product's selling price, these limitations could have an adverse effect on our revenue.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the \"ACA\") imposes significant new taxes on medical device makers who make up a significant portion of our customers. Although significant components of these taxes have been suspended for calendar 2016 and 2017, their status is unclear for 2018 and subsequent years, as is the future of the ACA itself. The legislation has resulted in a significant total cost increase to the medical device and diagnostic industries, which could have a material, negative impact on both the financial condition of our customers as well as on our customers' ability to attract financing, their willingness to commit capital to development projects or their ability to commercialize their products utilizing our technology, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There continues to be substantial risk to our customers, and therefore us, from the uncertainty which continues to surround the future of health care delivery and reimbursement both in the U.S. and abroad. In particular, we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States or abroad may have on our business.. Whole-product solutions medical devices and other products incorporating our technologies are subject to increasing scrutiny and regulations, including extensive approval/ clearance processes and manufacturing requirements. Any adverse regulatory and/ or enforcement action (for us or our licensees) may materially affect our financial condition and business operations.. Our products and our business activities are subject to a complex regime of regulations. Additionally, certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of industry interactions with health care providers. Any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business. In addition, we will continue to devote substantial additional time and financial resources to further develop and implement policies, systems, and. 22. processes to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements, which may also impact our business. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation may increase compliance and legal costs, exposure to litigation, and other adverse effects to our operations.. To varying degrees, the FDA and comparable agencies outside the US require us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. Our compliance with these laws and regulations takes significant time/ resources, involves stringent testing/ surveillance, involves attention to any needed product improvements (such as modifications, repairs, or replacements), and may include significant limitations of the uses of our products.. Changes in existing regulations or adoption of new governmental regulations or policies could prevent or delay regulatory approval of products incorporating our technologies or subject us to additional regulation. Failure or delay by us or our licensees in obtaining FDA and other necessary regulatory approval or clearance, or the loss of previously obtained approvals, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our facilities and procedures are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to determine compliance with the FDA's requirements. The results of these inspections can include inspectional observations on FDA's Form-483, warning letters, or other forms of enforcement. The FDA has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of non-U.S governments for exports, and/or require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA may also assess civil or criminal penalties against us, our officers or employees and impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, or enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law. The FDA may also recommend prosecution to the U. S. Department of Justice. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products and limit our ability to obtain future pre-market clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to our business practices and operations.. We may face liability if we mishandle or improperly dispose of the hazardous materials used in some of our research, development and manufacturing processes.. Our research, development and manufacturing activities sometimes involve the controlled use of various hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. While we currently maintain insurance in amounts that we believe are appropriate, we could be held liable for any damages that might result from any such event. Any such liability could exceed our insurance and available resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, certain of our activities are regulated by federal and state agencies in addition to the FDA. For example, activities in connection with disposal of certain chemical waste are subject to regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We could be held liable in the event of improper disposal of such materials, even if these acts were done by third parties. Some of our reagent chemicals must be registered with the agency, with basic information filed related to toxicity during the manufacturing process as well as the toxicity of the final product. Failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR SECURITIES. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, in large part attributable to developments and circumstances related to factors identified in \"Forward-Looking Statements\" and \"Risk Factors.\" Our common stock price may rise or fall sharply at any time because of this volatility, as a result of sales executed by significant holders of our stock, and also because of short positions taken by investors from time to time in our stock. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, the sale price for our common stock ranged from $21.90 to $31.80 per share. The market prices for securities of medical technology, drug delivery and biotechnology companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies.. 23"
