[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. In evaluating our company, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we do not generate a large number of new business awards, or if new business awards are delayed, terminated, reduced in scope or fail to go to contract, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. Our business is dependent on our ability to generate new business awards from new and existing customers and maintain existing customer contracts. Our inability to generate new business awards on a timely basis and subsequently enter into contracts for such awards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. There is risk of cancelability in both the clinical and commercial businesses. The time between when a clinical study is awarded and when it goes to contract is typically several months, and prior to a new business award going to contract, our customer can cancel the award without notice. Once an award goes to contract, the majority of our customers can terminate the contract with little notice, in many cases 30 days or less. Our contracts may be delayed or terminated by our customers or reduced in scope for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to:. • decisions to forego or terminate a particular trial;. • budgetary limits or changing priorities;. • actions by regulatory authorities;. • production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested;. • failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria;. • unexpected or undesired clinical results for products;. • insufficient patient enrollment in a trial;. • insufficient principal investigator recruitment;. • production problems resulting in shortages of the product being tested;. • the customers' decision to terminate or scale back the development or commercialization of a product or to end a particular project;. • shift of business to a competitor or internal resources; or. • product withdrawal following market launch.. Our commercial services contracts typically have a significantly shorter wind down period than clinical contracts, particularly within our selling solutions offerings. Furthermore, many of our communications services and consulting services projects are tied to a customer's annual marketing budget or ad hoc service requests, which can lead to seasonal variability in revenue and less predictability in future revenues. In addition, many of our biopharmaceutical selling solutions service contracts provide our customers with the opportunity to internalize the resources provided under the contract and terminate all or a portion of the services we provide under the contract. Our customers may also decide to shift their business to a competitor. Each of these factors results in less visibility to future revenues and higher volatility in future revenues.. Contract terminations, delays and modifications are a regular part of our business across each of our segments. For example, our full-service offering within our Clinical Solutions business has been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by project delays, which impact near term revenue disproportionately. In. 26. Table of Contents. addition, project delays, downsizings and cancellations, particularly within our selling solutions and communications offerings, which are part of our Commercial Solutions business, have impacted our results in the past and might impact them in the future. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large project or of multiple projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we might not realize the full benefits of our backlog if our customers cancel, delay or reduce their commitments to us.. In the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the project, which include both fees incurred and actual and non-cancellable expenditures and may include a fee to cover a percentage of the remaining professional fees on the project. These fees might not be sufficient for us to maintain our margins, and termination may result in lower resource utilization rates and therefore lower operating margins. In addition, cancellation of a contract or project for the reasons noted above may result in the unwillingness or inability of our customer to satisfy its existing obligations to us such as payments of accounts receivable, which may in turn result in a material impact to our results of operations and cash flow. Historically, cancellations and delays have negatively impacted our operating results, and they might again. In addition, we might not realize the full benefits of our backlog if our customers cancel, delay or reduce their commitments to us, which may occur if, among other things, a customer decides to shift its business to a competitor or revoke our status as a preferred provider. Thus, the loss or delay of a large business award or the loss or delay of multiple awards could adversely affect our service revenues and profitability. Additionally, a change in the timing of a new business award could affect the period over which we recognize revenue and reduce our revenue in any one quarter.. Our Clinical Solutions backlog might not be indicative of our future revenues, and we might not realize all of the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog.. Our Clinical Solutions backlog consists of anticipated net service revenue awarded from contract and pre-contract commitments that are supported by written communications. Once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project, provided the award has gone to contract. Projects may be canceled or delayed by the customer or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be adversely affected. In addition, if a customer terminates a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the termination date and subsequent customer-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. Typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the future revenue reflected in our Clinical Solutions backlog in the event of a contract termination or subsequent changes in scope that reduce the value of the contract. The duration of the projects included in our Clinical Solutions backlog, and the related revenue recognition, typically range from a few months to several years. Our Clinical Solutions backlog might not be indicative of our future revenues, and we might not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in that backlog. A number of factors may affect backlog, including:. • the size, complexity and duration of projects or strategic relationships;. • the cancellation or delay of projects;. • the failure of one or more business awards to go to contract; and. • changes in the scope of work during the course of projects.. The rate at which our Clinical Solutions backlog converts to revenue may vary over time. The revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, more regional projects for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased time frame for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals.. Our Clinical Solutions backlog at December 31, 2017 was $3.80 billion. Although an increase in Clinical Solutions backlog will generally result in an increase in revenues over time, an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in revenues during any particular period, or at all. The extent to which contracts in Clinical Solutions backlog will result in revenue depends on many factors, including, but not limited to, delivery against project schedules, scope changes, contract terminations and the nature, duration and complexity of the contracts, and can vary significantly over time. Subsequent to the August 2017 Merger with inVentiv, our Clinical Solutions segment represents only a. 27. Table of Contents. portion of our overall business resulting in our reported backlog becoming less meaningful as an indicator of our future total revenues.. We do not currently report new business awards or backlog data for our Commercial Solutions segment.. Failure to adopt the new accounting standard of recognizing revenue from contracts with customers in a timely manner could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows to be materially adversely affected.. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company is required to adopt the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, the new comprehensive accounting standard for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. If the Company is unable to accurately and efficiently adopt the new standard effective on January 1, 2018, is unable to adopt the new standard for the combined company after the Merger, is unable to get its information systems and processes in place to facilitate compliance, or is unable to effectively communicate the changes in revenue recognition policy to investors, the Company may lose investor confidence, its ability to raise capital, and/or its business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. See \"Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Changes in Significant Accounting Policies\" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding ASU 2014-09.. Our operating results have historically fluctuated between fiscal quarters and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect the market price of our stock.. Our operating results have fluctuated in previous quarters and years and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are influenced by a variety of factors, such as:. • timing of contract amendments for changes in scope that could affect the value of a contract and potentially impact the amount of net new business awards and net service revenues from quarter to quarter;. • commencement, completion, execution, postponement or termination of large contracts;. • contract terms for the recognition of revenue milestones;. • progress of ongoing contracts and retention of customers;. • timing of and charges associated with completion of acquisitions, integration of acquired businesses, and other events;. • changes in the mix of services delivered, both in terms of geography and type of services;. • potential customer disputes, penalties or other issues that may impact the revenue we are able to recognize or the collectability of our related accounts receivable; and. • exchange rate fluctuations.. Our operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future results and fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our stock.. If we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documentation of change orders, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. We price our contracts based on assumptions regarding the scope of work required and cost to complete the work. We bear the financial risk if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and financial performance. In addition, contracts with our customers are subject to change orders, which occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated in our contract with the customers. This can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key study assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. We may be unable to successfully negotiate changes in scope or change orders on a timely basis or at all, which could require us to incur cost outlays ahead of the receipt of any additional revenue. In addition, under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (\"GAAP\") we cannot recognize additional. 28. Table of Contents. revenue anticipated from change orders until appropriate documentation is received by us from the customer authorizing the change. However, if we incur additional expense in anticipation of receipt of that documentation, we must recognize the expense as incurred. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide services to our customers and to store employee data, and failures of these systems, including cyber-attacks, may materially limit our operations or have an adverse effect on our reputation.. Our information systems are comprised of systems we have purchased or developed, legacy information systems from organizations we have acquired, including inVentiv and, increasingly, web-enabled and other integrated information systems. In using these information systems, we frequently rely on third-party vendors to provide hosting services, where our infrastructure is dependent upon the reliability of their underlying platforms, facilities and communications systems. We also utilize integrated information systems that we provide customers access to or install for our customers in conjunction with our delivery of services.. As the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in maintaining the stability of our legacy systems due to prior customization, attrition of employees or vendors involved in their development, and obsolescence of the underlying technology as well as risks from the increasing number and scope of external data breaches on multi-national companies. In addition, during 2017 we began a major integration of the legacy inVentiv financial and operational systems to our financial and operating systems. Please refer to the risk factor \"Upgrading the information systems that support our operating processes and evolving the technology platform for our services pose risks to our business\" below for additional risk related to integrating information technology systems and processes. Because certain customers, clinical trials, and other long-term projects depend upon these legacy systems, we also face an increased level of embedded risk in maintaining the legacy systems and limited options to mitigate such risk. We are also exposed to risks associated with the availability of all our information systems, including:. • disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms, including those maintained by our third-party vendors;. • security breaches of, cyber-attacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our internal systems, including our employee data and communications, critical application systems or their associated hardware; and. • excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment.. The materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. While we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities or those of our third-party vendors could result in interruptions in the flow of data to us and from us to our customers. Corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a project at no cost to the customer, but at significant cost to us, the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. Additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, and cyber-attacks such as those recently faced by other multi-national companies could adversely affect our businesses. As our business continues to expand globally, these types of risks may be further increased by instability in the geopolitical climate of certain regions, underdeveloped and less stable utilities and communications infrastructure, and other local and regional factors. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance that we believe is customary for our industry, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur.. 29. Table of Contents. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through systems failure or employee actions, cyber-attacks, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Similarly, we have been and expect that we will continue to be subject to attempts to gain unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we internally or externally develop for our customers, including a cyber-attack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, process breakdowns, denial-of-service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. In addition, we may be susceptible to physical or computer-based attacks by terrorists or hackers due to our role in the biopharmaceutical service industry. These concerns about security are increased when information is transmitted over the Internet. Threats include cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, and any of these could result in a degradation or disruption of our services or damage to our properties, equipment and data. They could also compromise data security, including the security of personal data. If such attacks are not detected immediately, their effect could be compounded. To date these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results. However, successful attacks in the future could result in negative publicity, significant remediation and recovery costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks and other related breaches.. Additionally, we rely on service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global data network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require for similar reasons, the failure could interrupt our services. Because of the centrality of our processing systems to our business, any interruption or degradation could adversely affect the perception of our brands' reliability and harm our business. If a service provider experiences the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data they are processing on our behalf, whether through systems failure or employee actions, cyber-attacks, fraud, or misappropriation, it could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Similarly, such disclosure could result in negative publicity, significant remediation and recovery costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, contractual indemnity, the service provider's liability insurance and our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks, and other related breaches.. We are subject to regulation in the areas of consumer privacy and data use and security.. Privacy, data use and security continue to receive heightened legislative and regulatory focus in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. For example, in many jurisdictions victims must be notified in the event of a data breach and those jurisdictions that have these laws are continuing to increase the circumstances and the breadth of these notices. Our failure or the failure of our customers to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, litigation, damages, cost for mitigation activities and damage to our global reputation and our brands.. Our customer or therapeutic area concentration may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If any large customer decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our top ten customers based on revenue accounted for approximately 37% of our consolidated net service revenue and our top ten Clinical Solutions customers based on backlog accounted for approximately 39% of our total backlog. No single customer accounted for greater than 10% of our total consolidated net service revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 or 2015. It is possible that an even greater portion of our revenues will be attributable to a smaller number of customers in the future, including as a result of our entering into strategic provider relationships with customers. Also, consolidation in our potential customer base results in increased competition for important market segments and fewer available customer accounts.. Additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different sponsors in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action may adversely affect our business if some or all of the trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class. Similarly, marketing and selling products for different sponsors with similar drug action subjects us to risk if. 30. Table of Contents. new scientific information or regulatory judgment prejudices the products as a class, leading to compelled or voluntary prescription limitations or withdrawal of some or all of the products from the market.. Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. We have operations in many foreign countries, including, but not limited to, countries in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East and Africa. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 47% of our workforce was located outside of the United States, and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 39% of our net service revenue was billed to locations outside the United States. Our international operations are subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in operating in these regions, including:. • conducting a single project across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with or unanticipated changes to local regulations or restrictions such as restrictions on import or export of clinical trial material or availability of clinical trial data may affect the progress of the trial in the other countries, resulting in delays or potential termination of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue;. • the United States or other countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies, data protection regulations or economic sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from the countries in which we operate;. • foreign countries are expanding or may expand their banking regulations that govern international currency transactions, particularly cross-border transfers, which may inhibit our ability to transfer funds into or within a jurisdiction, impeding our ability to pay our principal investigators, vendors and employees, thereby impacting our ability to conduct trials in such jurisdictions;. • foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, or transparency reporting requirements (similar to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act in the United States), which could delay, inhibit or prohibit our ability to conduct projects in such jurisdictions;. • the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries might not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner in which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect;. • changes in political and economic conditions, including the June 2016 vote by the U.K. to exit from the European Union and the results of the U.S. presidential election, may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in inflation and foreign currency exchange rates;. • potential violations of applicable anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") and the UK Bribery Act of 2010, may cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation;. • customers in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in those jurisdictions;. • natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of trial materials or results;. • political unrest, such as the current situations in the Middle East, could delay or disrupt the ability to conduct clinical trials or other business; and. • foreign governments may enact currency exchange controls that may limit the ability to fund our operations or significantly increase the cost of maintaining operations.. These risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our customers. Furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable U.S. laws. Any such risks could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. 31. Table of Contents. Governmental authorities may question our intercompany transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business.. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to foreign tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between legal entities in various international jurisdictions. Tax authorities in the United States and in international markets have the right to examine our corporate structure and how we account for intercompany fund transfers. If such authorities challenge our corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers and the resulting assessments are upheld, our operations may be negatively impacted and our effective tax rate may increase. Tax rates vary from country to country and if a tax authority determines that our profits in one jurisdiction should be increased, we might not be able to realize the full tax benefits in the event we cannot utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, or we do not realize a compensating offsetting adjustment in another taxing jurisdiction. The effects of either would increase our effective tax rate. Additionally, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has issued certain guidelines regarding base erosion and profit shifting. As these guidelines continue to be formally adopted by separate taxing jurisdictions, we may need to change our approach to intercompany transfer pricing in order to maintain compliance under the new rules. Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease depending on the current location of global operations at the time of the change. Finally, we might not always be in compliance with all applicable customs, exchange control, Value Added Tax and transfer pricing laws despite our efforts to be aware of and to comply with such laws. If these laws change we may need to adjust our operating procedures and our business could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to successfully increase our market share, our ability to grow our business and execute our growth strategies could be materially adversely affected.. A key element of our growth strategy is increasing our market share within the biopharmaceutical services market, the clinical development market and in the geographic markets in which we operate. In addition, we continue to invest in expanding new services such as our late phase offerings, along with solutions for our medical device customers. As we grow our market share within the biopharmaceutical services and clinical development markets and make investments in growing our newer service offerings, we might not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform our services satisfactorily or may face increased competition. If we are unable to succeed in increasing our market share or realize the benefits of our investments in our new service offerings, we may be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our ability to grow our business or maintain our operating margins could be adversely affected.. Upgrading the information systems that support our operating processes and evolving the technology platform for our services pose risks to our business.. Continued efficient operation of our business requires that we implement standardized global business processes and evolve our information systems to enable this implementation, especially in the course of integrating inVentiv into our company. We have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. Our inability to effectively manage the implementation of new information systems or upgrades and adapt to new processes designed into these new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations.. We have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development, integration, and hosting services that develop or license to us the information technology (\"IT\") platforms and capacity for programs to optimize our business processes. If such vendors or their products fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing, and updating our IT platforms, our customer delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. For example, we rely on an external vendor to provide the clinical trial management software used in managing the completion of our customer clinical trials. If that externally provided system is not properly maintained we might not be able to meet the obligations of our contracts or may need to incur significant costs to replace the system or capability. Additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us.. 32. Table of Contents. Meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which might not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, depending upon our third-party vendors to develop and enhance existing applications to adequately support our business, creating IT-enabled services that our customers will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. Also, increased IT-related expenditures and our potential inability to anticipate increases in service costs may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be harmed.. We contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market and to support the commercial activity of products already in the marketplace. Our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, EDC, patient recruitment, product launch consulting, selling solutions, advertising, publications and medical communications, and other related services. Such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations. For example, we must adhere to applicable regulatory requirements such as those required by the Food and Drug Administration, European Medicines Agency, and current Good Clinical Practice regulations, which govern, among other things, the design, conduct, performance, monitoring, auditing, recording, analysis, and reporting of clinical trials and the promotion, sales and marketing of biopharmaceutical products. If we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us or our customers. Such actions may include sanctions such as injunctions or failure of such regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, imposition of clinical holds or delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, rejection of data collected in our studies, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. Additionally, there is a risk that actions by regulatory authorities, if they result in significant inspectional observations or other measures, could harm our reputation and cause customers not to award us future contracts or to cancel existing contracts. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. Such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur:. Improper performance of our services.  The performance of our clinical development and other biopharmaceutical services is complex and time-consuming. For example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of the trial or cause the results of the trial to be reported improperly. If the trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services and our reputation could be harmed. For example:. • non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities;. • compromise of data from a particular trial, such as failure to verify that adequate informed consent was obtained from subjects or improper monitoring of data, could require us to repeat the trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial cost to us; and. • breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract.. Large clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars and improper performance of our services could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation, and result in the termination of current contracts or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected customer or other customers.. Interactive Voice/Web Response Technology malfunction.  We develop, maintain, and use third-party computer-based interactive voice/web response systems to automatically manage the randomization of patients in a given clinical trial to different treatment arms and regulate the supply of investigational drugs, all by means of interactive voice/web response systems. An error in the design, programming, or validation of these systems could lead to inappropriate assignment or dosing of patients which could give rise to patient safety issues, invalidation of the trial, or liability claims against us. Furthermore, negative publicity associated with such a malfunction could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. Additionally, errors in. 33. Table of Contents. randomization may require us to repeat the trial at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial cost to us.. Investigation of customers.  From time to time, one or more of our customers are audited or investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. In these situations, we have often provided services to our customers with respect to the clinical trials, programs, or activities being audited or investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. There is a risk that either our customers or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. If our customers or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines, or penalties. In addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our customers' clinical trials, programs, or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. Insufficient customer funding to complete a clinical trial.  As noted above, clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. There is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a customer, and then the customer becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the trial. In such a situation, notwithstanding the customer's ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the trial at our own expense.. In addition to the above U.S. laws and regulations, we must comply with the laws of all countries where we do business, including laws governing clinical trials in the jurisdiction where the trials are performed. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could subject us to regulatory risk, liability, and potential costs associated with redoing the trials, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results.. Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend.. We may become subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to governmental or regulatory enforcement activity. While we do not believe that the resolution of any currently pending lawsuits against us will, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, we might be wrong, and future litigation might result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which might seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Insurance might not cover such claims, provide sufficient payments to cover all of the costs to resolve one or more such claims, or continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with our customers, our customers do not abide by the indemnification agreement as required or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or reputation.. The operation of our early stage (Phase I and IIA) clinical facilities and the services we provide there as well as our clinical trial management, including direct interaction with clinical trial patients or volunteers, could create potential liability that may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation.. We operate facilities where early stage clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of individuals to evaluate a product's safety, determine a safe dosage range and identify side effects. Additionally, our business involves clinical trial management, which is one of our clinical development service offerings, and includes the testing of new drugs on human volunteers. Some of these trials involve the administration of investigational drugs to known substance abusers or volunteers and patients that are already seriously ill and are at risk for further illness or death. Failure to operate any of our early stage facilities in accordance with applicable regulations could result in that facility being shut down, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation.. Additionally, we face risks resulting from the administration of drugs to volunteers, including adverse events, and the professional malpractice of medical care providers, including improper administration of a drug or. 34. Table of Contents. device. We also directly employ doctors, nurses, and other trained employees who assist in implementing the testing involved in our clinical trials, such as drawing blood from healthy volunteers. Although we attempt to negotiate indemnification arrangements with our customers or vendors, we might not be able to collect under these arrangements and our exposure could exceed any contractual limits on indemnification. Any professional malpractice or negligence by such doctors, nurses, principal investigators, or other employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a volunteer in clinical trials. This liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our business and financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation.. If our insurance does not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. We maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations that we believe to be customary for our industry. The coverage provided by such insurance might not be adequate for all claims we make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. If our insurance is not adequate or available to pay all claims or exposures associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. If we are unable to attract suitable principal investigators and recruit and enroll patients for clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer.. The recruitment of principal investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our business. Principal investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics, or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. Patients generally include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. Several of our competitors have purchased site networks or site management organizations as a strategy for priority access to a specific site, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing principal investigators or recruit and enroll patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. The expanding global nature of clinical trials increases the risk associated with attracting suitable principal investigators and patients, especially if these trials are conducted in regions where our resources or experience may be more limited. For example, if we are unable to engage principal investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to more principal investigators and patients than planned or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us or cancellation of the trial by our customer. If realized, these risks may also inhibit our ability to attract new business, particularly in certain regions.. Our business could result in liability to us if a drug causes harm to a patient. While we are generally indemnified and insured against such risks, we may still suffer financial losses.. When we market drugs under contract for a biopharmaceutical company, we could suffer liability for harm allegedly caused by those drugs, either as a result of a lawsuit against the biopharmaceutical company to which we are joined, a lawsuit naming us or any of our subsidiaries, or an action launched by a regulatory body. While we are generally indemnified by the biopharmaceutical company for the action of the drugs we market on its behalf and carry insurance to cover harm caused by our negligence in performing services, it is possible that we could nonetheless incur financial losses, regulatory penalties, or both. In particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with the biopharmaceutical company, the biopharmaceutical company does not abide by the indemnification agreement as required, or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. Such a result could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation. Furthermore, negative publicity associated with harm caused by drugs we helped to market could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. 35. Table of Contents. Investments in our customers' businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance.. We may enter into arrangements with our customers or other drug companies in which we take on some of the risk of the potential success or failure of their businesses or drugs, including making strategic investments in our customers or other drug companies, providing financing to customers or other drug companies, or acquiring an interest in the revenues from customers' drugs or in entities developing a limited number of drugs. Before entering into any such arrangements, we carefully analyze and select the customers and drugs with which we are willing to structure our risk-based deals. Our financial results could be adversely affected if these investments or the underlying drugs result in losses, do not achieve the level of success that we anticipate, and/or our return or payment from the drug investment or financing is less than our direct and indirect costs with respect to these arrangements. Additionally, there is a risk that we are not awarded projects by other customers who believe we are in competition with them because of these investments, which would negatively impact future awards.. If we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit experienced personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or reputation could be materially adversely affected.. Our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions, and expertise of our senior management team and other key personnel including qualified management, professional, scientific, and technical operating staff, and business development personnel, particularly as we integrate inVentiv into our company. There is significant competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with higher educational degrees, in the biopharmaceutical and related services industries. In addition, the close proximity of some of our facilities to offices of our major competitors could adversely impact our ability to successfully recruit and retain key personnel. The departure of any key executive, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, might impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and might negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or reputation.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Approximately 17% of our fiscal year 2017 net service revenues were contracted in currencies other than U.S. dollars and 32% of our direct and operating costs are incurred in countries with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our primary exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates is related to the following risks:. Foreign Currency Risk from Differences in Customer Contract Currency and Operating Costs Currency.  The majority of our global contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars or Euros while our operating costs in foreign countries are denominated in various local currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the currencies we use to contract with our customers and the currencies in which we incur cost to fulfill those contracts can have a significant impact on our results of operations.. Foreign Currency Translation Risk.  The revenue and expenses of our international operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations between the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies will affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated revenue, costs, and results of operations.. Foreign Currency Transaction Risk.  We earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in many cases, over several years, resulting in timing differences between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. Accordingly, profitability of the transactions denominated in foreign currencies is subject to effects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction.. We may seek to limit our exposure to these risks through inclusion of foreign currency exchange rate provisions in our service contracts, and/or by hedging certain exposures with foreign exchange derivative instruments. These measures, however, might not offset or mitigate any, or all of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates.. 36. Table of Contents. Unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Unfavorable economic conditions and other adverse macroeconomic factors on global and domestic markets might result, among other matters, in tightening in the credit and capital markets, low liquidity, and volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. Such conditions could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For example, our customers might not be able to raise money to conduct existing clinical trials, or to fund new drug development and related future clinical trials. Resource-sharing customers may also scale back commercial support for their products. In addition, economic or market disruptions could negatively impact our vendors, contractors, or principal investigators which might have a negative effect on our business.. Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. Our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to:. • the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations the benefit for losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized;. • actual and projected full year pre-tax income;. • the repatriation of foreign earnings to the United States;. • uncertain tax positions;. • changes in tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions;. • audits by taxing authorities;. • the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determine that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized;. • the release of a previously established valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determine that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will be realized;. • changes in the relative mix and size of clinical studies in various tax jurisdictions; and. • the timing and amount of the vesting and exercising of share-based compensation.. These changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could adversely affect our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to: (i) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%; (ii) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (iii) generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (iv) introducing a new provision designed to tax global intangible low-taxed income (\"GILTI\"); (v) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax (\"AMT\") and changing how existing AMT credits can be realized; (vi) creating the base erosion anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\"), a new minimum tax; (vii) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; (viii) introducing limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation; and (ix) changing rules related to uses and limitations of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate as we continue to quantify and implement the various aspects of the Tax Act over the next 12 to 24 months. If any regulations or clarifications about the Tax Act are published that cause us to change how we originally accounted for these new provisions, then our effective tax rate could fluctuate as a result.. 37. Table of Contents. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and these rights are important to our success.. We develop, use, and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies, and other intellectual property. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure agreements, and other contractual arrangements, as well as copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements might not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Our intellectual property rights might not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours or alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights in certain jurisdictions. The steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property or claims against us for alleged infringement or misappropriation by competitors, former employees, or other third parties. Furthermore, we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money, and oversight, and we might not be successful in enforcing our rights.. Our acquisition strategy may present additional risks.. We have historically grown our business both organically and through acquisitions, most recently and notably of inVentiv. We have and will continue to assess the need and opportunity to offer additional services through acquisitions of other companies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:. • ability to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms;. • increased risk to our financial position and liquidity through changes to our capital structure and assumption of acquired liabilities, including any indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisitions and related interest expense;. • diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business;. • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions;. • assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, including liabilities for their failure to comply with healthcare, tax, and other regulations;. • inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition;. • ability to integrate acquired operations, products, and technologies into our business;. • difficulties integrating acquired personnel and distinct cultures into our business; and. • the potential loss of key employees, customers, or projects.. We may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the merger. Any acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction expenses, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, and, with respect to the acquisition of international companies, the inability to overcome differences in international business practices, language and customs. Our failure to successfully integrate inVentiv and potential future acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. We have completed a number of acquisitions in the past, most recently and notably inVentiv, and anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from strategic or tuck-in acquisitions. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to execute against identified synergies and. 38. Table of Contents. effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, products, and technologies into our business, and to retain the key personnel and customers of our acquired businesses. In addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms.. Our relationships with existing or potential customers who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other customers or potential customers use our services, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers, and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. In addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. Biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. We regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services to such customers regarding competing drugs in the market and in development. Our existing or future relationships, particularly broader strategic provider and commercial relationships, with our biopharmaceutical customers may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical customers from using our services or may result in our customers seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants. In addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical customers, and such customers may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve customers in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. Any loss of customers or reductions in the level of revenues from a customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets.. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill and net intangible assets were valued at $5.58 billion, which constituted approximately 77% of our total assets.. Our goodwill is principally related to the Merger completed in August 2017. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below the operating segment level. This test requires us to determine if the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is less than its carrying amount. The impairment analysis requires significant judgments, estimates and assumptions. There is no assurance that the actual future earnings or cash flows of the reporting units will not decline significantly from the projections used in the impairment analysis. Goodwill impairment charges may be recognized in future periods in one or more of the reporting units to the extent changes in factors or circumstances occur, including deterioration in the macroeconomic environment or industry, deterioration in our performance or our future projections, or changes in plans for one or more of our reporting units. As of October 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017, we assigned goodwill to five reporting units. We completed our annual impairment test for potential impairment as of October 1, 2017 for all of our reporting units, determining that there were no impairments.. Intangible assets consist of backlog, customer relationships, and trademarks. We review intangible assets at the end of each reporting period to determine if facts and circumstances indicate that the useful life is shorter than originally estimated or that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. If such facts and circumstances exist, we assess the recoverability of identified assets by comparing the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related asset or group of assets over their remaining lives to their respective carrying amounts. Impairments, if any, are based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of those assets and occur in the period in which the impairment determination was made. In connection with the Merger we announced our intentions to relaunch our operations under a new brand name in January 2018. As a result, in the third quarter of 2017 we determined that the useful life of our intangible asset related to the INC Research trademark with carrying value of $35.0 million was no longer indefinite and recorded a $30.0 million impairment charge with the remaining value amortized over the remainder of 2017.. 39. Table of Contents. We face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or business reputation.. From time to time, we have adopted cost savings initiatives to improve our operating efficiency through various means such as: (i) the reduction of overcapacity, primarily in our costs of services (billable) function; (ii) elimination of non-billable support roles; and (iii) the consolidation or other realignment of our resources. In connection with the Merger, we have established a restructuring plan to eliminate redundant positions and reduce our facility footprint worldwide. We expect to continue the ongoing evaluations of our workforce and facilities infrastructure needs through 2020 in an effort to optimize our resources worldwide. Additionally, in conjunction with the Merger, we assumed certain liabilities related to employee severance and facility closure costs as a result of actions taken by inVentiv prior to the Merger. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized approximately $11.3 million of employee severance and benefit costs, facility closure and lease termination costs of $2.2 million, and other costs of $2.0 million related to the Merger. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized approximately $9.4 million of non-Merger related  employee severance costs and incurred $1.3 million of non-Merger related facility closure and lease termination costs related to our focus on optimizing our resources worldwide.. Restructuring actions present significant risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or business reputation. Such risks include:. • a decrease in employee morale and retention of key employees;. • a greater number of employment claims;. • actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to customers;. • the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise;. • the failure to achieve targeted cost savings; and. • the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur.. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA, UK Bribery Act of 2010, and/or similar worldwide anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws.. The FCPA, UK Bribery Act of 2010, and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, anti-corruption laws have appeared to conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from acts in violation of anti-corruption laws committed by persons associated with us, and our continued expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase such risk in the future. Violations of the FCPA or other non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, or even allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and reputation. For example, violations of anti-corruption laws can result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions. In some cases, companies that violate the FCPA might be debarred by the U.S. government and/or lose their U.S. export privileges. In addition, U.S. or other governments might seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies that we acquire or in which we invest. Changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The failure of third parties to provide us critical support services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or reputation.. We depend on third parties for support services vital to our business. Such support services include, but are not limited to, IT services, laboratory services, third-party transportation and travel providers, freight forwarders and customs brokers, drug depots and distribution centers, suppliers or contract manufacturers of. 40. Table of Contents. drugs for patients participating in clinical trials, and providers of licensing agreements, maintenance contracts or other services. In addition, we also rely on third-party CROs and other contract clinical personnel for clinical services either in regions where we have limited resources, or in cases where demand cannot be met by our internal staff. The failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide us critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. We might not be able to utilize certain of our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes, which could harm our profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.0 billion of net operating loss carry forwards (\"NOLs\") available to reduce U.S. federal taxable income in future years. Under Section 382 and similar provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (\"the Code\"), if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" that corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited for U.S. federal income tax purposes (or similar provisions of other jurisdictions). These limitations may be subject to certain exceptions, including if there is \"net unrealized built-in gain\" in the assets of the corporation undergoing the ownership change.. inVentiv had significant NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which, until they expire, generally can be carried forward to reduce taxable income in future years. In addition, certain of inVentiv's NOLs and tax attributes are subject to existing limitations under Section 382 and similar provisions of the Code as a result of inVentiv's prior ownership changes. The application of these provisions with respect to inVentiv's NOLs and other tax attributes, including the determination of the amount of any \"net unrealized built-in gain\" in inVentiv's assets, is complex, involving, among other things, certain factual determinations regarding value and built-in gain amounts. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS (or other taxing authority in a jurisdiction applying similar law) would not assert our ability to utilize inVentiv's NOLs and other tax attributes is subject to limitations that are different from the limitations as determined by us, or that a court would not agree with such an assertion.. The benefit of the inVentiv NOLs is uncertain even without regard to the Section 382 rules. Due to the corporate income tax rate change pursuant to the Tax Act, the value of our NOLs was significantly decreased. In addition, a portion of inVentiv's NOLs arise from certain transaction tax deductions associated with Double Eagle's acquisition of inVentiv on November 9, 2016. Pursuant to that acquisition, inVentiv generally has a contingent obligation to pay former shareholders of inVentiv Group Holdings the value of U.S. federal, state and local tax benefits arising from those transaction tax deductions as such benefits are realized and, consequently, the ability of the combined company to benefit from inVentiv's NOLs will be limited to the extent of such contingent obligation.. Further, as of December 31, 2017, we assessed both positive and negative evidence in evaluating whether we could support the recognition of our U.S. net deferred tax asset position or if a valuation allowance would be required. A significant piece of objective negative evidence that we considered was the cumulative loss over the three-year period ended December 31, 2017. This objective evidence limited our ability to consider subjective positive evidence, such as forecasted projections of income. Therefore, the Company recorded a charge to income tax expense in the amount of $52.6 million for the net increase in the valuation allowance.. However, given our anticipated future earnings and the new GILTI and BEAT provisions under the Tax Act, we believe there is a reasonable possibility that within the next 12 to 24 months, sufficient positive evidence may become available to allow us to reach a conclusion that a significant portion of the valuation allowance will no longer be needed. Consequently, such release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of certain deferred tax assets and a decrease to the tax expense in the period that the release is recorded. However, the exact timing and amount of the valuation allowance release is unknown at this time.. Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us.. We can be adversely affected by downgrades of our credit ratings because ratings are a factor influencing our ability to access capital and the terms of any new indebtedness, including covenants and interest rates. Our customers and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. 41. Table of Contents. Many of our vendors have the right to declare us in default of our agreements if any such vendor, including the lessors under our vehicle fleet leases, determines that a change in our financial condition poses a substantially increased credit risk. Upon default, the lessors can repossess the vehicles and require us to compensate them for any remaining lease payments in excess of the value of the repossessed vehicles. As of December 31, 2017, we had $36.8 million in capital lease obligations, primarily related to vehicles used in our Selling Solutions offering in the United States. Our Selling Solutions offering may be negatively impacted if we lose the use of vehicles for any period of time.. Our 2017 Credit Agreement contains covenants that may restrict our ability to, among other things, borrow money, pay dividends, make capital expenditures, make strategic acquisitions and effect a consolidation, merger, or disposal of all or substantially all of our assets. Refer to \"Risks Related to Our Indebtedness - Covenant restrictions under our 2017 Credit Agreement may limit our ability to operate our business\" for further details on our covenant restrictions.. Risks Related to Our Industry. The biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive and our business could be materially impacted if we do not compete effectively.. The biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. Our business often competes with other biopharmaceutical services companies, internal discovery departments, development departments, sales and marketing departments, information technology departments, and other departments within our customers, some of which could be considered large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. We also compete with universities, teaching hospitals, governmental agencies and others. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. The industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of companies with global capabilities similar to certain of our own capabilities. Increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition (such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms) that could adversely affect our operating results. There are few barriers to entry for companies considering offering any one or more of the services we offer. Because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. In recent years, our industry has experienced increased consolidation and might continue to, which might put us at risk of growing more slowly than our competitors that make acquisitions. This trend is likely to produce more competition from the resulting larger companies, and ones without the cost pressures of being public, for both customers and acquisition candidates. One specific aspect of this consolidation competition involves CROs entering into transactions to attempt to control more access to clinical trial participants, like acquisition of site networks and data. These trends could make it harder for us to compete successfully.. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to successfully compete with other companies that provide similar services in the same markets, some of which may have financial, marketing, technical, and other advantages. We also expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation among these various companies. Large technology companies with substantial resources, technical expertise, and greater brand power could also decide to enter or further expand in the markets where our business operates and compete with us. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, or if a new entrant emerged with substantial resources, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We compete on the basis of various factors, including breadth and depth of services, reputation, reliability, quality, innovation, security, price, and industry expertise and experience. In addition, our ability to compete successfully may be impacted by the growing availability of health information from social media, government health information systems, and other free or low-cost sources. In addition, consolidation or integration of wholesalers, retail pharmacies, health networks, payers, or other healthcare stakeholders may lead any of them to provide information services directly to customers or indirectly through a designated service provider, resulting in increased competition from firms that may have lower costs to market (e.g., no data supply costs). Any of the above may result in lower demand for our services, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.. 42. Table of Contents. Outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and research and development budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate.. Our revenues depend on the level of R&D and commercialization expenditures, size of the drug-development pipelines and outsourcing trends of the biopharmaceutical industry, including the amount of such R&D spend that is outsourced and subject to competitive bidding amongst us and our competitors. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our business.. Biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global CROs with favorable pricing terms. Competition for these collaborations is intense and we might not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the customer, if any, may be limited. Our success depends in part on our ability to establish and maintain preferred provider relationships with large biopharmaceutical companies. Our failure to develop or maintain these preferred provider relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, in order to obtain preferred provider relationships, we may have to reduce the prices for our services, which could negatively impact our gross margin for these services.. In addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials or commercialization services or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our customers, result in the delay or cancellation of existing projects, cause reductions in overall R&D expenditures, or lead to increased pricing pressures. Further, in the event that one of our customers combines with a company that is using the services of one of our competitors, the combined company could decide to use the services of that competitor or another provider. All of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. Actions by government regulators or customers to limit a prescription's scope or withdraw an approved product from the market could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Government regulators have the authority, after approving a biopharmaceutical product, to limit its scope of prescription or withdraw it from the market completely based on safety concerns. Similarly, customers may act to voluntarily limit the scope of prescription of biopharmaceutical products or withdraw them from the market. Actions by payors to limit a product on a formulary list can influence customer decisions to withdraw or limit market support for a product. In the past, we have provided services with respect to products that have been limited or withdrawn. If we are providing services to customers for products that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such products, which would prevent us from earning the full amount of revenues anticipated under the related contracts with negative impacts to our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. If we fail to comply with federal, state, and foreign healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and prospects could be adversely affected.. Even though we do not and will not order healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws of both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exceptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. 43. Table of Contents. We may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms which may adversely impact the biopharmaceutical industry and reduce the need for our services or negatively impact our profitability.. Numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control healthcare costs through legislation, regulation, and agreements with healthcare providers and biopharmaceutical companies, including many of our customers. As governmental administrations change and reforms take place, we are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. If regulatory cost-containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs by, for example, continuing to place downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing and/or increasing regulatory burdens and operating costs of the biopharmaceutical industry, our customers may reduce their commercialization and R&D spending, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. In addition, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease.. Government bodies have adopted and may continue to adopt new healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. For example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the Drug Safety Oversight Board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory requirements may increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services. We might have to incur additional costs to comply with these or other new regulations, and failure to comply could harm our financial condition, results or operations, cash flows, and reputation. Additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our customers to conduct industry-sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our post-approval development services.. Current and proposed laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our service offerings.. The confidentiality, collection, use, and disclosure of personal data, including clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country in which the personal data was collected or used. For example, U.S. federal regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, (\"HIPAA\") generally require individuals' written authorization, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information (\"PHI\") may be used for research and such regulations specify standards for de-identification and for limited data sets. We may also be subject to applicable state privacy and security laws and regulations in states in which we operate. We are indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many principal investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a HIPAA \"covered entity.\" In addition, we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. While we do not believe we are a \"business associate\" under HIPAA, regulatory agencies may disagree. Because of amendments to the HIPAA data security and privacy rules that were promulgated on January 25, 2013, some of which went into effect on March 26, 2013, there are some instances where HIPAA \"business associates\" of a \"covered entity\" may be directly liable for breaches of PHI and other HIPAA violations. These amendments may subject \"business associates\" to HIPAA's enforcement scheme, which, as amended, can yield up to $1.5 million in annual civil penalties for each HIPAA violation.. In the EU and many other data privacy laws outside of the U.S., personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person, with health, genetic, biometric, and other sensitive personal information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use, or disclosure of the information. In addition, we are subject to EU rules with respect to cross-border transfers of such data out of the EU. The United States, the EU and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as Japan, China, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Russia, and Singapore, continue to issue new privacy and data protection laws, rules, and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. Failure to comply with certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy laws, rules, and regulations in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy or security complaints, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, delays in clinical trials, criminal prosecution, or civil liability. Federal, state, and foreign governments may propose or have adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use, or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. Additional legislation or regulation of. 44. Table of Contents. this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or to pseudonymize or de-identify health or other personal data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. Additionally, if we violate applicable laws, rules, or regulations relating to the collection, use, privacy, or security of personal data, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal prosecution, be forced to alter our business practices and suffer reputational harm. The European General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") goes into effect on May 25, 2018, replacing the existing EU data protection framework. The GDPR contains new provisions specifically directed at the processing of health information, rights of data subjects, higher sanctions, and extra-territoriality measures intended to bring non-EU companies under the regulation.. Our customers face intense competition from lower cost generic products and other competing products, which may lower the amount that they spend on our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. Our customers face increasing competition from competing products and, in particular, from lower cost generic products, which in turn may affect their ability to pursue clinical development and commercialization activities. In the United States, the EU and Japan, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription products has led to legislation and other measures which encourage the use of generic products. In addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the United States and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic products. Loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing our customers' sales of that product and their overall profitability. Availability of generic substitutes for our customers' products or other competing products may cause them to lose market share and, as a result, may adversely affect their results of operations and cash flow, which in turn may mean that they would not have adequate capital to purchase our services. If competition from generic or other products impacts our customers' finances such that they decide to curtail our services, our net revenues may decline and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological change, our services may become less competitive or obsolete.. The biopharmaceutical industry generally, and drug development and clinical research more specifically, are subject to rapid technological change. Our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. If our competitors introduce superior technologies or services and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers or be unable to attract new customers, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. In addition, the operation of our business relies on IT infrastructure and systems delivered across multiple platforms. The failure of our systems to perform could severely disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Our systems are also vulnerable to demise from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or hackers, power loss, or other technology system failures. These events could adversely affect our business or results of operations.. The biopharmaceutical industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits.. The biopharmaceutical industry has a history of intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue in the future. Accordingly, we may face patent infringement suits or be called upon to provide documentation by companies that have patents for similar business processes or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time, and divert management's attention from other business concerns, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. In the event an infringement lawsuit were brought against us and we did not prevail, we might have to pay substantial damages and we could be required to stop infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms.. 45. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows from operations.. On August 1, 2017, we entered into a credit agreement (the \"2017 Credit Agreement\") and used the proceeds to: (i) repay the Company's and inVentiv's pre-Merger term loans; (ii) partially redeem inVentiv's Senior Notes; and (iii) pay certain fees and expenses related to the Merger. As of December 31, 2017, our total principal amount of indebtedness was $2.99 billion, which was comprised of: (i) a $1.0 billion Term Loan A facility; (ii) a $1.55 billion Term Loan B facility; and (iii) $403.0 million of Senior Notes. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows from operations and thus make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior secured facilities. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt and adequately fund our business, we may be required to seek further additional financing or refinancing or dispose of assets. We might not be able to influence any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms or at all. Our substantial indebtedness could also:. • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic, industry, or competitive developments;. • require us to dedicate a more substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, investments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our ability to make required payments under our existing contractual commitments, including our existing long-term indebtedness;. • limit our ability to fund a change of control offer;. • require us to sell certain assets;. • restrict us from making strategic investments, including acquisitions, or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. • cause us to incur substantial fees from time to time in connection with debt amendments or refinancings;. • increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a substantial portion of our borrowings is at variable interest rates; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow on terms that are satisfactory to us.. Despite our level of indebtedness, we are able to incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. Incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition.. We may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Although covenants under our 2017 Credit Agreement limit our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness, the risks associated with our leverage described above, including our possible inability to service our debt obligations, would increase.. 46. Table of Contents. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control.. Our ability to make payments on and refinance our debt, make strategic acquisitions, and fund capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future. To some extent, our ability to generate future cash flow is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that:. • our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations;. • we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth, and operating improvements that resulted from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or. • future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs.. We also may experience difficulties repatriating cash from foreign subsidiaries and accounts due to law, regulation or contracts which could further constrain our liquidity. If we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, marketing efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable or favorable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could increase.. Covenant restrictions under our 2017 Credit Agreement may limit our ability to operate our business.. Our 2017 Credit Agreement contains covenants that may restrict our ability to, among other things, borrow money, pay dividends, make capital expenditures, make strategic acquisitions and effect a consolidation, merger or disposal of all or substantially all of our assets. Although the covenants in our 2017 Credit Agreement are subject to various exceptions, we cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance future operations, capital needs, or to engage in other activities that may be in our best interest. In addition, in certain circumstances, our long-term debt requires us to maintain a specified financial ratio and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured facilities. If an event of default under our 2017 Credit Agreement occurs, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. In such case, we might not have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts. In addition, our 2017 Credit Agreement is secured by first priority security interests on substantially all of our real and personal property, including the capital stock of certain of our subsidiaries. If an event of default under our 2017 Credit Agreement occurs, the lenders thereunder could exercise their rights under the related security documents. Any acceleration of amounts due under our 2017 Credit Agreement or the substantial exercise by the lenders of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us.. Under the terms of the lease agreement for our new corporate headquarters in Morrisville, North Carolina we are required to issue a letter of credit (\"LOC\") to the landlord based on our debt rating issued by Moody's Investors Service (or other nationally-recognized debt rating agency). From June 14, 2017 through June 14, 2020, if our debt rating is Ba3 or better, no LOC is required, or if our debt rating is B1 or lower, a LOC equal to 25% of the remaining minimum annual rent and estimated operating expenses (or a LOC of approximately $24.2 million as of December 31, 2017) is required to be issued to the landlord. This LOC would remain in effect until our debt rating increased to Ba3 or higher for a twelve-month period. After June 14, 2020, if our debt rating is Ba2 or better, no LOC is required; if our debt rating is Ba3 or lower, a LOC equal to 25% of the then remaining minimum annual rent and estimated operating expenses is required to be issued to the landlord (estimated at approximately $22.0 million as of December 31, 2017); or if our debt rating is B1 or lower, a LOC equal to 100% of the then remaining minimum annual rent and estimated operating expenses is required to be issued to the landlord (estimated at approximately $87.9 million as of December 31, 2017).. 47. Table of Contents. These letters of credit would remain in effect until our debt rating is back above the required threshold for a twelve-month period.. As of December 31, 2017 (and through the date of this filing), our debt rating was Ba3. As such, no LOC is currently required. Any letters of credit issued in accordance with the aforementioned requirements would be issued under our Revolver, and would reduce our available borrowing capacity by the same amount accordingly.. Interest rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Because we have substantial variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We currently utilize interest rate swaps to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations; however, such instruments may not be effective. At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.99 billion of total principal indebtedness comprised of $2.55 billion in term loan debt, $403.0 million in Senior Notes, and $36.8 million of capital leases, of which $2.43 billion was subject to variable interest rates.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price is subject to volatility, which could have a material adverse impact on investors and employee retention.. Since our initial public offering in November 2014 (the \"IPO\"), the price of our stock, as reported by NASDAQ, has ranged from a low of $19.61 on November 7, 2014 to a high of $61.10 on June 19, 2017. In addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could affect stock price in ways that may be unrelated to our operating performance. The trading price of our stock is subject to significant price fluctuations in response to many factors, including:. • market conditions or trends in our industry, including with respect to the regulatory environment, or the economy as a whole;. • fluctuations in quarterly operating results, as well as differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors, especially as we integrate inVentiv into our company;. • future performance guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance or our failure to meet this guidance;. • changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow our stock, our failure to meet those estimates or the failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock;. • changes in key personnel;. • entry into new markets;. • announcements by us or our competitors of new service offerings or significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • actions by competitors;. • changes in operating performance and market valuations of other companies in the industry;. • investors' perceptions of our prospects and the prospects of the industry;. • investors' perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our stock relative to other investment alternatives;. • the public's reaction to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC;. • announcements related to litigation;. 48. Table of Contents. • changes in the credit ratings of our debt;. • the sustainability of an active trading market for our stock;. • future sales of our stock by our significant shareholders, officers and directors; and. • other events or factors, including those resulting from system failures and disruptions, cyber-attacks, earthquakes, hurricanes, war, acts of terrorism, other natural disasters or responses to these events.. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for shares of our stock to fluctuate substantially, which could result in reduced liquidity and a decline in the price of our stock. When the market price of a stock is volatile, security holders often institute class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management's attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our stock for the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Board and will depend on our financial condition, capital requirements, legal requirements, earnings and other factors. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by the terms of our 2017 Credit Agreement and might be restricted by the terms of any indebtedness that we incur in the future. Consequently, you should not rely on dividends in order to receive a return on your investment. For additional information on our dividend policy, see Part II, Item 5, \"Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Future sales of our stock in the public market could cause the market price of our stock to decrease significantly.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 104,435,501 outstanding shares of Class A common stock. In addition, we had 3,425,085 shares of outstanding options and restricted stock units that, if exercised or sold, would result in these additional shares becoming available for sale subject, in some cases, to Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. Our private equity sponsors (the \"Sponsors\") together own approximately 46% of our outstanding shares and have contractual rights to cause us to register resales of those shares starting in February 2018.. Sales or issuances of substantial amounts of our stock in the public market by us or our shareholders may cause the market price of our stock to decrease significantly. The perception that such sales or issuances could occur could also depress the market price of our stock. Any such sales or issuances could also create public perception of difficulties or problems with our business and might also make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. Our Sponsors have significant influence over our company, and their interests may be different from or conflict with those of our other shareholders.. Our Sponsors collectively beneficially own approximately 46% of our outstanding common stock. As a consequence, the Sponsors continue to be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management, affairs, and matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and any other significant transaction. Additionally, each of the Sponsors is party to a stockholders agreement with us (the \"Stockholders Agreements\"). The Stockholders Agreements, among other things, requires such shareholders to vote in favor of certain nominees to our Board. The interests of the Sponsors might not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. For instance, this concentration of ownership and/or the restrictions imposed by the Stockholders Agreements may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us otherwise favored by our other shareholders and could depress our stock price.. The Sponsors each make investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Each of the Sponsors may also pursue, for its own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those. 49. Table of Contents. acquisition opportunities might not be available to us. Our organizational documents contain provisions renouncing any interest or expectancy held by our directors affiliated with the Sponsors in certain corporate opportunities. Accordingly, the interests of the Sponsors may supersede ours, causing the Sponsors or their affiliates to compete against us or to pursue opportunities instead of us, for which we have no recourse. Such actions on the part of the Sponsors and inaction on our part could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Sponsors control four seats on our Board. Since the Sponsors could invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us, when conflicts arise between the interests of the Sponsors and the interests of our shareholders, these directors might not be disinterested.. Provisions of our corporate governance documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our shareholders.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that delay, defer or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or change in our management that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our stock, thereby depressing the market price of our stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of the Board. Because the Board is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace current members of our management team. Among others, these provisions include: (i) our ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; (ii) the requirement that our shareholders may not act without a meeting; (iii) requirements for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals contained in our bylaws; (iv) the absence of cumulative voting for our directors; (v) requirements for shareholder approval of certain business combinations; and (vi) the limitations on director nominations contained in our Stockholders Agreement.. Additionally, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\") prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the Merger in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provision could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our stock, thereby depressing the market price of our stock.. If securities analysts or industry analysts downgrade our shares, publish negative research or reports, or do not publish reports about our business, stock price, and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our stock is to some extent influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business and our industry. If one or more analysts adversely change their recommendation regarding our shares or our competitors' stock, our share price would likely decline. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we might lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. We are incurring increased costs and obligations as a result of being a public company.. As a public company, we are required to comply with certain additional corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies. As a result, due to compliance requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Sarbanes-Oxley\"), the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the NASDAQ, and other applicable securities rules and regulations, we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and operating results with the SEC. We are also required to ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements and other disclosures that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased and may continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources.. 50. Table of Contents. We might not be successful in complying with these requirements and the significant amount of resources required to ensure compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our internal controls over financial reporting are required to meet all the standards of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires management and our independent registered public accounting firm to assess and attest to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. The rules governing the standards that must be met to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation of our existing controls and could result in incurring significant additional expenditures. We are required to design, implement and test our internal controls over financial reporting in order to comply with this obligation. The effort necessary to meet these requirements is time consuming, costly, and complicated, and we must continually evaluate and refine these processes on an ongoing basis. We might encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any required improvements and therefore fail to receive a favorable attestation provided by our independent registered public accounting firm.. As a private company, inVentiv was not subject to the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Now that the Merger has been completed, we must devote significant management time and other resources to ensure that the combined company complies with the requirements of Section 404, and there can be no assurance that it will.. Further, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may exist or otherwise be discovered in the future. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control environment, such failure could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely, resulting in misstatements and/or restatements of our consolidated financial statements, which may cause investors to lose confidence and have a material adverse effect on our stock price, reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We are a holding company and rely on dividends and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations and pay any dividends.. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than ownership of 100% of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, and to pay any dividends with respect to our stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in our 2017 Credit Agreement and other agreements which may govern future indebtedness of our subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries might not be sufficient to pay dividends, make distributions, or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our stock or other obligations. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Risks Relating to the Merger. We may be unable to fully realize the competitive and operating synergies that are projected to be achieved through the combination of INC Research's and inVentiv Health's offerings.. The success of the Merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the business of INC Research with the business of inVentiv Health and to achieve operating synergies. If we are not able to successfully achieve this objective, the anticipated benefits of the Merger might not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:. • difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination;. 51. Table of Contents. • challenges in attracting, retaining and replacing key personnel;. • challenges in creating a new culture for the combined company and maintaining employee morale throughout the post-Merger period of integration and combining the operations of the two companies;. • difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; and. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the Merger.. For example, we incurred and will incur substantial expenses in connection with consummation of the Merger and combining the businesses, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of the two companies. Many of the expenses incurred and to be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time and as result may exceed the savings that the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the combination of the businesses following the Merger Date.. It is possible that the integration process or other factors could result in the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. These transition matters could have an adverse effect on us for an undetermined amount of time after the Merger Date. In addition, events outside of our control, including changes in regulations and laws, as well as economic trends, could adversely affect our ability to realize the expected benefits from the Merger.. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the two businesses.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the two businesses. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating business practices and operations. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would restrict the realization of the full expected benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. Further, we may not have identified a significant risk within the inVentiv business that existed at the time of the Merger or that may develop in the future as a result of past practice of inVentiv. These unidentified risks may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:. • difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination;. • difficulties in the integration of the companies' businesses;. • difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company;. • difficulties in integrating employees from the two companies;. • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty regarding their future roles with our company, which might adversely affect our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key employees;. • lost customers and customer awards as a result of customers deciding not to do business with the combined company;. • difficulties in managing supplier relationships of both companies and resolving potential conflicts and consolidation issues that may arise;. 52. Table of Contents. • difficulties in systems integration, particularly information technology and finance systems, and conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the entities;. • difficulties in integrating and documenting processes and controls in conformance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which were not applicable to inVentiv prior to the Merger; and. • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses and delays associated with the Merger.. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if the operations of the businesses of INC Research and inVentiv Health are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the Merger might not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. These benefits might not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of INC Research and inVentiv Health. All of these factors could negatively impact our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger and negatively impact the price of our shares. As a result, there is no assurance that the combination of INC Research and inVentiv Health will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated.. Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the completion of the Merger.. Following the completion of the Merger, the size of our business increased significantly beyond the former size of either INC Research's or inVentiv Health's businesses on a standalone basis. Our Company has no prior experience integrating a business of the size and scale of inVentiv Health. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which poses substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. If we are unsuccessful in managing our integrated operations, or if we do not realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the Merger, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected and we might not be able to take advantage of business development opportunities."
