[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This section highlights the material risks that we currently face.  Please be aware that these risks may change over time and other risks may prove to be important in the future.  New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of our securities.. Competition in the financial services industry may adversely affect our future earnings and growth.. We operate in a highly competitive environment and our profitability and our future growth depends on our ability to compete successfully.  We face pricing competition for loans and deposits and we compete for customers based on such factors as convenience, product lines, accessibility of service and service capabilities.   Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do, enabling them to be more aggressive than us in competing for loans and deposits and investing in new products, technology and services.  In addition, the ability of non-bank competitors to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified the competition we face.  These non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us and, therefore, may be able to operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures.  This significant competition in attracting and retaining deposits and making loans as well as in providing other financial services may impact our future earnings and growth.. We may not realize the expected benefits from our efficiency and growth initiatives, which could negatively impact our future profitability.. In the current competitive banking environment, operating costs must reduce or grow much slower than overall revenue growth.  In addition, we must continue to implement strategies to grow our loan portfolio and increase non-interest income in order to realize continued earnings growth and to remain competitive with the other banks in the markets we serve.  Since 2010, we have implemented a series of strategic efficiency and growth initiatives for expense reduction, increased efficiencies and long-term growth.  While we have realized cost-savings and growth as a result of these initiatives, there is no guarantee that these initiatives will be successful in controlling expenses and growth revenues in the future.  In addition, while expense control continues to be a major focus for us, management also expects to continue to make strategic investments in technology and talent that are expected to improve our customer experience and support future growth which will require an increase in our expenditures.  There can be no assurance that we will ultimately realize the anticipated benefits of our expense reduction and growth strategies, which may impair our earnings growth.. We may not be able to successfully implement current or future information technology system enhancements and operational initiatives, which could adversely affect our business operations and profitability.. We are investing significant resources in information technology system enhancements and operational initiatives in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level, to improve our operating efficiency and to streamline our customer experience. We may not be able to successfully implement and integrate such system enhancements and initiatives, which could adversely impact the ability to comply with a number of legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities.  In addition, these projects could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations.  Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations, could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components and could impact our ability to compete.  In addition, we may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after implementation, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time.  As such, we cannot guarantee that the anticipated long-term benefits of these system enhancements and operational initiatives will be realized.. If our enterprise risk management framework is not effective at mitigating risk and loss to us, we could suffer unexpected losses and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our enterprise risk management framework seeks to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, which is critical to optimizing shareholder value.  We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including strategic, market, credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory compliance, litigation  and reputational. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified.  For example, the financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Our allowance for loan losses may not cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations.. We derive the most significant portion of our revenues from our lending activities.  When we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our. 28. borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts.  We estimate and maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expenses, which represents management's best estimate of probable credit losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans, as described under \"Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" and \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Allowance for Loan Losses\".  The allowance, in the judgment of management, is established to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio.  The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes.  Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, changes in assumptions regarding a borrower's ability to pay, changes in collateral values, risk ratings, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may cause the allowance for loan losses to become inadequate and require an increase in the provision for loan losses.  In addition, the FASB has adopted new accounting standards for the recognition and measurement of credit losses for loans and certain other instruments.  The new standards will be effective beginning January 1, 2020.  While we are still evaluating the impact of these new accounting standards, we expect that the allowance for loan losses will be higher under the new standard and as such, could have an impact on our results of operations.. Because the risk rating of the loans is dependent on certain subjective information and is subject to changes in the borrower's credit risk profile, evolving local market conditions and other factors, it can be difficult for us to predict the effects that those factors will have on the classifications assigned to the loan portfolio, and thus difficult to anticipate the velocity or volume of the migration of loans through the classification process and effect on the level of the allowance for loan losses.  Accordingly, we monitor our credit quality and our reserve requirements and use that as a basis for capital planning and other purposes.  See \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity\" and \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources\" of this Report for further information.. Various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination procedures, periodically review the allowance.  Based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination, such agencies may require us to recognize additions to the allowance or additional loan charge offs.  An increase in the allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease in net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations.. Any future economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, results of operations, and future growth.. Management continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout our footprint.  If conditions were to worsen nationally, regionally or locally, then we could see a sharp increase in our total net charge-offs and also be required to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses.  Furthermore, the demand for loans and our other products and services could decline.  An increase in our non-performing assets and related increases in our provision for loan losses, coupled with a potential decrease in the demand for loans and our other products and services, could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition, results of operations and future growth.. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our net interest income.. Net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, is a major component of our income and our primary source of revenue from our operations.  A narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The Federal Reserve began raising rates in recent years, but there is no assurance that rates will increase as expected, or at all. Regional and local economic conditions, competitive pressures and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB, affect interest income and interest expense.  We have ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on our profitability.  A significant portion of our loans, including commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans, bear interest at variable rates.  Increases in market interest rates can have a negative impact on our business, including reducing the amount of money our customers borrow or by adversely affecting their ability to repay outstanding loan balances that may increase due to adjustments in their variable rates. In addition, as interest rates increase, in order to compete for deposits in our primary market areas, we may have to offer more attractive interest rates to depositors, or pursue other sources of liquidity, such as wholesale funds. While we actively manage these risks through hedging and other risk mitigation strategies, if our assumptions are wrong or overall economic conditions are significantly different than anticipated, our risk mitigation techniques may be insufficient.. Our net interest income was $1.02 billion for 2017, an increase of 13.8% compared to $899.2 million for 2016.  Our total loans were $24.79 billion as of December 31, 2017, an increase of 3.9% compared to $23.86 billion as of December 31, 2016.  Any future decrease in loan yields or lower realized yields on investment securities could reduce our net interest income and could cause pressure on net interest income in future periods.  Net interest income also may be negatively impacted by the high level of. 29. competition that we face in our primary market area.  A significant reduction in our net interest income could have a material adverse impact on our capital, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees, which may adversely impact our ability to successfully execute our growth strategies.. Our financial success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel.  We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees from financial institutions and others.  Moreover, as the banking industry transforms due to technological innovation, we must continually assess and manage how our talent needs change over time.  In addition, our future growth and the continued diversification of our loan portfolio depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain the right mix of well-qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our ability to execute our business strategies may suffer and we may be required to substantially increase our overall compensation or benefits to attract and retain such employees.  In June 2010, the federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks.  In 2016, the federal banking regulators also proposed rules that would, depending upon the assets of the institution, directly regulate incentive compensation arrangements and would require enhanced oversight and recordkeeping.  As of December 31, 2017, these rules have not been implemented.  These regulations may significantly restrict the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation and may put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to non-financial institutions in terms of attracting and retaining key employees.. The financial services market is undergoing rapid technological changes, and if we are unable to stay current with those changes, we will not be able to effectively compete.. The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to keep pace with these technological changes and to use technology to satisfy and grow customer demand for our products and services and to create additional efficiencies in our operations.  We expect that we will need to make substantial investments in our technology and information systems to compete effectively and to stay current with technological changes.  Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements and will be able to invest more heavily in developing and adopting new technologies, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage.  We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.  As a result, our ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.. We rely extensively on information technology systems to operate our business and an interruption or security breach may disrupt our business operations, result in reputational harm and have an adverse effect on our operations.. As a large financial institution, we rely extensively on our information technology systems to operate our business, including to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis.  As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns.  Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control.  For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks.. We have policies, procedures and systems designed to prevent or limit the effect of possible failures, interruptions or breaches in security of information systems and  business continuity programs designed to provide services in the case of an event resulting in material disruptions of our operating systems.  We regularly seek to test the effectiveness of and enhance these policies, procedures and systems.  However, there is no guarantee that these safeguards or programs will address all of the threats that continue to evolve.. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems, or devices that our customers use to access our products and services, could result in customer attrition, regulatory and other fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We face significant cyber and data security risk that could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect our business or reputation and expose us to significant liabilities.. As a large financial institution, we are under continuous threat of loss due to the velocity and sophistication of cyber-attacks. This risk continues to increase.  Two of the most significant cyber-attack risks that we face are e-fraud and loss of sensitive customer. 30. data.  Loss from e-fraud occurs when cybercriminals breach and extract funds directly from customer or our accounts. Any loss of sensitive customer data that results from attempts to breach our systems, such as account numbers and social security numbers, would present significant reputational, legal and/or regulatory costs to us.  Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of these threats from cybercriminals and hackers, our plans to continue to provide internet banking and mobile banking channels, and our plans to develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers. While we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches to date, we have been the subject of attempted hacking and cyber-attacks and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future.. The occurrence of any cyber-attack or information security breach could result in material adverse consequences to us including damage to our reputation and the loss of customers.  We also could face litigation or additional regulatory scrutiny. Litigation or regulatory actions in turn could lead to significant liability or other sanctions, including fines and penalties or reimbursement to customers adversely affected by a security breach.  Even if we do not suffer any material adverse consequences as a result of events affecting us directly, successful attacks or systems failures at other large financial institutions could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions including us.. We continually review the security of our IT systems and make the necessary investments to improve the resiliency of our systems and their security from attack.  Nonetheless, there remains the risk that we may be materially harmed by a cyber-attack or information security breach.  Attack methods continue to evolve in sophistication, velocity, and frequency and can occur from a variety of sources, such as foreign governments, hacktivists, or other well-financed entities, and may originate from less regulated and remote areas of the world.   As a result, if such an attack or breach does occur, we will take reasonable and customary measures to address the situation, based on our crisis management plan; however, there can be no assurance that such measures will effectively prevent or mitigate any resulting losses.. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.. Third parties provide key components of our business operations such as data processing, recording and monitoring transactions, online banking interfaces and services, Internet connections and network access.  We have selected these third-party vendors carefully and have conducted the due diligence consistent with regulatory guidance and best practices.  While we have ongoing programs to review third party vendors and assess risk, we do not control their actions.  Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor, failure of a vendor to provide services for any reason or poor performance of services, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business.  Financial or operational difficulties of a third-party vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor's ability to serve us.  Furthermore, our vendors could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.  Replacing these third-party vendors could also create significant delay and expense. Accordingly, use of such third parties creates an unavoidable inherent risk to our business operations.. We intend to pursue acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. If we are unable to identify attractive acquisition targets and complete such acquisitions on favorable terms or we fail to successfully integrate bank or nonbank acquisitions into our existing operations, our growth prospects may be impaired and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from future acquisitions.. Part of our growth strategy is to pursue and complete acquisitions of bank or non-bank operations that meet our acquisition criteria.  However, we may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, and even if we identify such candidates, we may not be successful in completing such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all.. In particular, difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of BHCs, banks and other non-bank entities we acquire and, as a result, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits, cost savings and other synergies that we expect will result from such transactions.  Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services.  Additional savings are dependent upon the integration of the acquired entity's businesses with our businesses, the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices.  The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of our businesses or the businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. In addition, we must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions before we can complete an acquisition of another bank or BHC, including federal and/or state regulatory approvals.  Also, under the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators must take systemic risk into account when evaluating whether to approve a potential acquisition transaction.   We cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted, if at all.. 31. Regulation of the financial services industry continues to undergo major changes, and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position.. The Dodd-Frank Act brought about a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, mortgage lending practices, registration of investment advisors and changes among the bank regulatory agencies.  Key provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that have impacted or are likely to impact our operations or the operations of Synovus Bank include:. • Creation of the CFPB with centralized authority, including examination and enforcement authority, for consumer protection in the banking industry.. • Limitations on federal preemption.. • Prohibitions and restrictions on the ability of a banking entity and nonbank financial company to engage in proprietary trading and have certain interests in, or relationships with, a hedge fund or private equity fund (the \"Volcker Rule\").. • Application of new regulatory capital requirements, including changes to leverage and risk-based capital standards and changes to the components of permissible tiered capital.. • Requirement that the company and its subsidiary bank be well capitalized and well managed in order to engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies.. • Changes to the assessment base for deposit insurance premiums.. • Permanently raising the FDIC's standard maximum deposit insurance amount to a $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance.. • Repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts.. • Restrictions on compensation, including a prohibition on incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses.. • Requirement that sponsors of asset-backed securities retain a percentage of the credit risk of the assets underlying the securities.. • Requirement that banking regulators remove references to and requirements of reliance upon credit ratings from their regulations and replace them with appropriate alternatives for evaluating credit worthiness.. • Rules pertaining to a mortgage borrower's ability to repay, mortgage loan originator compensation and qualifications, and integrated mortgage disclosure rules that will replace and combine certain existing requirements under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, among other requirements affecting the mortgage origination and secondary marketing of mortgages.. Some of these and other major changes could materially impact the profitability of our business, the value of assets we hold or the collateral available for our loans, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and expose us to additional costs, taxes, liabilities, enforcement actions and reputational risk.  Many of these provisions became effective upon enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, while others were subject to further study, rulemaking, and the discretion of regulatory bodies and have only recently taken effect or will take effect in coming years.  In light of these significant changes and the discretion afforded to federal regulators, we cannot fully predict the effect that compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act or any implementing regulations will have on our businesses or our ability to pursue future business opportunities.  Additional regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Certain other reform proposals have resulted in us becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors.  See \"Part I - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors\" of this Report for further information.  We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. The 2016 national election results have introduced further uncertainty into future implementation and enforcement of the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory requirements applicable to the banking sector.  In addition, various proposals for regulatory simplification or relief were proposed by Congress and the banking agencies in 2017. While these developments have contributed to increased market valuations of companies in the banking and financial services industry, including our company, there is no assurance that any regulatory changes will be implemented or that benefits to our future financial performance will continue to be realized.. 32. The full impact of Federal Tax Reform on us and our customers is unknown at present, creating uncertainty and risk related to our customers' future demand for credit and our future results.. While we expect Federal Tax Reform to have an overall positive impact on our business going forward, we continue to evaluate its impact on our business and that impact remains uncertain.  Increased economic activity is expected as a result of the decrease in tax rates on businesses generally, which could spur additional economic activity that would encourage additional borrowing.  At the same time, some customers may elect to use their additional cash flow from lower taxes to fund their existing levels of activity, decreasing borrowing needs.  The elimination of the federal income tax deductibility of business interest expenses for a significant number of customers effectively increases the cost of borrowing and could make equity or hybrid funding relatively more attractive.  Moreover, tax exempt borrowing may be less attractive in the future due to the decrease in tax rates generally. This could have long-term negative impact on business customer borrowing.  The differing effects of Federal Tax Reform for taxable corporations as compared to pass through entities owned by individuals also creates the potential for differing economic strategies by our customers that are presently uncertain and may continue to be for some time.. We are anticipating an increase in our after-tax net income available to shareholders in 2018 and future years as a result of the decrease in our effective tax rate.  Some or all of this benefit could be lost to the extent that our competitors elect to lower interest rates and fees and we are forced to respond in order to remain competitive.  Furthermore, we incurred a significant one-time, non-cash provisional charge resulting from the revaluation of our deferred tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2017.  The estimated impact of Federal Tax Reform is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions, but there is no assurance that the presently anticipated benefits of Federal Tax Reform on us will be realized or that we will not incur further charges with respect to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets.. We are subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk, and regulatory and compliance risk, and the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are exposed to many types of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal and regulatory and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, including unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems.  See \"Part I - Item 1. Business - Enterprise Risk Management\" of this Report for further information.  Negative public opinion may result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities.  Negative public opinion may adversely affect our ability to attract and keep customers and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action.  Actual or alleged conduct by us may result in negative public opinion about our business.  Negative public opinion may also affect our credit ratings, which are important to our access to unsecured wholesale borrowings.. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified.  Our necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process transactions, and our large transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect.  We also may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (for example, computer viruses, cyber-attacks  or electrical or telecommunications outages, or natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or physical assets) which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability.  The occurrence of any of these risks may result in a diminished ability of us to operate our business (for example, by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect), as well as potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.. As an issuer of credit and debit cards we are exposed to losses in the event that holders of our cards experience fraud on their card accounts.. Our customers regularly use Synovus-issued credit and debit cards to pay for transactions with retailers and other businesses.   There is the risk of data security breaches at these retailers and other businesses that could result in the misappropriation of our customers' credit and debit card information.  When our customers use Synovus-issued cards to make purchases from those businesses, card account information is provided to the business.  If the business's systems that process or store card account information are subject to a data security breach, holders of our cards who have made purchases from that business may experience fraud on their card accounts.  While we expect that the rollout of EMV-enabled credit and debit cards will have a positive impact on fraudulent transactions, we may nonetheless suffer losses associated with reimbursing our customers for fraudulent transactions on customers' card accounts, as well as for other costs related to data security compromise events, such as replacing cards associated with compromised card accounts. In addition, we provide card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with payment networks such as Visa and MasterCard.  Under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data security breach.. In the last several years, a number of large retailers suffered substantial data security breaches compromising millions of credit and debit card accounts.  To date, our losses and costs related to these breaches have not been material, but other similar events. 33. in the future could be more significant to us.. The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin.  They can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold. Federal Reserve policies may also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy.  This, in turn, may result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values.  Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict.  Also, potential new taxes on corporations generally, or on financial institutions specifically, would adversely affect our net income.. We may become subject to supervisory actions and enhanced regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock and preferred stock.. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions, state banking regulators, the Federal Reserve, and separately the FDIC as the insurer of bank deposits, each has the authority to compel or restrict certain actions on our part if any of them determine that we have insufficient capital or are otherwise operating in a manner that may be deemed to be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices.  In addition to examinations for safety and soundness, we and our subsidiaries also are subject to continuous examination by state and federal banking regulators, including the CFPB, for compliance with various laws and regulations, as well as consumer compliance initiatives.  As a result of this regulatory oversight and examination process, our regulators may require us to enter into informal or formal supervisory agreements, including board resolutions, memoranda of understanding, written agreements and consent or cease and desist orders, pursuant to which we could be required to take identified corrective actions to address cited concerns, or to refrain from taking certain actions.. If we become subject to and are unable to comply with the terms of any future regulatory actions or directives, supervisory agreements, or orders, then we could become subject to additional, heightened supervisory actions and orders, possibly including consent orders, prompt corrective action restrictions and/or other regulatory actions, including prohibitions on the payment of dividends on our common stock and Series C Preferred Stock.  If our regulators were to take such additional supervisory actions, then we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our ability to develop any new business, as well as restrictions on our existing business, and we could be required to raise additional capital, discontinue our share repurchase program, dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time, or all of the above.  The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock.  See \"Part 1 - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation, and Other Factors\" in this Report for further information.. We may be required to undertake additional strategic initiatives to improve our capital position due to changes in economic conditions or changes in regulatory capital rules. Effective January 1, 2015, the regulatory capital framework changed for us in important respects as a result of the Revised Rules.  Among other things, the Revised Rules raised the minimum thresholds for required capital and revised certain aspects of the definitions and elements of the capital that can be used to satisfy these required minimum thresholds.   The Revised Rules also introduced a minimum \"capital conservation buffer\" equal to 2.5% of an organization's total risk-weighted assets, which exists in addition to the required minimum CET1, Tier 1 and Total Capital ratios identified above.  The \"capital conservation buffer,\" which must consist entirely of CET1, is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress.  The implementation of the capital conservation buffer began on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and will be phased-in over a three-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).   At January 1, 2017, the buffer was increased to 1.25%. In addition, we repurchased $175.1 million of capital stock under our previously announced share repurchase program. As a result and as of December 31, 2017, our CET1 ratio under Basel III was 9.88% on a fully phased-in basis, which is in excess of the minimum common equity and additional conservation buffer stipulated by the Revised Rules.  See \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources\" and \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measures\" of this Report for applicable reconciliation to GAAP measure.. In addition to maintaining compliance with the Revised Rules, we and Synovus Bank are also subject to stress testing requirements, including public disclosures of certain results.  The results of such stress testing may require us to take certain actions to improve our capital position.  See \"Part 1 - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation, and Other Factors\" of this Report for further information.. Moreover, federal bank regulators have issued a series of guidance and rulemakings applicable to large banks.  While many of these do not currently apply to us due to our asset size, these issuances could impact industry capital standards and practices. 34. in many potentially unforeseeable ways.. We continue to actively monitor economic conditions, evolving industry capital standards, and changes in regulatory standards and requirements, and engage in regular discussions with our regulators regarding capital at both Synovus and Synovus Bank.  As part of our ongoing management of capital, we will continue to identify, consider, and pursue additional strategic initiatives to bolster our capital position as deemed necessary, including strategies that may be required to meet the requirements of the Revised Rules and other regulatory initiatives regarding capital, and will continue to evaluate our share repurchase program and increased dividends.  The need to maintain more capital and greater liquidity than has been required historically could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through future acquisitions.  It could also result in us taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders.. Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market may adversely affect our capital resources, liquidity and financial results.. We may be unable to access historical and alternative sources of liquidity, including the capital markets, brokered deposits, and borrowings from the FHLB, which could adversely affect our overall liquidity.  Liquidity represents the extent to which we have readily available sources of funding needed to meet the needs of our depositors, borrowers and creditors, to support asset growth, and to otherwise sustain our operations and the operations of our subsidiary bank.  In managing our consolidated balance sheet, we depend on access to a variety of sources of funding to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our customers.  Sources of funding available to us, and upon which we rely as regular components of our liquidity and funding management strategy, include borrowings from the FHLB and brokered deposits.  See \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity\" and \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources\" of this Report for further information.   We also have historically enjoyed a solid reputation in the capital markets and have been able to raise funds in the form of either short- or long-term borrowings or equity or debt issuances.  If, due to market disruptions, perceptions about our credit ratings or other factors, we are unable to access the capital markets in the future, our capital resources and liquidity may be adversely affected.. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impacts our costs of operating our business and growing our assets and can therefore positively or negatively affect our financial results.  A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms, including, but not limited to, a downgrade in our credit ratings, financial results, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions.  Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase.  Competition from these institutions may increase the cost of funds.. In addition to bank level liquidity management, we must manage liquidity at the Parent Company for various needs including potential capital infusions into subsidiaries, the servicing of debt, the payment of dividends on our common stock and preferred stock and share repurchases.  The primary source of liquidity for us consists of dividends from Synovus Bank which are governed by certain rules and regulations of our supervising agencies.  During 2015, Synovus Bank made upstream cash distributions to the Parent Company totaling $225.0 million including cash dividends of $199.9 million.  During 2016, Synovus Bank made upstream cash dividends to the Parent Company totaling $325.0 million.  During 2017, Synovus Bank and non-bank subsidiaries made cash distributions to the Parent Company totaling $451.0 million including cash dividends of $283.2 million.  In January 2018, Synovus Bank made an upstream cash dividend of $45 million to the Parent Company.  Synovus' ability to receive dividends from Synovus Bank in future periods will depend on a number of factors, including, without limitation, Synovus Bank's future profits, asset quality, liquidity and overall condition.  In addition, GA DBF rules and related statutes contain additional restrictions on payments of dividends by Synovus Bank.  In particular, the Georgia Financial Institutions Code contains restrictions on the ability of a Georgia bank to pay dividends other than from retained earnings and under other circumstances without the approval of the GA DBF.  As a result of these restrictions, Synovus Bank may be required to seek approval from the GA DBF to pay dividends.  See \"Part I - Item 1A. Risk Factors - We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt and repay maturing debt obligations\" of this Report.  See \"Part 1 - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation, and Other Factors - Dividends\" of this Report for further information.  Synovus expects that it will receive additional dividends from Synovus Bank in 2018.  If Synovus does not receive additional dividends from Synovus Bank in 2018 at the levels anticipated, its liquidity could be adversely affected and it may not be able to continue to execute its current capital plan to return capital to its shareholders.  In addition to dividends from Synovus Bank, we have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, including the capital markets, but there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.  If our. 35. access to these traditional and alternative sources of liquidity is diminished or only available on unfavorable terms, then our overall liquidity and financial condition will be adversely affected.. We could realize losses if we determine to sell non-performing assets and the proceeds we receive are lower than the carrying value of such assets.. Distressed asset sales have been a component of our strategy to further strengthen the balance sheet, improve asset quality, and enhance earnings. We could realize future losses if the proceeds we receive upon dispositions of non-performing assets are lower than the recorded carrying value of such assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods.  Accordingly, we could realize an increased level of credit costs in any period during which we determine to dispose of an increased level of distressed assets.  Further, although market conditions have improved, if market conditions experience another downturn, this could negatively impact our ability to dispose of distressed assets, and may result in higher credit losses on sales of distressed assets.. If Synovus Bank is unable to grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs.. The total amount that we pay for funding costs is dependent, in part, on Synovus Bank's ability to grow its deposits.  If Synovus Bank is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits to meet liquidity needs, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs to meet these liquidity needs.  Synovus Bank competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits.  If competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, Synovus Bank's funding costs may increase, either because Synovus Bank raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because Synovus Bank loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding.  Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. Synovus Bank's customers could withdraw their deposits in favor of alternative investments, causing Synovus Bank to lose a lower cost source of funding.  Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt and repay maturing debt obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, we and our consolidated subsidiaries had $1.71 billion of long-term debt outstanding.  Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest or to satisfy our obligations in respect of our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund capital expenditures will depend on our future financial and operating performance and our ability to maintain adequate liquidity.  Prevailing economic conditions (including interest rates), and regulatory constraints, including, among other things, on distributions to us from our subsidiaries and required capital levels with respect to our subsidiary bank and financial subsidiaries, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may also affect our ability to meet these needs.  We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or obtain future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, or to fund our other liquidity needs.  We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on maturity, and we may not be able to refinance any of our debt when needed on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments in our business, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity or debt financing or restructure our debt on terms that may not be favorable to us.. We may be unable to pay dividends on our common stock and Series C Preferred Stock.. Holders of our common stock and Series C Preferred Stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments.  Although we have historically paid a quarterly cash dividend to the holders of our common stock and Series C Preferred Stock, we are not legally required to do so.  Further, the Federal Reserve could decide at any time that paying any dividends on our common stock or preferred stock could be an unsafe or unsound banking practice.  The reduction or elimination of dividends paid on our common stock or preferred stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or preferred stock, as applicable.  In addition, if we fail to pay dividends on our Series C Preferred Stock for six quarters, whether or not consecutive, the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled to certain rights to elect two directors to our Board of Directors.. For a discussion of current regulatory limits on our ability to pay dividends, see \"Part 1 - Item 1. Business - Supervision, Regulation, and Other Factors - Dividends\" \"Part I - Item 1A - Risk Factors - We may become subject to supervisory actions and enhanced regulation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating flexibility, financial condition and the value of our common stock and preferred stock\" and \"Part II - Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities - Dividends\" in this Report for further information.. Our current tax position, including the realization of our deferred tax assets in the future, could be subject to potential legislative, administrative or judicial changes or interpretations, which could adversely affect our operating results.. The lower federal corporate income tax rate resulting from Federal Tax Reform caused us to revalue our deferred tax assets, resulting in a reduction of our deferred tax asset balance and a corresponding one-time, non-cash income tax charge of $47.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2017.  This provisional charge is based on our current analysis of the impact of Federal Tax Reform to us, which is uncertain, and we may be required to further revalue our deferred tax assets in the future, which could result in. 36. additional increases to income tax expense. Because Synovus had $165.8 million in net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2017, $70.4 million of which is disallowed when calculating regulatory capital, a further reduction in our deferred tax asset balance and a corresponding increase in our income tax expense could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, uncertainties in the interpretation and application of Federal Tax Reform and further tax reform in the future could materially impact our tax obligations and operating results in a number of other ways. In the absence of guidance on various uncertainties and ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of Federal Tax Reform, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying Federal Tax Reform, but it is possible that the IRS could issue subsequent guidance or take positions that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, local or state authorities may interpret tax laws, including Federal Tax Reform, and regulations differently than us or may reform their own tax laws and regulations, resulting in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions or credits and/or differences in the timing of these items.  The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.  See \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Income Tax Expense\" and \"Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 23 - Income Taxes\" in this Report for further information.. The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters involving us or other financial institutions or counterparties, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, investigations, inquiries or similar matters arising out of our business, including those described in \"Part I - Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" and \"Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 20 - Legal Proceedings\" of this Report.  Synovus cannot predict the outcome of these or any other legal matters.  We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the losses can be reasonably estimated.  We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve.  In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter.  For those legal matters where the amounts associated with the claims are not probable and the costs cannot be reasonably estimated, Synovus estimates a range of reasonably possible losses.   As of December 31, 2017, Synovus' management currently estimates the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses resulting from our outstanding litigation, including, without limitation, the matters described in this Report, is from zero to $8.0 million in excess of the amounts accrued, if any, related to those matters.  This estimated aggregate range is based upon information currently available to us, and the actual losses could prove to be higher.  As there are further developments in these legal matters, we will reassess these matters and the estimated range of reasonably possible losses may change as a result of this assessment. In addition, in the future, we may need to record additional litigation reserves with respect to these matters.  Further, regardless of how these matters proceed, it could divert our management's attention and other resources away from our business.. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation.  Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial and banking sectors are rising.  We may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all.. Our stock price is subject to fluctuations, and the value of your investment may decline.. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations.  The stock market in general, and the market for the stocks of commercial banks and other financial services companies in particular, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies.  These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance, and the value of your investment may decline.. Certain shares of our common stock are entitled to ten votes per share on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders.. Although we only have one class of common stock, certain shares of our common stock are entitled to ten votes per share on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders, including common stock that has been beneficially owned continuously by the same shareholder for a period of forty-eight consecutive months before the record date of any meeting of shareholders at which the share is eligible to be voted.  Therefore, while a holder of common stock may have an economic interest in us that is identical to or even greater than another shareholder, that other shareholder may be entitled to ten times as many votes per share. As a result, some groups of shareholders will be able to approve strategic transactions or increases in authorized capital stock, among other matters submitted to the shareholders, even over the objections of shareholders, who hold equivalent or greater economic stakes in our company.. 37. Our articles of incorporation, our Rights Plan and certain banking laws and regulations may have an anti-takeover effect.. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, our Rights Plan and certain banking laws and regulations, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders.  The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock."
