[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Forward-Looking Statements. This annual report and our other oral or written communications may contain “forward-looking” statements. These statements include our expectations or projections about the future of our industries, business strategies, the markets in which we operate, potential acquisitions, contracts with customers, new business opportunities, controlling or cutting our costs, winning new customers, returning to profitability on a consolidated basis, the expectations for Management’s Strategic Actions, our financial results, our financial condition and our views about developments beyond our control including government spending, domestic or global economic conditions, trends and market forces. These statements are based on management’s views and assumptions at the time originally made, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements, except as may be required by law. There can be no assurance that our expectations, projections or views will come to pass, and you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.. A number of significant risk factors could materially affect our specific business operations and cause our performance to differ materially from any future results projected or implied by our prior statements, including those described below. Many of these risk factors are also identified in connection with the more specific descriptions contained throughout this report.. Customers. We have experienced recent operating losses, and anticipate further operating losses in the near term, as we seek to generate new business revenues to replace the nonrenewal of several large customer contracts.. Our businesses generally will require a higher level of new business revenues in order to operate profitably. We have recently experienced operating losses and may not become profitable if we are unable to execute on management’s plans. With the recent non-renewal of a portion of the Meritor and other, less strategic, product supply agreements, we need to secure additional business with new and existing customers in a timely fashion. While we expect to generate further operating losses in the near term, we are working to increase our revenues with new or existing customers. Unless we can develop and offer new products to existing customers or obtain new customers, at the levels anticipated in both management’s strategic actions and its exit or disposal plan, we may be unable to maintain the critical mass of capital investments or talented employees that are needed to succeed in our chosen markets or to maintain our existing facilities, which could result in additional restructuring or exit costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate the additional revenue targeted in our plans or to succeed in the execution of the cost-cutting initiatives in those plans.. We depend on a few key customers in challenging industries for most of our revenues.. Our five largest customers in 2017 were Detroit Diesel, Northrup Grumman, Sistemas, Tyco and Harris, which in the aggregate accounted for 52% of net revenue. While we have recently reduced the dependence of Sypris Technologies on certain non-strategic customers, an inability to increase our revenues while effectively controlling our costs would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2018 and beyond, we will need to rapidly attract new clients and continue to diversify our customer base, despite the longer lead times typically required for new programs.. The truck components and assemblies industry has experienced consolidation, credit risk, highly cyclical market demand, labor unrest, rising steel costs, bankruptcy and other obstacles. The demand for our energy-related products lines, historically, has risen and fallen with the prices of oil and/or natural gas, as our customers’ capital expenditures budgets tend to be dependent upon energy prices. We depend on the continued growth and financial stability of customers in these industries and our core markets, as well as general economic conditions. Adverse changes affecting these customers, markets or economic conditions could harm our operating results.. The aerospace and defense electronics industry has experienced consolidation, increased competition, disruptive new technologies and uncertain funding levels. The aerospace and defense industry is also pressured by cyclicality, rapid technological change, shortening product life cycles, decreasing margins, and government procurement and certification processes. Our aerospace and defense business faces an aging portfolio of legacy programs which must be replenished with new technologies if we are to successfully maintain or expand our market share. Our failure to address any of these factors could impair our ability to grow and diversify our base of customers in this segment.. 8. There can be no assurance that any of our customers will not default on, delay or dispute payment of, or seek to reject our outstanding invoices in bankruptcy or otherwise. In addition, the existence of these factors may result in fewer customers in our target markets due to consolidation, bankruptcy, competitive or other market reasons, making it more difficult to obtain new clients and diversify our customer base in the near future.. Customer contracts could be less profitable than expected.. We generally bear the risk that our contracts could be unprofitable or less profitable than planned, despite our estimates of revenues and future costs to complete such contracts.. A material portion of our business, historically, has been conducted under multi-year contracts, which generally include fixed prices or periodic price reductions without minimum purchase requirements. Over time, our revenues may not cover any increases in our operating costs which could adversely impact our results. Our financial results are at greater risk when we accept contractual responsibility for raw material or component prices, when we cannot offset price reductions, freight penalties and cost increases with operating efficiencies or other savings, when we must submit contract bid prices before all key design elements are finalized or when we are subjected to other competitive pressures which erode our margins. The profitability of our contracts also can be adversely affected by unexpected start-up costs on new programs, operating inefficiencies, ineffective capital investments, inflationary pressures or inaccurate forecasts of future unit costs.. In light of the recent strength of the U.S. dollar, tightening margins and the strategic reduction of our traditional market share in certain commercial vehicle manufacturing sectors, the Company has recently relocated certain portions of its customer production to its Toluca plant, introducing new costs and operational risks. Rising costs of steel or component parts can cause increases in our inventory and working capital levels. The Company’s management has also implemented various profit recovery and protection plans and evaluated strategic alternatives to optimize asset values in each of the Company’s segments. Our ability to successfully execute on such plans in a timely manner and without customer disruption will be critical to our financial performance.. Unexpected changes in our customers’ demand levels have harmed our operating results in the past and could do so in the future. Many of our customers will not commit to firm production or delivery schedules. Inaccurate forecasting of our customers’ requirements can disrupt the efficient utilization of our manufacturing capacity, inventories or workforce and can cause increases in our inventory and working capital levels. If we receive unanticipated orders or rapid increases in demand, these incremental volumes could be unprofitable due to the higher costs of operating above our optimal capacity. Disagreements over pricing, quality, delivery, capacity, exclusivity or trade credit terms could disrupt order schedules. Orders may also fluctuate due to changing global capacity and demand, new products, changes in market share, reorganizations or bankruptcies, material shortages, labor disputes, freight costs, tariffs or other factors that discourage outsourcing. These forces could increase, decrease, accelerate, delay or cancel our delivery schedules.. Our ability to stabilize employee retention and execute on existing customer orders could put current revenues at risk as we proceed with the execution of our Plans. If we lose anticipated revenues, we might not succeed in redeploying our substantial capital investments and other fixed costs, potentially forcing additional plant closures, impairments of long-lived and other assets or increased losses.. Congressional budgetary constraints or reallocations could reduce our government related sales.. Sypris Electronics serves as a contractor for large aerospace and defense companies such as Northrop Grumman, Lockheed Martin and Harris, typically under federally funded programs, which represented approximately 26% and 18% of net revenue in 2017 and 2016, respectively.. Sypris Electronics was adversely affected by declines in the overall government defense market due to the effects of sequestration in the past, and may be further affected if funding for programs in which we participate, either by selling products directly to U.S. government agencies or as a subcontractor to prime contractors such as Northrup Grumman, Harris, Tyco and Analog Devices Inc., is reduced, delayed or cancelled. Our ability to obtain new contract awards also could be negatively affected.. 9. Tariffs or other trade restrictions on imported steel or other goods could negatively impact us.. Tariffs or other trade restrictions on imported steel or other goods could cause the prices of our products or our customers’ products to increase which could reduce demand for such products and adversely impact our revenues and financial results.   If other countries were to impose retaliatory tariffs or trade restrictions, this could cause similar negative effects on our business model, especially our efforts to utilize production capacity in the Toluca plant.. For significant portions of our business, we purchase raw materials and component parts which have been designated or specified by our customers, at prices negotiated by our customers.  While these customers generally have agreed to reimburse us for the cost of such materials, including tariffs, this willingness to reimburse these costs could change in the future, and our risks will continue to include the timely communication and successful collection of any such reimbursements.  In any event, for a growing part of our business, we arrange our own suppliers and we could be impacted by the risks of any landed price increases, trade restrictions or production delays.  Increases in the costs of steel or other supplies could also increase our working capital requirements, scrap expenses and borrowing costs.. In general, there can be no assurance that any such tariffs or trade restrictions will not reduce demand, slow production, delay shipments to our customers or increase our costs in the future, any of which could adversely affect our financial results.. Suppliers. Interruptions in the supply of key components could disrupt production.. Some of our products require one or more components that are available from a limited number of providers or from sole-source providers. In the past, some of the materials we use, including steel, certain forgings or castings, capacitors and memory and logic devices, have been subject to industry-wide shortages or capacity allocations. As a result, suppliers have been forced to allocate available quantities among their customers, and we have not been able to obtain all of the materials desired. Some of our suppliers have struggled to implement reliable quality control systems which can negatively impact our operating efficiency and financial results. In downward business cycles, the tightening of credit markets has threatened the financial viability of an increasing number of suppliers of key components and raw materials and forced unanticipated shutdowns. Our inability to reliably obtain these or any other materials when and as needed could slow production or assembly, delay shipments to our customers, impair the recovery of our fixed costs and increase the costs of recovering to customers’ schedules, including overtime, expedited freight, equipment maintenance, operating inefficiencies, higher working capital and the obsolescence risks associated with larger buffer inventories. Each of these factors could adversely affect operating results.. Shortages or increased costs of utilities could harm our business and our customers.. We and our customers depend on a constant supply of electricity and natural gas from utility providers for the operation of our respective businesses and facilities. In the past, we have experienced power outages which reduced our ability to deliver products and meet our customers’ demand for those products. If we or our customers experience future interruptions in service from these providers, our production and/or delivery of products could be negatively affected. Additionally, due to the heavy consumption of energy in our production process and the businesses of our customers, if the cost of energy significantly increases, our results of operations and those of certain customers could be negatively impacted.. Execution. Contract terminations or delays could harm our business.. We often provide products under contracts that contain detailed specifications, quality standards and other terms. If we are unable to perform in accordance with such terms, our customers might seek to terminate such contracts, demand price concessions or other financial consideration or downgrade our performance ratings or eligibility for new business. Moreover, many of our contracts are subject to termination for convenience or upon default. These provisions could provide only limited recoveries of certain incurred costs or profits on completed work and could impose liability for our customers’ costs in procuring undelivered items from another source. If any of our significant contracts were to be repudiated, terminated or not renewed, we could lose substantial revenues, and our operating results as well as prospects for future business opportunities could be adversely affected.. 10. We are subject to various audits, reviews and investigations, including private party “whistleblower” lawsuits, relating to our compliance with federal and state laws. Should our business be charged with wrongdoing, or determined not to be a “presently responsible contractor,” we could be temporarily suspended or debarred from receiving new government contracts or government-approved subcontracts.. We must operate more efficiently due to lower revenues.. If we are unable to improve the cost, efficiency and yield of our operations, and if we are not able to control costs, our financial results could suffer and we could be forced to sell additional assets, take on additional debt at higher costs or take other measures to restructure our operations or capital structure. A number of major obstacles could include:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties experienced in connection with the closure and disposal of our Broadway Plant assets, and the potential negative impact that may have on our business prospects;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties arising from our present financial condition, including difficulties in maintaining customer and supplier relationships and difficulties acquiring new business due to lingering concerns until we have returned to consistent profitability;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in executing management’s various cost reduction and profit recovery and protection plans;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tefforts to increase our manufacturing capacity and launch new programs; efforts to migrate, restructure or move business operations from one location to another;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe breakdown of critical machinery or equipment;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinflationary pressures;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased borrowing due to declines in sales;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in anticipated product mix and the associated variances in our profit margins;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe need to identify and eliminate our root causes of scrap;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to achieve expected annual savings or other synergies from past and future business combinations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinventory risks due to forecasting errors, shifts in market demand, the unanticipated loss of future business, or the obsolescence and/or price erosion of raw materials or component parts on hand;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany inability to successfully manage growth, contraction or competitive pressures in our primary markets.. Our management or systems could be inadequate to support our existing or future operations, especially as we downsize our operating staff to reduce expenses while we work to increase revenues. New customers or new contracts, particularly with new product offerings, could require us to invest in additional equipment or other capital expenditures which exceed our budgeted needs. We may have limited experience or expertise in installing or operating such equipment, which could negatively impact our ability to deliver products on time or with acceptable costs. In addition, a material portion of our manufacturing equipment requires significant maintenance to operate effectively, and we may experience maintenance and repair issues. Our efforts to restructure, relocate and consolidate a significant number of the operations, especially in our truck component manufacturing plants, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risk of technical failures, nonconformance with customer specifications, an inability to deliver next generation products or other quality concerns could materially impair our operating results.. 11. Our growth strategies could be ineffective due to the risks associated with further acquisitions.. Our growth strategy has included acquiring complementary businesses. We could fail to identify, obtain financing or complete suitable acquisitions on acceptable terms and prices. Acquisition efforts entail a number of risks, including: diversion of management’s attention; difficulties in integrating systems, operations and cultures; potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies; lack of experience operating in the geographic market of the acquired business; an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements; risks of entering into markets or producing products where we have limited or no experience; difficulties in integrating purchased technologies and products with our technologies and products; our ability to improve productivity and implement cost reductions; our ability to secure collective bargaining agreements with employees; and exposure to unanticipated liabilities.. Our discovery of, or failure to discover, material issues during due diligence investigations of acquisition targets, either before closing with regard to potential risks of the acquired operations, or after closing with regard to the timely discovery of breaches of representations or warranties, or of certain indemnified environmental conditions, could seriously harm our business.. Cyber security risks could negatively affect operations and result in increased costs.. Sypris Electronics, as a U.S. defense contractor, and our Company overall, face cyber security threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures and natural disasters.. We routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers and subcontractors. Prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.. Although we work cooperatively with our customers and our suppliers, subcontractors, and other partners to seek to minimize the impacts of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities, and those safeguards might not be effective.. The costs related to cyber security or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the products we provide to customers, loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts, early obsolescence of our products, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price.. Competition. Increasing competition could limit or reduce our market share.. As an outsourced manufacturer, we operate in highly competitive environments that often include our customers’ internal capabilities. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets include the availability of manufacturing capacity, increasingly unfavorable currency exchange rates (especially in low-cost countries), technological strength, speed and flexibility in responding to design or schedule changes, price, quality, delivery, cost management and financial strength. Our earnings could decline if our competitors or customers can provide comparable speed and quality at a lower cost, or if we fail to adequately invest in the range and quality of products our customers require.. Many of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and organizational resources, geographic breadth and range of products, customer bases and brand recognition than we do. As a result, our competitors may respond more quickly to technological changes or customer needs, consume lower fixed and variable unit costs, negotiate reduced component prices, and obtain better terms for financing growth. If we fail to compete in any of these areas, we may lose market share and our business could be seriously harmed. There can be no assurance that we will not experience increased competition or that we will be able to maintain our profitability if our competitive environment changes.. 12. Our technologies could become obsolete, reducing our revenues and profitability.. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology and continuing process development. The future of our business will depend in large part upon the continuing relevance of our technological capabilities. We could fail to make required capital investments, develop or successfully market products that meet changing customer needs and anticipate or respond to technological changes in a cost-effective and timely manner. Our inability to successfully launch or sustain new or next generation programs or product features, especially in accordance with budgets or committed delivery schedules, could materially adversely affect our financial results. We could encounter competition from new or developing technologies that render our technologies and equipment less profitable or obsolete in our chosen markets and our operating results may suffer. In particular, the Company is currently developing new products and pursuing new programs in an attempt to increase Sypris Electronics’ revenue stream. However, commercializing the new products and programs is costly and has been slower than anticipated. The launch of any new products or programs within Sypris Electronics may not be successful.. Access to Capital. We could fail to fully implement our growth plans.. As the Company seeks to expand its revenues and strategically diversify its customer base, we could fail to adequately overcome significant obstacles such as slowing markets, the loss of key employees, unexpected increases in costs, or new competitors or technologies in our key markets, among other risks. The failure to fully implement our growth plans could materially adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition.. Our ability to finance expansion or new business opportunities may be limited.. Our future liquidity and capital requirements depend on numerous factors other than bank borrowings or debt financing, including the pace at which we can effectively cut costs, increase revenues or successfully launch new products. One method we have historically used to increase our revenues and obtain multi-year supply agreements is to buy a customer’s non-core manufacturing assets, or to acquire alternative, but equivalent, production capabilities and to produce products for such customers under a multi-year contract. We have also pursued strategies that rely on research and development efforts to develop and commercialize our new products. We may not have the financial resources or be able to raise funds necessary to pursue these strategies under our future debt agreements which could further limit our ability to replace the loss of revenues.. Labor Relations. We must attract and retain qualified employees while successfully managing related costs.. Our future success in a changing business environment, including during rapid changes in the size, complexity or skills required of our workforce, as we experienced in 2017 and 2016, will depend to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive, managerial and technical employees. The loss of key employees, especially in a recovering economic environment, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future success will also require an ability to attract and retain qualified employees, especially those with engineering or production expertise in our core business lines.. Changes in our labor costs such as salaries, wages and benefits, or the cost of providing pension and other employee benefits, changes in health care costs, investment returns on plan assets and discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities or other requirements to accelerate the level of our pension fund contributions to reduce or eliminate underfunded liabilities, could lead to increased costs or disruptions of operations in any of our business units.. 13. Disputes with labor unions could disrupt our business plans.. As of December 31, 2017, we had collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 349 employees (all of which were in Sypris Technologies), or 57% of our total employees. Excluding certain Mexico employees covered under an annually ratified agreement, there are no collective bargaining agreements expiring within the next 12 months. Certain Mexico employees are covered by an annually ratified collective bargaining agreement. These employees in Mexico represented approximately 51% of the Company’s workforce, or 308 employees at December 31, 2017. Our ability to maintain our workforce depends on our ability to attract and retain new and existing customers. We could experience a work stoppage or other disputes which could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers and could harm our operating results.. Regulatory. Environmental, health and safety risks could expose us to potential liability.. We are subject to a variety of environmental regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals and substances used in our operations. If we fail to comply with present or future regulations, we could be forced to alter, suspend or discontinue our manufacturing processes and pay substantial fines or penalties.. Groundwater and other contamination has occurred at certain of our current and former facilities during the operation of those facilities by their former owners, and this contamination may occur at future facilities we operate or acquire. There is no assurance that environmental indemnification agreements we have secured from the former owners of certain of these properties will be adequate to protect us from liability.. Our business is also subject to potential liabilities with respect to health and safety matters. We are required to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the health and safety of our workforce, and we could be held liable for damages arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other dangerous working conditions. Health and safety laws and regulations are complex and change frequently. As a result, our future costs to comply with such laws or the liabilities incurred in the event of any violations may increase significantly.. Adverse regulatory developments or litigation could harm our business.. Our businesses operate in heavily regulated environments. We must successfully manage the risk of changes in or adverse actions under applicable law or in our regulatory authorizations, licenses and permits, governmental security clearances or other legal rights to operate our businesses, to manage our work force or to import and export goods and services as needed. Our business activities expose us to the risks of litigation with respect to our customers, suppliers, creditors, stockholders or from product liability, environmental or asbestos-related matters. We also face the risk of other adverse regulatory actions, compliance costs or governmental sanctions, as well as the costs and risks related to our ongoing efforts to design and implement effective internal controls.. Other Risks. We face other factors which could seriously disrupt our operations.. Many other risk factors beyond our control could seriously disrupt our operations, including: risks relating to war, future terrorist activities, computer hacking or other cyber attacks, or political uncertainties; risks relating to natural disasters or other casualties which could shut down our domestic or foreign facilities, disrupt transportation of products or supplies, increase the costs under our self-insurance program or change the timing and availability of funding in our aerospace and defense electronics markets; risks inherent in operating abroad, including foreign currency exchange rates, adverse regulatory developments, and miscommunications or errors due to inaccurate foreign language translations or currency exchange rates; or our failure to anticipate or to adequately insure against other risks and uncertainties present in our businesses including unknown or unidentified risks."                        
