[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. There are a number of factors and variables described below that may affect our future results of operations and financial condition. Other factors of which we are currently not aware or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our results of operations and financial position.. Risks Related to the Economy and Our Industries. • General economic conditions, such as decreased consumer confidence and spending could result in our failure to achieve our historical sales growth rates and profit levels.. Both we and our customers are subject to global political, economic and market conditions, including trade and tariff uncertainties, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, the impact of natural disasters, military action and the threat of terrorism.  Our consolidated results of operations are directly affected by economic conditions in North America and Europe.  We may experience a decline in sales as a result of poor economic conditions and the lack of visibility relating to future orders, (as well as due to senior management turnover, loss of key employees, disruption due to internal technology platform transitions or inefficient or delayed implementation of strategic initiatives).  Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volumes with existing customers, our ability to limit price reductions and maintain our margins, our ability to attract new customers and the financial condition of our customers.  A decline in the economy that adversely affects our customers, causing them to limit or defer their spending or that hampers their ability to pay for products would likely adversely affect our sales, prices and profitability as well. We cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be able to maintain or improve upon historical sales volumes with existing customers, or whether we will be able to attract new customers.. In response to economic and market conditions, from time to time we have undertaken initiatives to reduce our cost structure where appropriate. These initiatives, as well as any future workforce and facilities reductions, may not be sufficient to meet current and future changes in economic and market conditions and allow us to continue to achieve the growth rates and re-attain the levels of profitability we experienced prior to the recent market downturns.  In addition, costs actually incurred in connection with our restructuring actions may be higher than our estimates of such costs and/or may not lead to the anticipated cost savings.. • The markets for our products and services are extremely competitive and if we are unable to successfully respond to our competitors' strategies our sales and gross margins will be adversely affected.. We may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors.  The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive and subject to constant technological change.  Competitive factors include price, availability, service and support and a market with relatively low barriers to entry. Many competitors procure and ship the products we sell and many competitors are selling these products as a commodity at the lowest prices they can and often involving reduced or free freight; further they do not provide any post sale services or support. At the same time, many of our competitors couple the sale of products with various value added services and business solutions in an effort to enhance sales and margins and mitigate the pressure of being only a commodities distributor. Accordingly, we must compete with both low priced/no service offered competitors, as well as higher priced/value added services competitors, and must do so on a selective, customer and product focused basis. We believe the services and support we offer for certain of our products are critical value added services and a competitive differentiator for the Company in the markets and for the products where we choose to offer such service. We believe the services and support we offer enable us to build relationships with our customers that result in repeat purchases, customer loyalty and market penetration. In some of our markets, our services and solutions offerings are in an early form and we will need to continue to invest in and enhance our offerings. If at any time our ability to service and support our customers is curtailed or we do not invest effectively in developing these services, there is a risk that we may suffer a loss of reputation, and customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and profits.. Our e-commerce business faces pressure from competing with large, expanding e-commerce retailers.   Many of our competitors are larger companies with greater financial, marketing, services and product development resources than ours.  The market for the sale of industrial products in North America is highly fragmented and is characterized by multiple distribution channels such as small dealerships, direct mail distribution, internet-based resellers, large warehouse stores. 10. and retail outlets.  We face competition from large diversified MRO distributors such as Grainger Inc., MSC Industrial Direct Inc., Fastenal Inc., and other large retailers, including e-commerce retailers such as Amazon. We also face competition from manufacturers' own sales representatives, who sell industrial equipment directly to customers, and from regional or local distributors. In addition, new competitors may enter our markets.  This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to competitors' pricing strategies, technological advances and other initiatives, resulting in our inability to increase our revenues or maintain our gross margins in the future.. In most cases our products compete directly with those offered by other manufacturers and distributors.  If any of our competitors were to develop products or services that are more cost-effective or technically superior, demand for our product offerings could decrease.. Our gross margins are also dependent on the mix of products we sell, decisions to drop ship rather than stock products in our distribution centers, decisions to offer private label alternatives to branded offerings, price changes by manufacturers, and pricing actions by competitors, and we could be adversely affected by a continuation of our customers' shift to lower-priced products.. • Sales tax laws may be interpreted in a manner that could result in ecommerce and direct mail retailers to being held to have been required to collect sales taxes in states where we believe the then current laws did not require us to do so.  This could result in us having substantial tax liabilities for past sales.. Our United States subsidiaries historically collected and remitted sales tax in states in which the subsidiaries have physical presence or in which we believed sufficient nexus existed which obligated us to collect sales tax. During the first quarter of 2018, the Company registered its subsidiaries in the U.S. that generate taxable sales for sales tax collection in all states, except Alaska. States may, from time to time in the future, claim that we had state-related activities constituting physical nexus to have required such collection, or that our sale of goods to customers in their state, or directly to the state and its political subdivisions, created nexus for sales tax purposes.  Such efforts by states have increased recently, as states seek to raise revenues without increasing the income tax burden on residents. We relied on United States Supreme Court decisions which hold that, without Congressional authority, a state may not enforce a sales tax collection obligation on a company that has no physical presence in the state and whose only contacts with the state are through the use of interstate commerce such as the mailing of catalogs into the state and the delivery of goods by mail or common carrier.  We cannot predict whether the nature or level of contacts we had with a particular state in the past will be deemed enough to have required us to collect sales tax in that state.  A successful assertion by one or more states that we should have collected sales tax on the sale of merchandise in such state could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales.. See Legal Proceedings.. • Events such as acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, data security breaches, changes in law, or large losses could adversely affect our insurance coverage and insurance expense, resulting in an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.. We insure for certain property and casualty risks consisting primarily of physical loss to property, business interruptions resulting from property losses, worker's compensation, comprehensive general liability, and auto liability.  Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic property and casualty exposures as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract.  Although we believe that our insurance coverage is reasonable, significant events such as acts of war and terrorism, economic conditions, data security breaches, judicial decisions, legislation, natural disasters and large losses could materially affect our insurance obligations and future expense.. • Adverse weather events or natural disasters could negatively affect or disrupt our operations.  We may be affected by global climate changes or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential change.. Certain areas in which we operate are susceptible to severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, and floods. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of core business products from our or third party distribution centers is critical to our business strategy. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports may affect our ability to both maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by these events will affect our operations or the economies in regions where we operate. These adverse events could result in disruption of our operations, our purchasing or distribution capabilities, interruption of our business that exceeds our insurance coverage, our inability to collect from customers and increased operating costs. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of these events.. 11. • Environmental Matters. Under various national, state and local environmental laws and regulations in North America, Europe and Asia, a current or previous owner or operator (including the lessee) of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substance at such real property. Such laws and regulation often impose liability without regard to fault. We lease most of our facilities. In connection with such leases, we could be held liable for the costs of removal or remedial actions with respect to hazardous substances. Although we have not been notified of, and nor otherwise aware of, any material real property environmental liability, claim or non-compliance, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur remediation or other costs in connection with real property environmental matters in the future.. Risks Related to Our Company. • We rely to a great extent on our information and telecommunications systems, and significant system failures or outages, or our failure to properly evaluate, upgrade or replace our systems, or the failure of our security/safety measures to protect our systems and websites, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We rely on a variety of information and telecommunications systems including internally developed software, third party purchased software and third party cloud based software in order to manage our business, including our customer, vendor, employee, facilities, finance, management and corporate operations.  Our success is dependent in large part on the accuracy and proper use of our information systems, including our telecommunications systems, which are utilized in all aspects of our business.  To manage our growth, we need to continually evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy of our existing systems and procedures to ensure they are keeping pace with changes in our business.  These systems, whether internally developed, purchased or cloud based may need to be modified, upgraded or replaced from time to time. System modifications, upgrades or replacements involve costs as well as the risk of implementation delays and not operating as intended. We rely on third parties such as telecommunication carriers, internet service providers and our own employees to provide the technology services and expertise on which we depend. There are risks that third parties may incur outages or circumstances where they cannot provide the services we require as intended or that our employees do not have the expertise to remediate system outages or technical problems that may arise. We have experienced some delays and operational problems in implementing new IT systems in the past. We anticipate that we will regularly need to make capital expenditures to upgrade and modify our management information systems, including software and hardware, as we grow and the needs of our business change. We have disaster recovery systems and system backups are routinely done for certain critical systems, but not for every system.  The occurrence of a significant system failure, electrical or telecommunications outages or our failure to ensure our IT employees are properly trained and technically proficient, or that our systems are adequate, effective and beneficial to our business, or our failure to expand or successfully implement new systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. •   Data and security breaches, and other disruptions in our information technology systems, could compromise confidential or private information and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer.. Our operations are dependent upon information technology that encompasses all of our major business functions. We use our information systems to, among other things, monitor our supply chain, make purchasing decisions, manage and replenish inventories, coordinate our sales and marketing activities, fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis and to monitor and record our financial transactions and results of operations. These systems also process, transmit and store sensitive electronic data, including employee personal information, supplier and customer records, allow vendors and customers to register on our portals and websites, as applicable, or otherwise allow third parties to communicate or interact with us. In addition, we depend on IT systems of third parties, to, among other things, market and distribute products, to operate our websites, host and manage our services, store data, and process transactions. We may share information with these third parties that participate in certain aspects of our business, and we certify our major suppliers and any outsourced services through accepted security certification standards. However, there is always a risk that the confidentiality of data held or accessed by them may be compromised.. In processing our sales orders, we often collect personal information and transmit credit card information of our customers. If there was a security breach resulting in unauthorized access to or use of such information, we could be subject to claims for identity theft, unauthorized purchases and claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices or other related claims.  While the Company believes it conforms to appropriate Payment Card Industry (\"PCI\") security standards, any breach involving the loss of credit card information may lead to PCI related fines in the millions of dollars.  In the event of a severe breach, credit card providers may prevent our accepting of credit cards.. 12. We measure our data security effectiveness through industry accepted methods and remediate significant findings. We maintain and routinely test backup systems and disaster recovery, along with external network security penetration testing by an independent third party as part of our business continuity preparedness. We also have processes in place to prevent disruptions resulting from the implementation of new software and systems of the latest technology. We have implemented solutions, processes, and procedures to help mitigate the risk of cyber attacks, such as conducting annual vulnerability testing, and are in the process of engaging consultants to assist us in implementing stronger security measures, identifying remediation initiatives and establishing emergency response plans, but there can be no assurance these efforts will successfully deter future cyber attacks. Our Board of Directors is responsible for oversight of the activities of our IT department (which reports to our Chief Executive Officer), and receives a quarterly presentation from our Chief Information Officer that covers, among other things, data security and cyber liability matters.. Although our IT systems are protected through various network security measures, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers with which we do business, may nevertheless be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber attacks (any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources) vandalism, power outages, natural disasters, computer system failures, telecommunication or network failures, computer viruses, malware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. From time to time. we have experienced efforts by unknown persons, including \"bots\", to access or breach our information systems, and these efforts can be expected to continue in the future. While we have successfully defended against such efforts in the past, there can be no assurance we will be able to protect sensitive data and/or the integrity of the Company's information systems and to defend against such efforts in the future.. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of our confidential information or confidential information of our customers, employees, or suppliers, whether by us or by our third-party service providers, could disrupt our business, expose us to risks of litigation (such as customer or third party claims that their data has been compromised) and liability, result in a loss of assets or cause reputational damage, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Any substantial disruption of our systems could impair our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, manage customer billings and collections, prepare and present accurate financial statements and related information, and otherwise materially adversely affect our ability to manage our business.. We maintain cyber liability risk insurance, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems, or to cover the cause of the future specific situation/loss at hand. In addition, as privacy and information security laws and standards evolve, we may need to incur significant additional investment in technology and other processes to meet new legal requirements.. • We have exited our SARL Businesses in 2017 and NATG business in 2015 and could incur costs in excess of our estimated exit expenses.. The Company has substantially completed most of the NATG wind-down activities, although activities related to collecting remaining accounts receivable, subleasing remaining retail store and warehouse spaces and settling accounts payable and other contingent liabilities continue.  The Company expects that additional NATG wind-down costs incurred during 2018 or later will aggregate between $1 and $5 million, which is expected to be presented in discontinued operations.. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to timely exit its existing lease commitments at currently recorded cost levels. Failure to achieve these expectations will result in increased cash exit costs for the Company.. • We rely on third party suppliers for most of our products and services. The loss or interruption of these relationships could impact our sales volumes, the levels of inventory we must carry, and/or result in sales delays and/or higher inventory costs from new suppliers.. In France we purchase a substantial portion of our products from major distributors and directly from large manufacturers who may deliver those products directly to our customers (within IPG, many of our suppliers are smaller and more fragmented, but such delivery relationships are still often used). These delivery relationships enable us to make available to our customers a wide selection of products without having to maintain large amounts of inventory.  The termination or interruption of our relationships with any of these suppliers could materially adversely affect our business.. 13. We purchase a number of our products from vendors outside of the United States.  Difficulties encountered by one or several of these suppliers could halt or disrupt production and delay completion or cause the cancellation of our orders. Delays or interruptions in the transportation network could result in loss or delay of timely receipt of product required to fulfill customer orders.  Our ability to find qualified vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the U.S. Political or financial instability, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, trade restrictions, work stoppages, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, civil unrest, outbreaks of pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could materially adversely affect our revenue and gross profit.. Many product suppliers provide us with co-operative advertising support in exchange for featuring their products in our catalogs and on our internet sites. Certain suppliers provide us with other incentives such as rebates, reimbursements, payment discounts, price protection and other similar arrangements. These incentives are offset against cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses, as applicable. The level of co-operative advertising support and other incentives received from suppliers has declined and may decline further in the future, increasing our cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses and have an adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows.. • Goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired resulting in a charge to earnings.. The Company has made acquisitions in the past of other businesses and these acquisitions resulted in the recording of significant intangible assets and/or goodwill. We are required to test goodwill and intangible assets annually to determine if the carrying values of these assets are impaired or on a more frequent basis if indicators of impairment exist. If any of our goodwill or intangible assets are determined to be impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the period during which the impairment is discovered.  In the fourth quarter of 2016 within the Company's ETG discontinued  operations, an impairment charge related to goodwill of approximately $0.3 million was recorded and within IPG segment, an impairment charge related to goodwill and intangible assets of $0.1 million was recorded.  Although the carrying amounts of intangible assets and goodwill are relatively small as of December 31, 2017, to the extent the Company makes acquisitions in the future there could again be material amounts of such assets recorded and subject to future impairment testing.. • Our substantial international operations are subject to risks such as fluctuations in currency rates (which can adversely impact foreign revenues and profits when translated to US Dollars), foreign regulatory requirements, political uncertainty and the management of our growing international operations.. We operate internationally and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally, such as risks related to the differing legal, political and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions.  Risks inherent to operating internationally include:. •Changes in a country's economic or political conditions. •Changes in foreign currency exchange rates. •Difficulties with staffing and managing international operations. •Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. •Changes in transportation and shipping costs. •Enforcement of intellectual property rights. •Tariff and trade uncertainties. The functional currencies of our businesses outside of the U.S. are the local currencies. Changes in exchange rates between these foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar will affect the recorded levels of our assets, liabilities, net sales, cost of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange gains or losses. The primary currencies to which we have exposure are the European Union Euro, Canadian Dollar and the India Rupee. Exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. Dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future.  Our operating results and profitability may be affected by any volatility in currency exchange rates and our ability to manage effectively our currency transaction and translation risks. For example, we currently have operations located in countries outside the United States, and non-U.S. sales accounted for approximately 40.0% of our net sales from continuing operations during 2017.  To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars.. 14. • We are exposed to various inventory risks, such as being unable to profitably resell excess or obsolete inventory and/or the loss of product return rights and price protection from our vendors; such events could lower our gross margins or result in inventory write-downs that would reduce reported future earnings.. Our inventory is subject to risk due to changes in market demand for particular products. If we fail to manage our inventory of older products we may have excess or obsolete inventory.  We may have limited rights to return purchases to certain suppliers and we may not be able to obtain price protection on these items.  The elimination of purchase return privileges and lack of availability of price protection could lower our gross margin or result in inventory write-downs.. We also take advantage of attractive product pricing by making opportunistic bulk inventory purchases; any resulting excess and/or obsolete inventory that we are not able to re-sell could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Any inability to make such bulk inventory purchases may significantly impact our sales and profitability.. • Our ETG employees are represented by unions or workers' councils or are employed subject to local laws that are less favorable to employers than the laws of the U.S.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 500 employees located in Europe and Asia. We have workers' councils representing the employees of our France operations. These France employees are subject to employment laws that provide greater bargaining or other rights to employees than the laws of the U.S. Such employment rights require us to work collaboratively with the legal representatives of the employees to effect any changes to labor arrangements. For example, the workers' council in France must approve certain changes in conditions of employment, including salaries and benefits and staff changes, and may impede efforts to restructure our workforce. Although we believe that we have a good working relationship with our employees, a strike, work stoppage or slowdown by our employees or significant dispute with our employees could result in a significant disruption of our operations or higher ongoing labor costs.. • We may be unable to reduce prices in reaction to competitive pressures, or implement cost reductions or new product line expansion to address gross profit and operating margin pressures; failure to mitigate these pressures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. The markets in which we participate are highly price competitive and gross profit margins are narrow and variable.  The Company's ability to further reduce prices in reaction to competitive pressure is limited.  Additionally, gross margins and operating margins are affected by changes in factors such as vendor pricing, vendor rebate and/or price protection programs, product return rights, and product mix.  Pricing pressure is prevalent in the markets we serve and we expect this to continue.  We may not be able to mitigate these pricing pressures and resultant declines in sales and gross profit margin with cost reductions in other areas or expansion into new product lines.  If we are unable to proportionately mitigate these conditions our operating results and financial condition may suffer.. • Sales to individual customers expose us to credit card fraud, which impacts our operations.  If we fail to adequately protect ourselves from credit card fraud, our operations could be adversely impacted.. Failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could increase our expenses.  Sales to individual consumers and small businesses, which are more likely to be paid for using a credit card, increases our exposure to fraud.  We employ technology solutions to help us detect the fraudulent use of credit card information.  However, if we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, we may suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data, which could adversely affect our business.. • Our business is dependent on certain key personnel.. Our business depends largely on the efforts and abilities of certain key senior management.  The loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. • We are subject to litigation risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business.. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. These include patent, trademark or other intellectual property matters, employment law matters, states sales tax claims on internet/ecommerce transactions, product liability, commercial disputes, consumer sales practices, or other matters.. 15. In addition, as a public company we could from time to time face claims relating to corporate or securities law matters.  The defense and/or outcome of such lawsuits or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business. See \"Legal Proceedings\".. • Our profitability can be adversely affected by changes in our income tax exposure due to changes in tax rates or laws, changes in our effective tax rate due to changes in the mix of earnings among different countries, restrictions on utilization of tax benefits and changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities.. Changes in our income tax expense due to changes in the mix of U.S. and non-U.S. revenues and profitability, changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.  We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate has been in the past and could be in the future adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, restrictions on utilization of tax benefits, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or by material audit assessments.  As a result of the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate, the Company revalued its net deferred tax assets in the U.S. at December 31, 2017 and recorded tax expense of approximately $10.3 million. On December 31, 2017 the French Parliament adopted the Finance Law for 2018. Under this law, French corporate income tax rates are reduced from 33.33% to 25% over a five year period. As a result of the scheduled reductions in the French corporate income tax rate, the Company revalued its French net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2017 and recorded tax expense of approximately $0.5 million.  At December 31, 2017 the Company has approximately $26.1 million of net deferred tax assets.. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in those jurisdictions. In the case of where several years of losses occur in a jurisdiction, there is a risk that the Company would need to reserve its deferred tax assets which would likely result in a material tax expense being recorded in the period that such reserve is established. Similarly, in the case where a reserve against deferred tax assets has previously been established, successive years of profitability would require the reversal of deferred tax asset reserves which would likely result in a material tax benefit in the period that the reserve is deemed to be no longer necessary. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audit in our various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability.. The current U.S. Administration has indicated an intent to reform current international trade agreements. A significant objective of the reforms under consideration is to discourage the importation of goods manufactured outside the U.S. and encourage the export of goods manufactured in the U.S., commonly referred to as a border adjustment tax.  Within IPG a significant portion of the products we sell are manufactured outside of the U.S., imported to the U.S. and sold in North America. The impact of a border adjustment tax could be material to our tax expense and profitability. The Company may not be able to fully offset any such tax increase through product price increases as increases in product prices in a competitive market would likely decrease demand for the Company's products. It is not possible to measure the potential impact of the proposed U.S. trade reforms on the Company's tax expense at this time. However, the implementation of a significant border adjustment or import tax could have a material adverse impact on the Company's profitability.. • Changes in accounting standards or practices, as well as new accounting pronouncements or interpretations, may require us to account for and report our financial results in a different manner in the future, which may be less favorable than the manner used historically.. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results of operations.  New accounting pronouncements and interpretations of existing accounting rules and practices have occurred and may occur in the future.  Changes to existing rules may adversely affect our reported financial results.. • Concentration of Ownership and Control Limits Stockholders Ability to Influence Corporate Actions. Richard Leeds, Robert Leeds, and Bruce Leeds (each are brothers and directors and executive officers of the Company), together with trusts for the benefit of certain members of their respective families and other entities controlled by them, control approximately 68.0% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. Due to such holdings, the Leeds brothers together with these trusts and entities are able to determine the outcome of virtually all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of directors, the appointment of management, amendment of our articles of incorporation, significant corporate transactions (such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets), the payments of dividends on our common stock and the entering into of extraordinary transactions.  Further, as a \"controlled company\" under NYSE rules, the Company has elected to opt-out of certain New York Stock Exchange listing standards that, among other things, require listed companies to have a majority of independent directors on their board; the Company. 16. does however currently have an independent Audit, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees.. • Risk of Thin Trading and Volatility of our Common Stock Could Impact Stockholder Value. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE and is thinly traded. Volatility of thinly traded stocks is typically higher than the volatility of more liquid stocks with higher trading volumes. The trading of relatively small quantities of shares of common stock by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. This may result in volatility in our stock price and could exacerbate the other volatility-inducing factors described below. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of being thinly traded."
