[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section of this report titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows and future prospects and, if so, our future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. If any of such events were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Although we have discussed all known material risks, the risks described below are not the only ones that we may face, and additional risks or uncertainties not known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and future prospects.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. The healthcare industry in the United States is undergoing significant structural change and is rapidly evolving, and the market for technology-enabled healthcare products and services is in its early stages, which makes it difficult to forecast demand for our technology-enabled products and services. If we are not successful in promoting the benefits of our products and services, our growth may be limited.. The healthcare industry in the United States is undergoing significant structural change and is rapidly evolving. We believe demand for our products and services has been driven in large part by price pressure in traditional fee-for-service healthcare, a regulatory environment that is incentivizing value-based care models, the movement toward patient-centricity and personalized healthcare and advances in technology. Widespread acceptance of the value-based care model is critical to our future growth and success. A reduction in the growth of value-based care or patient-centric models could reduce the demand for our products and services and result in a lower revenue growth rate or decreased revenue.. 22. Table of Contents. The market for technology-enabled healthcare products and services is in the early stages and it is uncertain whether it will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market adoption. Our future financial performance will depend in part on growth in this market and on our ability to adapt to emerging demands of our clients. It is difficult to predict the future growth rate and size of our target market.. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of healthcare organizations to increase their use of our technology and our ability to demonstrate the value of our technology to our existing clients and potential clients. If healthcare organizations do not recognize or acknowledge the benefits of our products and services or if we are unable to reduce healthcare costs or drive positive health outcomes, then the market for our products and services might not develop at all, or it might develop more slowly than we expect.. If we are unable to offer innovative products and services or our products and services fail to keep pace with our clients' needs, our clients may terminate or fail to renew their agreements with us and our revenue and results of operations may suffer.. Our success depends on providing innovative, high-quality products and services that healthcare providers and payors use to improve clinical, financial and operational performance. If we cannot adapt to rapidly evolving industry standards, technology and increasingly sophisticated and varied client needs, our existing technology could become undesirable, obsolete or harm our reputation. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest significant resources in our personnel and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that existing clients and potential new clients will want. We are continually involved in a number of projects to develop new products and services, including the further refinement of our proprietary MRM Matrix. If our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our existing clients or potential new clients, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, are not effectively brought to market or significantly increase our operating costs, we may lose existing clients or be unable to obtain new clients and our results of operations may suffer.. Our limited operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. We commenced active operations in 2011 and our operations to date have included organizing and staffing our company, business planning, raising capital and developing and marketing our product and services. As an early stage business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors.. We have incurred significant net losses and we may not be able to generate net income in the future.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $20.6 million. Substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development program, acquisitions and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. Our ability to generate net income is dependent upon, among other things, the acceptance of our products and services by, and the strength of, our existing and potential clients.. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. We have expanded our operations significantly since our inception. For example, we grew from 29 employees on January 1, 2011, the beginning of our first year of active operations, to 536 employees as of December 31, 2017, and our revenue increased from $94.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 to $134.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. If we do not effectively manage our growth as we continue to expand, the quality of our products and services could suffer and our revenue could decline. Our growth to date has increased the significant demands on our management, our operational and financial systems, IT infrastructure, security mechanisms and other resources. In order to successfully expand our business, we must effectively recruit, integrate and motivate new employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. We may not be able to hire new employees, including software engineers, quickly enough to meet our needs. If we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and results of operations could be harmed. We must also continue to improve our existing systems for operational and financial management, including our reporting systems, procedures and. 23. Table of Contents. controls. These improvements could require significant capital expenditures and place increasing demands on our management. We may not be successful in managing or expanding our operations or in maintaining adequate financial and operating systems and controls. If we do not successfully manage these processes, our business and results of operations could be harmed.. We may not grow at the rates we historically have achieved or at all, even if our key metrics may indicate growth, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We have experienced significant growth since 2011, our first year of active operations, with total revenue growing from $5.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, to $134.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Future revenue may not grow at these same rates or may decline. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to grow our revenue from existing clients, to complete sales to new clients and to expand our client base in the healthcare industry and with provider and payor organizations. We may not be successful in executing on our growth strategies and may not continue to grow our revenue at similar rates as we have in the past. Our ability to execute on our existing sales pipeline, create additional sales pipelines and expand our client base depends on, among other things, the attractiveness of our products and services relative to those offered by our competitors, our ability to demonstrate the value of our existing and future products and services and our ability to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified sales and marketing personnel. In addition, clients in some market segments in which we have a more limited presence may be slower to adopt our products and services than we currently anticipate.. To date, we have derived substantially all of our product revenue from sales of prescription medications, and revenue from sales of prescription medications is dependent upon factors outside of our control.. To date, substantially all of our product revenue has been derived from sales of prescription medications and related services, and we expect to continue to derive the substantial majority of our product revenue from sales of prescription medications and related services for the foreseeable future. Revenue from prescription medication fulfillment is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, such as growth or contraction in patient populations at our clients and the number and mix of medications each patient is prescribed. Any change in these factors could harm our financial results.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from PACE organizations, and any changes in laws or regulations, or any other factors that cause a decline in the use of PACE organizations to provide healthcare could hurt our ability to generate revenue and grow our business.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from PACE organizations, which are our largest clients, accounting for 76.9% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. PACE organizations reflect a relatively new, value-based model for providing healthcare to the elderly and are funded by both Medicare and Medicaid. If the laws and regulations that currently promote PACE organizations were to change in a way that makes operating a PACE organization less attractive, if other Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement models are developed that are more attractive to the healthcare providers that operate PACE organizations or if the prevalence of PACE organizations were to decline for any other reason, our ability to generate revenue and grow our business may be compromised.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to the elimination of some of our clients and make others larger, which could decrease demand for our solutions or create pricing pressure.. Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create larger and more integrated healthcare delivery systems. If regulatory and economic conditions continue to facilitate additional consolidation in the healthcare industry, some of our current clients, and possibly our future clients, may be eliminated. Such market fluctuations may result in decreased need for some or all of our products and services as some of our clients disappear, and others acquire larger market power, which may be used to develop various solutions in-house, rather than purchasing them from us, or negotiate fee reductions for our products and services.. Failure by PACE organization clients to meet applicable penetration benchmarks could result in loss of their service area, which could lead to our loss of that business and a corresponding decline in our revenue.. PACE organizations in many states are subject to penetration benchmarks regarding the number of eligible lives in their service areas that have been captured by the program. If the number of members covered by any of our PACE. 24. Table of Contents. organization clients were to be reduced by a material amount, such decrease may lead to a loss of their service area, which could result in our loss of the client and a corresponding decline in our revenue.. The growth of our business relies, in part, on the growth of our clients, which is difficult to predict and is affected by factors outside of our control.. We enter into agreements with our clients under which a portion of our fees are dependent upon the number of members that are covered by our clients' programs each month. The number of members covered by a client's program is often affected by factors outside of our control, such as the client's pricing, overall quality of service and member retention initiatives. If the number of members covered by one or more of our client's programs were to be reduced, such decrease would lead to a decrease in our revenue. In addition, the growth forecasts of our clients are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the markets in which our clients compete meet the size estimates and growth forecasted, their program membership could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all.. A few clients account for a significant portion of our revenue and, as a result, the loss of one or more of these clients could hurt our revenue.. Our largest ten clients accounted for 63%, 51%, and 53% during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015 respectively. During 2017, we signed a master agreement with Trinity Health Corporation covering 11 PACE facilities, which represented 18% of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Prior to signing this master agreement, each of these PACE facilities had separate contracts with us and were considered separate, individual, clients. For the year ended December 31, 2016 no single client accounted for greater than 10% of revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2015, one client accounted for 10% of total revenue. On a combined basis, the 11 PACE facilities, now covered by the master agreement with Trinity Health Corporation, represented 17% and 15% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Our engagement with our ten largest clients is generally covered through contracts that are multi-year in their duration. One or more of these clients may decline to renew their existing contracts with us upon expiration and any such failure to renew could have a negative impact on our revenue and compromise our growth strategy. Further, if one or more of these clients significantly decreases its use of our solutions, we would lose revenue and our growth would be compromised.. Because we generally bill our clients and recognize revenue over the term of the contract, near-term declines in new or renewed agreements may not be reflected immediately in our operating results.. Most of our revenue in each quarter is derived from agreements entered into with our clients during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed agreements in any one quarter may not be fully reflected in our revenue for that quarter because, although we enter into multi-year arrangements with our clients and recognize revenue over the term of the contract, such revenue varies based on the volume and pricing of prescriptions filled and the number of members of the healthcare organization and is, thus, not recognized evenly. Such declines, however, would negatively affect our revenue in future periods. The effect of any significant downturns in sales of, and market demand for, our products and services, as well as any potential changes in our rate of renewals or renewal terms, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure rapidly, or at all, to take account of reduced revenue.. If we do not continue to attract new clients, we may not be able to grow our business.. In order to grow our business, we must continually attract new clients. Our ability to do so depends in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts. Potential clients may seek out other options. Therefore, we must demonstrate that our products and services provide a viable solution for potential clients. If we fail to provide high-quality solutions and convince individual clients of our value proposition, we may not be able to attract new clients. If the market for our products and services declines or grows more slowly than we expect, or if the number of individual clients that use our solutions declines or fails to increase as we expect, our financial results could be harmed.. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our reputation and brand recognition, our business will be harmed.. Maintaining and enhancing our reputation and brand recognition is critical to our relationships with existing clients and to our ability to attract new clients. The promotion of our brand may require us to make substantial. 25. Table of Contents. investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these marketing initiatives may become more difficult and expensive. Our marketing activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur. In addition, any factor that diminishes our reputation or that of our management, including failing to meet the expectations of our clients, could make it substantially more difficult for us to attract new clients. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our reputation and brand recognition, our business may not grow and we could lose our relationships with clients.. Initial positive outcomes and cost reductions for our clients have not been statistically analyzed, are not necessarily attributable to our services, and are not necessarily predictive of future outcomes or costs.. Although several of our clients have reported improved outcomes for their patients and cost reductions on a per member per month basis, these initial outcomes have not been statistically analyzed and are not necessarily predictive of future outcomes. Other factors, including changes in healthcare regulations or other business practices or our clients' implementation of other cost saving measures may have contributed to positive outcomes or reduced costs. Moreover, outcome and cost reduction data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that believed their technologies and services were effective initially were unable to maintain positive results over time. If we fail to produce positive outcomes and reduce costs for our clients, they may not continue to use our services and we may be unable to attract new clients, each of which could harm our business.. Our marketing efforts depend significantly on our ability to receive positive references from our existing clients.. Our marketing efforts depend significantly on our ability to call on our current clients to provide positive references to new, potential clients. Given our limited number of long-term clients, the loss or dissatisfaction of any client could substantially harm our brand and reputation, inhibit the market adoption of our products and services, impair our ability to attract new clients and maintain existing clients and, ultimately, harm our financial results.. Our sales and implementation cycle can be long and unpredictable and can require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate.. The sales cycle for our products and services from initial sales activity with a potential client to contract execution and implementation can be long and varies widely by client, typically ranging from three to 12 months. Some of our clients undertake pilot programs for our products and services which range from six to 18 months in length. These pilot programs may result in extended sales cycles and upfront sales costs as the potential client evaluates our products and services. Our sales efforts involve educating our clients about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our products and services. It is possible that in the future we may experience even longer sales cycles, more complex client requirements, higher upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales as we continue to expand into new territories and add additional products and services. If our sales cycle lengthens or our substantial upfront sales and implementation investments do not result in sufficient sales to justify our investments, our operating results may be harmed.. Any failure to offer high-quality client support services may adversely affect our relationships with our clients and harm our financial results.. Our clients depend on our technical support to resolve any issues relating to our offering and technology solutions and to provide initial and ongoing training and education, when necessary. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the quality of our offering, our business reputation and on strong recommendations from our existing clients. Any failure to maintain high-quality and highly-responsive technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality and highly-responsive support, could harm our reputation and compromise our ability to sell our solutions to existing and prospective clients.. We offer client support services with our offering and may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in client demand for support services, particularly as we increase the size of our client base. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors. It is difficult to predict client demand for our support services and if client demand increases significantly, we may be unable to provide satisfactory support services to our clients. Additionally, increased client. 26. Table of Contents. demand for these services, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and hurt our ability to achieve profitability.. Our proprietary products and services may not operate properly, which could damage our reputation, give rise to a variety of claims against us or divert our resources from other purposes, any of which could harm our business and operating results.. Technology-enabled product and service development is time-consuming, expensive and complex and may involve unforeseen difficulties. We may encounter technical obstacles, and we may discover additional problems that prevent our proprietary products and services from operating properly. If our products and services do not function reliably or fail to achieve client expectations in terms of performance, clients could assert liability claims against us and attempt to cancel their contracts with us. Moreover, material performance problems, defects or errors in our existing or new products and services may arise in the future and may result from, among other things, the lack of interoperability of our software with systems and data that we did not develop and the function of which are outside of our control or undetected in our testing. Defects or errors in our products or services might discourage existing or potential clients from purchasing services from us. Correction of defects or errors could prove to be time consuming, costly, impossible or impracticable. The existence of errors or defects in our products and services and the correction of such errors could divert our resources from other matters relating to our business, damage our reputation and increase our costs.. Adverse drug events resulting from optimizing a patient's medication regimen through recommendations made by our technology or our pharmacists could give rise to claims against us and could damage our reputation.. We provide medication risk management services which includes answering prescriber questions and making recommendations to prescribers at the point-of-prescribing, during pharmacist consultation and at periodic patient review. In the event that optimizing a patient's medication regimen through recommendations made by our technology or our pharmacists contribute to an ADE, clients and patients could assert liability claims against us, which may not be subject to a contractually agreed upon liability cap, and clients could attempt to cancel their contracts with us. Such instances may also generate significant negative publicity that could harm our reputation, increase our costs and materially affect our results of operations.. Future sales to clients outside the United States or clients with international operations might expose us to risks inherent in international markets, which could hurt our business.. An element of our growth strategy is to further expand internationally. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that are different from those in the United States. In January 2018, SRx signed its first international license agreement with a Canadian company. Because of our limited of experience with international operations, our current and any potential future international expansion efforts might not be successful in creating demand for our products and services outside of the United States or in effectively selling our products and services in the international markets we enter. In addition, we will face risks in doing business internationally that could hurt our business, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe need to localize and adapt our products and services for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifferent pricing environments, longer sales cycles and longer accounts receivable payment cycles and collections issues;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew and different sources of competition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the United States;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlaws and business practices favoring local competitors;. 27. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, anti-bribery, foreign investment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and regulations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse tax consequences; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif we denominate our international contracts in local currencies, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies might negatively affect our operating results when translated into U.S. dollars.. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our results of operations generally. Any further expansion in our international operations will require significant management attention and financial resources.  We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing and expanding our international operations will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. If we invest substantial time and resources to establish and expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and operating results will suffer.. We purchase a significant portion of our pharmaceutical products from one wholesaler.. Effective March 2016, we entered into a prime vendor agreement with AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation, or AmerisourceBergen, a drug wholesaler, to provide us with the pharmaceutical products we sell. The prime vendor agreement was subsequently amended and restated effective May 1, 2016. As part of this agreement, we are obligated to purchase at least 95% of the total dollar amount of prescription pharmaceutical products we sell from AmerisourceBergen. The contract also commits us to a monthly minimum purchase obligation of approximately $1.75 million. Our amended and restated contract with AmerisourceBergen has an initial term of three years expiring April 30, 2019, and can be terminated by, among other things, either party's material breach that continues for 30 days or a payment default that continues for five days after notice thereof. If we are no longer able to purchase our pharmaceutical products from AmerisourceBergen, there can be no assurance that our operations would not be disrupted or that we could obtain the necessary pharmaceutical products at similar cost or at all. In this event, failure to satisfy our clients' requirements would result in defaults under client contracts subjecting us to damages and the potential termination of those contracts.. Any restrictions on our ability to license or share data and integrate third-party technologies could harm our business.. We depend upon licenses from third parties for some of the technology and data used in our products and services, and for some of the technology platforms upon which these products and services are built and operate. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses to compete directly with us. We also license some of our technology and share data we collect with our clients, including under agreements with health systems and providers of electronic health records. We expect that we will need to obtain additional licenses from third parties in the future in connection with the development of our products and services. In addition, we obtain a portion of the data that we use from public records and from our clients for specific client engagements. Our licenses for information may not be sufficient to allow us to use the data that is incorporated into our products and services for all potential or contemplated applications and products.. In the future, data providers could withdraw their data from us or restrict our usage for any reason, including if there is a competitive reason to do so, if legislation is passed restricting the use of the data or if judicial interpretations are issued restricting use of the data that we currently use in our products and services. In addition, data providers could fail to adhere to our quality control standards in the future, causing us to incur additional expense to appropriately utilize the data. If a substantial number of data providers were to withdraw or restrict their data, or if they fail to adhere to our quality control standards, and if we are unable to identify and contract with suitable alternative data suppliers and integrate these data sources into our service offerings, our ability to provide products and services to our clients would be compromised and our future growth and success could be delayed or limited.. We also integrate into our proprietary applications and use third-party software to maintain and enhance, among other things, content generation and delivery, and to support our technology infrastructure. Some of this software is. 28. Table of Contents. proprietary and some is open source software. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. These technologies may not be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all and could be difficult to replace once integrated into our own proprietary applications. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain, maintain or comply with any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which could delay or limit our future growth.. Data loss or corruption due to failures or errors in our systems may expose us to liability, hurt our reputation and relationships with existing clients and force us to incur significant costs.. Hardware failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our clients regard as significant. Complex software such as ours may contain errors or failures that are not detected until after the software is introduced or updates and new versions are released. We continually introduce new software and updates and enhancements to our existing software. Despite testing by us, we may discover defects or errors in our software. Any defects or errors could expose us to risk of liability to clients and the government, and could cause delays in the introduction of new products and services, result in increased costs and diversion of development resources, require design modifications, decrease market acceptance or client satisfaction with our products and services or cause harm to our reputation. Data losses related to personal health records could result in additional risks. We are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations and contractual obligations governing the transmission, security and privacy of health and other sensitive or proprietary information, which may impose restrictions on the manner in which we access, store, transmit, use and disclose such information and subject us to penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws or contractual provisions.. Furthermore, our clients might use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, hurt our reputation and lead to significant client relations problems.. Our business is subject to online security risks, and if we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of confidential data, our reputation and business will be harmed.. Our products and services involve the collection, storage and analysis of confidential or proprietary information. If a cyber incident, such as a phishing attack, virus, malware installation, server malfunction, software or hardware failure, impairment of data integrity, loss of data or other computer assets, adware or other similar issue, impairs or shuts down one or more of our computing systems or our IT network, we may be subject to negative treatment and lawsuits by our clients. In addition, attention to remediating cyber incidents may distract our technical or management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Public announcements of such cyber incidents could occur and negative perception of such cyber incidents could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and we could lose sales and clients.. In certain cases, confidential or proprietary information is provided to third parties, such as the service providers that host our technology platform, and we may be unable to control the use of our information or the security protections used by third parties. Cyber incidents and malicious internet-based activity continue to increase generally, and providers of hosting and cloud-based services are often targeted. If the third parties with whom we work violate applicable laws, contracts or our security policies, these violations could also put our confidential or proprietary information at risk and otherwise hurt our business. In addition, if the security measures of our clients are compromised, even without any actual compromise of our own systems, we may face negative publicity or reputational harm if our clients or anyone else incorrectly attributes the blame for such security breaches to us or our systems.. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security incidents caused by known cyber vulnerabilities or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to information or to sabotage information technology systems change frequently and unknown cyber vulnerabilities caused by third-party software or services may exist within our system. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate such techniques or vulnerabilities or to implement. 29. Table of Contents. adequate preventative measures. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security could damage our reputation and our relationship with our clients, could reduce demand for our products and services and could subject us to significant liability or regulatory actions. In addition, in the event that new privacy or data security laws are implemented, we may not be able to timely comply with such requirements, or such requirements may not be compatible with our current processes. Changing our processes could be time consuming and expensive, and failure to timely implement required changes could subject us to liability for non-compliance.. We rely on internet infrastructure, bandwidth providers, other third parties and our own systems to provide services to our clients, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties or our own systems could expose us to litigation and hurt our reputation and relationships with clients.. Our ability to deliver our products and services, particularly our cloud-based solutions, is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the internet and other telecommunications services by third parties. This includes maintenance of a reliable network connection with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable internet access and services and reliable telephone and facsimile services. Our services are designed to operate without perceptible interruption in accordance with our service level commitments.. We have, however, experienced limited interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slow down the performance of our services, and we may experience similar or more significant interruptions in the future. We rely on internal systems as well as third-party suppliers, including bandwidth and telecommunications equipment providers, to provide our services. We do not currently maintain redundant systems or facilities for some of these services. Interruptions in these systems or services, whether due to system failures, cyber incidents, physical or electronic break-ins or other events, could affect the security or availability of our services and prevent or inhibit the ability of our clients and their patients to access our services. In the event of a catastrophic event with respect to one or more of these systems or facilities, we may experience an extended period of system unavailability, which could result in substantial costs to remedy those problems or harm our relationship with our clients and our business.. Additionally, any disruption in the network access, telecommunications or co-location services provided by third-party providers or any failure of or by third-party providers' systems or our own systems to handle current or higher volume of use could significantly harm our business. We exercise limited control over our third-party suppliers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with services they provide. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services or our own systems could hurt our relationships with clients and expose us to third-party liabilities. Although we maintain insurance for our business, the coverage under our policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. In addition, we might not continue to be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost.. The reliability and performance of our internet connection may be harmed by increased usage or by denial-of-service attacks or related cyber incidents. The services of other companies delivered through the internet have experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of the internet's infrastructure, and such outages and delays could affect our systems and services in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of internet usage as well as the availability of the internet to us for delivery of our internet-based services.. We rely on third-party vendors to host and maintain our technology platform.. We rely on third-party vendors to host and maintain our technology platform, including our EireneRx and MedWise Advisor software. Our ability to offer our products and services and operate our business is dependent on maintaining our relationships with third-party vendors, particularly Amazon Web Services, and entering into new relationships to meet the changing needs of our business. Any deterioration in our relationships with such vendors or our failure to enter into agreements with vendors in the future could harm our business and our ability to pursue our growth strategy. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that, despite precautions taken at our vendors' facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, cyber incident, decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. These service interruptions could cause our platform to be unavailable to our clients and impair our ability to deliver products and services and to manage our relationships with new and existing clients.. If our vendors are unable or unwilling to provide the services necessary to support our business, or if our agreements with such vendors are terminated, our operations could be significantly disrupted. Some of our vendor. 30. Table of Contents. agreements may be unilaterally terminated by the licensor for convenience, and if such agreements are terminated, we may not be able to enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We may also incur substantial costs, delays and disruptions to our business in transitioning such services to ourselves or other third-party vendors. In addition, third-party vendors may not be able to provide the services required in order to meet the changing needs of our business.. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could compromise our ability to pursue our growth strategy and grow our business.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees. We do not maintain \"key person\" insurance for our executive officers, other than for our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Calvin H. Knowlton, or any of our other key employees. From time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We are highly dependent on Dr. Calvin H. Knowlton, our Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Orsula Knowlton, our President. All of our employees' employment is at-will, including the employment of Drs. Calvin and Orsula Knowlton, which means that any of these employees could leave our employment at any time. The replacement of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees would likely involve significant time and costs and may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives.. In addition, competition for qualified management in our industry is intense. Many of the companies with which we compete for management personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result, we may experience difficulty hiring and retaining qualified personnel. The departure of key personnel could also hurt our business. In such event, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our business, and we might not be able to employ a suitable replacement for the departing individual, or a replacement might not be willing to work for us on terms that are favorable to us.. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the technology industry, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options or other equity instruments they are to receive in connection with their employment. Volatility in the price of our common stock might, therefore, compromise our ability to attract or retain highly skilled personnel. Furthermore, the requirement to expense stock options and other equity instruments might discourage us from granting the size or type of stock option or equity awards that job candidates require to join our company. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed.. We may make future acquisitions and investments that may be difficult to integrate, divert management resources, result in unanticipated costs or dilute our stockholders.. Part of our business strategy is to acquire or invest in companies, products or technologies that complement our current products and services, enhance our market coverage or technical capabilities or offer growth opportunities. For example, on September 6, 2017, we completed our acquisition of SRx. Future acquisitions and investments could pose numerous risks to our operations, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty integrating the purchased operations, products or technologies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubstantial unanticipated integration costs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tassimilation of the acquired businesses, which may divert significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and could disrupt our ongoing business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty retaining or developing the acquired business' clients;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse effects on our existing business relationships;. 31. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to realize the potential cost savings or other financial or strategic benefits of the acquisitions, including failure to consummate any proposed or contemplated transaction; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tliabilities from the acquired businesses for infringement of intellectual property rights, loss of intellectual property or goodwill through inadequate data security measures, unknown cyber vulnerabilities or network intrusions, or other claims and failure to obtain indemnification for such liabilities or claims.. In connection with these acquisitions or investments, we could incur debt, amortization expenses related to intangible assets or large write-offs, assume liabilities or issue stock that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership. We may be unable to complete acquisitions or integrate the operations, products or personnel gained through any such acquisition successfully or without adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under our existing line of credit.. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness was $1.7 million and primarily related to capital lease liabilities. The Amendment and Restated 2015 Line of Credit provides for borrowings, on a revolving basis, in an aggregate amount up to $40.0 million to be used for general corporate purposes. The Amended and Restated 2015 Line of Credit is secured by all of our personal property, whether presently existing or created or acquired in the future, as well as our intellectual property. If we are unable to repay any secured borrowings when due, whether at maturity or if declared due and payable following a default, the lenders would have the right to proceed against the collateral pledged to the indebtedness and may sell the assets pledged as collateral in order to repay those borrowings. As of December 31, 2017, there was no amount outstanding under the Amended and Restated 2015 Line of Credit.. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all.. Our operations have required a significant investment of cash since inception and we intend to continue to make significant investments to support our business growth, respond to business challenges or opportunities, develop new applications and services, enhance our existing platform and services, hire additional sales and marketing personnel, enhance our operating infrastructure and potentially acquire complementary businesses and technologies. As of December 31, 2017, we had $10.4 million of cash.. Our future capital requirements may be significantly different from our current estimates and will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, renewal activity, the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced products and services and the continuing market acceptance of our products and services. Accordingly, we might need to engage in equity or debt financings or collaborative arrangements to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which might make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We might have to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or offerings that we otherwise would not consider. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be limited.. We may become subject to litigation, which could be costly and result in significant liability.. We may become subject to litigation in the future. Any future claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which we are not insured against. We generally intend to defend ourselves vigorously; however, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of any claims that may arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments and settlements exceed insured levels, could diminish our financial resources. Litigation or the resolution of litigation may also affect the availability or cost of some of our. 32. Table of Contents. insurance coverage, which could increase our costs, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured and compromise our ability to attract directors and officers.. Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease, and we may be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws.. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to audit by tax authorities where we do business. Although we believe that our tax estimates and tax positions are reasonable, they could be materially affected by many factors including the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation, the introduction of new tax accounting standards, legislation, regulations, and related interpretations, our global mix of earnings and the realizability of deferred tax assets. An increase or decrease in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, at any time, U.S. federal tax laws or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be changed. In December 2017, the legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which made widespread changes to the Internal Revenue Code, was signed into law; while we believe that this law generally will have a favorable effect on corporations and their stockholders, uncertainty remains regarding the full effect that this law will have on us and our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders. We also cannot predict whether, when or to what extent other new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be issued. As a result, changes in U.S. federal tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and adversely impact our stockholders.. Occasionally, changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted that may result in an increase in our tax liability. Shortfalls in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income.. We face additional risks as a result of the acquisition of SRx and may be unable to integrate our businesses successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the acquisition or do so within the anticipated timeframe.. On September 6, 2017, we completed our acquisition of SRx. The acquisition involved a combination of two companies that previously operated as independent companies, and, as a result of the acquisition, the combined company faces various additional risks, including, among others, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to successfully evaluate and utilize SRx's products, services, technology or personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisruption to SRx's business and operations and relationships with service providers, customers, employees and other partners;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegative effects on our products, product pipeline and services from the changes and potential disruption that may follow the acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of our management's attention from other strategic activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour inability to successfully combine the businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of significant resources from the ongoing development of our existing products, services and operations; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgreater than anticipated costs related to the integration of SRx's business and operations into ours.. Our ability to execute all such plans will depend on various factors, many of which remain outside our control. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business and financial results.. 33. Table of Contents. The process of integrating SRx's operations into our operations could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and require significant resources.. The following factors, among others, could reduce our revenues and earnings, increase our operating costs, and result in a loss of projected synergies:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif we are unable to successfully integrate the duties, responsibilities, and other factors of interest to the management and employees of the acquired business, we could lose employees to our competitors, which could significantly affect our ability to operate the business and complete the integration;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif we are unable to implement and retain uniform standards, controls, policies, procedures and information systems; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tif the integration process causes any delays with the delivery of our services, or the quality of those services, we could lose customers, which would reduce our revenues and earnings.. The process of integrating SRx and its associated services and technologies involves numerous risks that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or stock price.. The following factors, among others, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or stock price:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpenses related to the acquisition process and impairment charges to goodwill and other intangible assets related to the acquisition;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe dilutive effect on earnings per share as a result of issuances of stock and incurring operating losses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstock volatility due to investors' uncertainty regarding the value of SRx;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of capital from other uses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition in a timely manner, or at all; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse outcome of litigation matters or other contingent liabilities assumed in or arising out of the acquisition.. Notwithstanding the due diligence investigation we performed in connection with the acquisition, SRx may have liabilities, losses, or other exposures for which we do not have adequate insurance coverage, indemnification, or other protection.. While we performed significant due diligence on SRx prior to consummating the acquisition, we are dependent on the accuracy and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by SRx and its representatives when conducting due diligence and evaluating the results of such due diligence.  We did not control and may be unaware of activities of SRx before the acquisition, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, information security vulnerabilities, violations of laws, policies, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities.. Our post-closing recourse is limited under the Merger Agreement.. SRx's obligation to indemnify us is limited to, among others, breaches of specified representations and warranties and covenants included in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated September 6, 2017, by and among the Company, certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries, SRx, Michael Deitch, Fletcher McCusker and Mr. Deitch in his capacity as the Stockholders' Representative, or the Merger Agreement. Except in the event SRx breaches a Fundamental Representation (as defined in the Merger Agreement) or with respect to fraud, intentional misrepresentation or willful misconduct, we cannot make a claim for indemnification pursuant to the Merger Agreement with respect to representations and warranties unless and until the indemnifiable losses exceed $337,500 and we cannot make a claim against SRx for a breach of a non-Fundamental Representation after the date that is 18 months after the. 34. Table of Contents. date of closing of the acquisition.  In connection with the acquisition, we obtained a representation and warranty insurance policy but we cannot make a claim under this policy for a breach of a non-Fundamental Representation after the date that is three years after the date of closing of the acquisition or a breach of a Fundamental Representation or certain tax obligations after the date that is six years after the date of the closing of the acquisition.  If any issues arise post-closing, we may not be entitled to sufficient, or any, indemnification or recourse from SRx or our representation and warranty insurance policy, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. The success of SRx depends on a license with the University of Arizona. If the University of Arizona chooses to terminate the license, our business and operations could be harmed.. SRx licenses certain software and related user documentation related to SRx's Medication Management Center from the University of Arizona, or the Arizona License. The Arizona License is an exclusive, sublicensable license within the United States. The majority of SRx's business is dependent on the software licensed under the Arizona License. The University of Arizona may terminate the Arizona License under certain circumstances, including if SRx breaches the Arizona License and does not cure such breach within 60 days, ceases the commercial use of the licensed software, or liquidates its business. The termination of the Arizona License could significantly disrupt SRx's business operations and may adversely affect our operating results. In the event of a termination, SRx may be unable to fulfill its responsibilities to customers or meet the expectations of customers, with the potential for liability claims and a loss of business reputation, and a loss of business reputation, loss of ability to attract or maintain customers, and reduction of our revenue or operating margin.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology and products or if the scope of our intellectual property protection is not sufficiently broad, others may be able to develop and commercialize technology and products substantially similar to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be compromised.. Our business depends on proprietary technology and content, including software, databases, confidential information and know-how, the protection of which is crucial to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade-secret and copyright laws, confidentiality procedures, cyber security practices and contractual provisions to protect the intellectual property rights of our proprietary technology and content. We may, over time, increase our investment in protecting our intellectual property through additional trademark, patent and other intellectual property filings, which could be expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to obtain protection for our technology and even if we are successful in attaining effective patent, trademark, trade-secret and copyright protection, it is expensive to maintain these rights and the costs of defending our rights could be substantial. Furthermore, recent changes to U.S. intellectual property laws may jeopardize the enforceability and validity of our intellectual property portfolio and harm our ability to obtain patent protection of some of our unique business methods.. In addition, these measures may not be sufficient to offer us meaningful protection or provide us with any competitive advantages. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our competitive position and our business could be harmed, as third parties may be able to commercialize and use technologies and software products that are substantially the same as ours without incurring the development and licensing costs that we have incurred. Any of our owned or licensed intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, our trade secrets and other confidential information could be disclosed in an unauthorized manner to third parties, or our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise to provide us with competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of some of our offerings or other competitive harm.. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. From time to time, we seek to analyze our competitors' products and services, and may in the future seek to enforce our rights against potential infringement. However, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to enforce our rights as against infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Any inability to meaningfully protect our intellectual property rights could harm our ability to compete and reduce demand for our products and services. Moreover, our failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could hurt our market position and business opportunities. Also, some of our products and services rely on technologies, data and software developed by or licensed from third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter. 35. Table of Contents. into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. Any loss of the right to use any third-party technologies, data or software could result in delays in implementing or provisioning our products and services until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business.. We may also be required to protect our proprietary technology and content in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful, or which we may not pursue in every location. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available to us in every country, and the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States. Additional uncertainty may result from changes to intellectual property legislation enacted in the United States and elsewhere, and from interpretations of intellectual property laws by applicable courts and agencies. Accordingly, we may be unable to obtain, maintain and enforce the intellectual property rights necessary to provide us with a competitive advantage. Our failure to obtain, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights could therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our competitive position may be harmed.. The registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names that we own may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic, lapsed or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights in these trademarks and trade names, which we need in order to build name recognition with potential clients. In addition, third parties may in the future file for registration of trademarks similar or identical to our trademarks. If they succeed in registering or developing common law rights in such trademarks, and if we are not successful in challenging such third-party rights, we may not be able to use these trademarks to develop brand recognition of our technologies, products or services. If we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, we may not be able to compete effectively.. If we cannot protect our domain names, our ability to successfully promote our brand will be impaired.. We currently own the web domain names www.tabularasahealthcare.com, www.trhc.com, www.carekinesis.com, www.careventions.com, www.medliance.com, www.capstoneperformancesystems.com, www.eirenerx.com, www.medwiseadvisor.com,  www.niarx.com, and www.sinfoniarx.com which are critical to the operation of our business. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names is generally regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in all countries in which we conduct business. Furthermore, it is unclear whether laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights will be extended to protect domain names. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy of establishing a strong brand if we cannot prevent others from using similar domain names or trademarks. This failure could impair our ability to increase our market share and revenue.. We could incur substantial costs as a result of any claim of infringement of another party's intellectual property rights.. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to develop and commercialize our products and services without infringing or being claimed to have infringed the intellectual property or proprietary rights of third parties. Intellectual property disputes can be costly to defend and may cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. As the market for technology-enabled healthcare solutions in the United States expands and intellectual property protections asserted by others increase, the risk increases that there may be intellectual property asserted by others and patents issued to third parties that relate to our products and technology of which we are not aware or that we must challenge to continue our operations as currently contemplated. Whether merited or not, we may face allegations that we, our clients, our licensees or parties indemnified by us have infringed or otherwise violated the patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, we have received letters from third parties in the past claiming that our software, technologies and methodologies are covered by their patents, and future claims may require us to expend time and money to address and resolve these claims. Such claims may be. 36. Table of Contents. made by competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from other technology-reliant companies.. We may also face allegations that our employees or consultants have misappropriated the intellectual property or proprietary rights of their former employers or other third parties, as the case may be. It may be necessary for us to initiate litigation to defend ourselves in order to determine the scope, enforceability and validity of third-party intellectual property or proprietary rights, or to establish our respective rights. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have merit, such claims can be time-consuming, divert management's attention and financial resources and can be costly to evaluate and defend. Results of any such litigation are difficult to predict and may require us to stop commercializing or using our products or technology, obtain licenses, modify our products and technology while we develop non-infringing substitutes, incur substantial damages or settlement costs, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or providing the affected products and services. If we require a third-party license, it may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, and we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products and services. We may also have to redesign our products or services so they do not infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time, during which our technology and products may not be available for commercialization or use. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not obtain a third-party license to the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or obtain similar technology from another source, our ability to operate our business could be compromised.. Our use of open source software could compromise our ability to offer our services and subject us to possible litigation.. We use open source software in connection with our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the use of open source software and compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute software containing open source software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to the licensee's software that incorporates, links or uses such open source software, and make available to third parties for no cost, any derivative works of the open source code created by the licensee, which could include the licensee's own valuable proprietary code. While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur, or could be claimed to have occurred, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous. Any actual or claimed requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could harm our business and could help our competitors develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe our issued patents or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to monitor for such infringement and file infringement claims, both of which can be expensive and time consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their patents. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, or may construe the patent's claims narrowly or refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in a proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated.. We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees, our consultants or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other technology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees and our. 37. Table of Contents. consultants do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that our employees, our consultants, or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. Costly litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.. In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.. If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings against us relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development activities or any future sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to conduct such litigation or proceedings adequately. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could compromise our ability to compete in the marketplace.. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, the value of our technology, products and services could be hurt.. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information adequately. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect this proprietary information and technology, our employees, consultants and other parties may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information or technology to competitors. In addition, our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information may be accessed or disclosed during a cyber incident, which could have a significant negative impact on us. Further, such cyber incidents, if disclosed publicly, could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our proprietary information or technology is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information. We rely, in part, on non-disclosure, confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other intellectual property and proprietary information. These agreements may not be self-executing, or they may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. Moreover, third parties may independently develop similar or equivalent proprietary information or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information.. Risks Related to Industry Regulation and Other Legal Compliance Matters. The healthcare regulatory and political framework is uncertain and evolving.. Healthcare laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and may change significantly in the future. For example, in March 2010, the ACA was adopted, which is a healthcare reform measure that seeks to contain healthcare costs while improving quality and access to coverage. The ACA includes a variety of healthcare reform provisions and requirements that have already become effective or will become effective at varying times through 2018 and substantially changes the. 38. Table of Contents. way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, which may significantly affect our industry and our business. Many of the provisions of the ACA will phase in over the course of the next several years, and we may be unable to predict accurately what effect the ACA or other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, including amendments to the ACA, will have on our business.. On January 20, 2017, President Donald J. Trump issued an executive order stating that it is the policy of the new administration to seek the prompt repeal of the ACA. Despite multiple efforts, Congress was unable to pass legislation significantly repealing or replacing the ACA in 2017, but many uncertainties remain regarding its future. The Trump Administration took additional action in October 2017 that may weaken the ACA's public health insurance marketplace, and the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, enacted December 22, 2017, eliminates the ACA's individual mandate penalty beginning January 1, 2019. Both events suggest additional action to further weaken, repeal or replace the ACA may occur. The modification or repeal of certain provisions of the ACA could impact some or many of our business arrangements directly or indirectly.  Given that legislative and regulatory change is still being formulated, we cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of any future legislation or regulation.. In addition, we are subject to various other healthcare laws and regulations, including, among others, the Stark Law relating to self-referrals, anti-kickback laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, antitrust laws and the data privacy and security laws and regulations described below. If we were to become subject to litigation or liabilities or found to be out of compliance with these or other laws, our business could be hurt. We may become subject to litigation, which could be costly and result in significant liability.. We are subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations and contractual obligations governing the transmission, security and privacy of health and other sensitive or proprietary information, which may impose restrictions on the manner in which we access, store, transmit, use and disclose such information and subject us to penalties if we are unable to fully comply with such laws or contractual provisions.. As described below, we are required to comply with numerous federal and state laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, storage and transmission of individually identifiable health information that we may obtain or have access to in connection with the provision of our services. These laws and regulations, including their interpretation by governmental agencies, are subject to frequent change. These laws and regulations include the following..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, required expanded protection of the privacy and security of protected health information, the execution of certain contracts to safeguard protected health information and the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information, for health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and certain healthcare providers, which we refer to as Covered Entities, and their business associates. Among the standards that HHS has adopted pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, security, electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement. Actual failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and civil and criminal penalties, as well as contractual damages, which could harm our business, finances and reputation..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or the HITECH Act, enacted as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, also known as the \"Stimulus Bill\", effective February 22, 2010, modified HIPAA by setting forth health information security breach notification requirements and increasing penalties for violations of HIPAA, among other things. The HITECH Act requires individual notification for all breaches as defined by HIPAA, media notification of breaches affecting over 500 individuals located in the same region and either prompt or annual reporting of breaches to HHS, depending on the number of affected individuals. The HITECH Act also replaced the prior monetary penalty system of $100 per violation and an annual maximum of $25,000 per violation with a four-tier system of sanctions for breaches. Penalties now range from a minimum of $100 per violation and an annual maximum of $25,000 per violation for the first tier to a minimum of $50,000 per violation and an annual maximum of $1.5 million per violation for the fourth tier. Failure to comply with HIPAA as modified by the HITECH Act could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions and reputational damage that could harm our business.. 39. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tNumerous other federal and state laws may apply that restrict the use and disclosure and mandate the protection of the privacy and security of individually identifiable information, as well as employee personal information, and that require notifications and mitigation in the event of a breach. These include state medical information privacy laws, state social security number protection laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, among others. These various laws in many cases are not preempted by HIPAA and may be subject to varying interpretations by the courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us and our clients and potentially exposing us to additional expense, adverse publicity and liability..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFederal and state consumer protection laws are increasingly being applied by the United States Federal Trade Commission and states' attorneys general to regulate the collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal or individually identifiable information, through websites or otherwise, and to regulate the presentation of website content.. There is ongoing concern from privacy advocates, regulators and others regarding data protection and privacy issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection and privacy laws has been increasing. In addition, the scope of protection afforded to data subjects by many of these data protection and privacy laws has been increasing. Also, there are ongoing public policy discussions regarding whether the standards for deidentified, anonymous or pseudonomized health information are sufficient, and the risk of re-identification sufficiently small, to adequately protect patient privacy. These discussions may lead to further restrictions on the use of such information. These initiatives or future initiatives could compromise our ability to access and use data or to develop or market current or future services.. The security measures that we and our third-party vendors and subcontractors have in place to ensure compliance with privacy and data protection laws and contractual commitments may not protect our facilities and systems from security breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, cyber incidents, misplaced or lost data, programming and human errors or other similar events. The occurrence of a cyber incident that affects either individually identifiable health information or other confidential or proprietary information with which we have been entrusted may result in liability and hurt our reputation.. Additionally, as a business associate under HIPAA, we may also be liable for privacy and security breaches of protected health information and certain similar failures of our subcontractors. Even though we contractually require our subcontractors to safeguard protected health information as required by law, we still have limited control over their actions and practices. An actual or perceived breach of privacy or security of individually identifiable health information held by us or by our subcontractor may result in an enforcement action, including criminal and civil liability, against us, as well as negative publicity, reputational harm and contractual ramifications with our clients.. We are not able to predict the full extent of the impact such incidents may have on our business if such incidents occur. Any failure we may have in complying with HIPAA may result in criminal or civil liability, and due to the heightened enforcement climate and recent changes to the law, the potential for enforcement action against business associates under HIPAA is now greater than in prior years. Enforcement actions against us could be costly and could interrupt regular operations, which may harm our business. While we have not received any notices of violation of the applicable privacy and data protection laws and believe we adequately protect our information, including in compliance with such laws, there can be no assurance that we will not receive such notices in the future. Further, costly breaches can occur regardless of our compliance infrastructure.. We operate in a highly regulated industry and must comply with a significant number of complex and evolving requirements. Achieving and sustaining compliance with state and federal statutes and regulation related to the healthcare industry may prove costly. Changes in these laws could restrict our ability to conduct our business. Further, if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur significant penalties and our reputation could suffer.. In addition to HIPAA, additional federal and state statutes, regulations, guidance and contractual provisions regarding healthcare that may apply to our business activities, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe federal Anti-Kickback Statute, or AKS, prohibits individuals and entities from knowingly and willfully paying, offering, receiving or soliciting anything of value in order to induce the referral of patients or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, arranging for, or recommending services or goods covered in. 40. Table of Contents. whole or in part by Medicare, Medicaid, or other government healthcare programs. The AKS is an intent-based statute and the failure of an arrangement to satisfy all elements of a safe harbor will not necessarily make it illegal, but it may subject that arrangement to scrutiny by enforcement authorities. Any violation of the AKS can lead to significant penalties, including criminal penalties, civil fines and exclusion from participation in a federal healthcare program, among other penalties..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVarious state anti-kickback laws that sometimes track federal AKS prohibitions, although some apply to all-payors as opposed to only government healthcare programs..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe federal physician self-referral law, often referred to as the Stark Law, prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to an entity for the provision of certain  designated health services, or DHS, among them outpatient prescription medications, if the physician or a member of such physician's immediate family has a financial relationship (including an ownership or investment interest or a compensation arrangement) with the entity, unless the financial relationship meets an exception to the self-referral prohibition. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity from billing Medicare or Medicaid for such DHS if the financial relationship fails to meet the requirements of an exception. The Stark Law is considered a \"strict liability\" statute in that a referral from a physician with a financial relationship that does not meet the requirements of an exception is strictly prohibited by the Stark Law. A violation of the Stark Law is punishable by civil sanctions, including overpayment liability, significant fines and exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid programs..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tState data privacy and security laws that track federal requirements or impose more stringent or different requirements than HIPAA regarding storage, transmission, use and disclosure of protected health information, general individually identifiable information or other sensitive information..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tConsumer protection laws require us to publish statements to users of our services that describe how we handle personal information. If such information that we publish is considered untrue, we may be subject to claims of deceptive practices, which could lead to significant liabilities and consequences, including, costs of defending against litigation, settling claims and loss of willingness of current and potential future clients to work with us..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFederal and state false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, impose civil and criminal liability on individuals or entities that knowingly submit false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government or knowingly make, cause to be made, a false statement in order to have a false claim paid, or knowingly and improperly avoid or decrease an obligation due the federal government, such as the knowing retention of an identified overpayment. The civil False Claims Act provides for treble damages and mandatory minimum penalties per false claim or statement. In this context, it is particularly notable that a significant portion of our revenue is derived from services provided to PACE organizations. PACE organizations are funded by both Medicare and Medicaid, and the Medicare risk-adjustment methodology applies to the Medicare component of PACE organization reimbursement. PACE submissions may also be comparable to state Medicaid risk-adjustment submissions, and vary by state. Because risk adjustment submissions to Medicare and state Medicaid programs have a direct impact on the amounts that Medicare and Medicaid Programs pay to PACE organizations, these activities may be the subject of scrutiny and litigation under the federal civil False Claims Act..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe HHS Office of Inspector General and many state Medicaid agencies maintain lists of individuals and organizations that have been excluded from participation in a federal healthcare program. A significant part of our revenue is derived from our services as federal healthcare program providers, specialty pharmacies, or contractors to federal healthcare program providers or plans and as such, we need to comply with restrictions on employing or contracting with personnel and vendors who have been excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs. Adhering to the best practice of conducting monthly screenings against the federal and state exclusion lists for employees and contractors may be costly and resource-consuming, but failure to do so may give rise to significant administrative liability and sanctions..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAs contractors to PACE organizations and Medicare Advantage organizations, or MAOs, we are subject to contractual provisions, which impose on us various obligations related to healthcare compliance and healthcare fraud, waste and abuse reduction and elimination efforts. These obligations stem from the. 41. Table of Contents. provisions contained in prime contracts between PACE organizations and MAOs, and the federal government. Examples of such flow down provisions include subcontractor's compliance with all applicable state and federal laws, subcontractor's obligation to screen state and federal exclusion lists and its obligation to conduct periodic audits, among many others. Breaches of these requirements would not necessarily be a regulatory risk per se, but they could create contract compliance issues, which may yield contractual damages, be costly to resolve and may hurt our reputation and restrict our ability to service such organizations in the future..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVarious state licensure, registration and certification laws are applicable to pharmacies, pharmacists, pharmacy technicians and other pharmacy personnel. If we are unable to maintain our licenses or if states place burdensome restrictions or limitations on non-resident pharmacies, this could limit or affect our ability to operate in some states. Additionally, if we or any of our personnel violate conditions of their pharmacy or pharmacist licensure, we could face penalties and lose valuable personnel..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA number of federal and state laws and registration requirements are applicable to the purchase, handling, and dispensing controlled substances. If we are unable to maintain our registrations this could limit or affect our ability to purchase, handle, or dispense controlled substances and other violations of these laws could subject us to criminal or other sanctions..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFederal and state laws and policies require pharmacies to maintain, enroll and participate in federal healthcare programs or to report specified changes in their operations to the agencies that administer these programs. If we do not comply with these laws, we may not be able to participate in some federal healthcare programs, which could compromise our ability to sell our solutions..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA number of FDA regulations are applicable to our business. Some technologies and software applications used in healthcare analytics, genomic testing and analysis are considered medical devices and are subject to regulation by the FDA. If the FDA determines that any of our current or future services, technologies, or software applications are regulated by the FDA as medical devices, we would become subject to various laws, regulations and policies enforced by the FDA or other governmental authorities, including both premarket and post-market requirements, and we would need to bring the affected services, technologies, or software into compliance with such requirements. The FDA could also require that we cease marketing and/or recall the affected services, technologies, and software unless and until we bring them into compliance with FDA's requirements. The FDA and state regulators, such as state boards of pharmacy, also regulate drug packaging and repackaging. Our drug packaging activities must comply with the relevant FDA and state statutes, regulations and policies. Noncompliance with applicable FDA or state requirements, including those related to pharmaceutical and medical device promotional practices and the pre-market and post-market approval requirements for medical devices can result in an enforcement action that could substantially harm our business. Changes in existing regulatory requirements, our failure to comply with current or future requirements or adoption of new requirements could negatively affect our business..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tClinical laboratories that perform human genomic testing are subject to oversight by CMS and state regulators.  If the laboratories that we partner with for genomic testing are not in compliance with the applicable CMS or state laws or regulations, they could be subject to enforcement action, which could negatively affect our business.. Further modifications to the Medicare Part D program and changes in pricing benchmarks may reduce revenue and impose additional costs to the industry.. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 included a major expansion of the Medicare program with the addition of a prescription drug benefit under the new Medicare Part D program. The continued impact of these regulations on our business and operations depends upon a variety of factors, including our ongoing relationships with the Part D Plans and the patient mix of our clients. Future modifications to the Medicare Part D program may reduce revenue and impose additional costs to the industry. In addition, contracts and fee schedules in the prescription drug industry, including our contracts with certain of our clients use certain published benchmarks, including average wholesale price, or AWP, to establish pricing for prescription drugs. Most of our contracts utilize the AWP standard. However, there can be no assurance that our clients will continue to utilize AWP, as previously. 42. Table of Contents. calculated, or that other pricing benchmarks will not be adopted to establish prices for prescription drugs within the industry.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders, if they choose to act together, will continue to have the ability to influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval.. Our executive officers and directors, combined with our stockholders who own more than five percent of our outstanding capital stock, in the aggregate, beneficially own shares representing approximately 26% of our capital stock. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they may be able to influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership control may:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelay, defer or prevent a change in control;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tentrench our management and the board of directors; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us that other stockholders may desire.. As a result, these executive officers, directors and current five percent or greater stockholders could pursue transactions that may not be in our best interests and which could harm our business.. Some provisions of Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws were adopted in connection with our IPO and, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdivide our board of directors into three staggered classes of directors that are each elected to three-year terms;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of our board of directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law, be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit stockholder action by written consent;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares of capital stock, making a takeover more difficult and expensive;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovide that special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by or at the direction of the board of directors, the chairman of our board or the chief executive officer; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire advance notice to be given by stockholders for any stockholder proposals or director nominees.. Because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, which may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Under the DGCL, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction.. 43. Table of Contents. These and other provisions could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a transaction involving a change in control of our company or could make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or to cause us to take other corporate actions that you desire.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates courts in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (c) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, (d) any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or (e) any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. We refer to each of these proceedings as a covered proceeding. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that if any action the subject matter of which is a covered proceeding is filed in a court other than the specified Delaware courts without the approval of our board of directors, which we refer to as a foreign action, the claiming party will be deemed to have consented to (1) the personal jurisdiction of the specified Delaware courts in connection with any action brought in any such courts to enforce the exclusive forum provision described above and (2) having service of process made upon such claiming party in any such enforcement action by service upon such claiming party's counsel in the foreign action as agent for such claiming party. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions. These provisions may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions.. The market price of our common stock may decline, and you could lose all or a significant part of your investment.. The market price of, and trading volume for, our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe success of competitive products, services or technologies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdevelopments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe recruitment or departure of key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe level of expenses related to developing any of our products or services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license additional products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the structure of healthcare payment systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions in the healthcare technology sector;. 44. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tglobal and general economic, industry and market conditions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. As a result of these and other factors, our stockholders may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their shares of our common stock, including decreases unrelated to our financial performance or prospects.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If securities or industry analysts cease coverage of us, the trading price for our common stock could be negatively affected. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price will likely decline. If one or more of these analysts fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause our common stock price and trading volume to decline.. The price of our common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for purchasers of our common stock.. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for smaller healthcare technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, you may not be able to sell your common stock at or above the purchase price you paid for the stock, if at all. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future.. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. At February 28, 2018, we had outstanding a total of 20,013,491 shares of common stock. Holders of an aggregate of 2,096,794 shares of our common stock have rights, subject to specified conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or, along with holders of additional shares of our common stock, to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. In December 2017, certain stockholders sold 2,100,000 shares of our common stock in a registered offering and these stockholders may pursue additional sales in the future. We also intend to register all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. Once we register these shares, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to volume limitations applicable to affiliates.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company for up to five years following the date of our IPO. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and intend to rely on exemptions from some disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnot being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnot being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. 45. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\treduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We have taken advantage of reduced reporting burdens in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of these accounting standards until they would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. If we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock may be negatively affected.. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to audit the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed or operating.. If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our consolidated financial statements may be materially misstated. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected and we could become subject to investigations by the NASDAQ Global Market, on which our securities are listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to obtain additional financial and management resources.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\".. We are required to comply with various regulatory and reporting requirements, including those required by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market. Complying with these reporting and other regulatory requirements is time-consuming and has resulted in increased costs to us. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we may need to commit significant resources, hire additional staff and provide additional management oversight. We are implementing additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. Sustaining our growth as a public company will also require us to commit additional management, operational and financial resources to identify new professionals to join our company and to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support expansion. These activities may also divert management's attention from other business concerns.. As an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, we take advantage of temporary exemptions from various reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements.. 46. Table of Contents. When these exemptions cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs.. Our business and stock price may suffer as a result of our limited public company operating experience.. We were a privately held company since we were founded in 2009 until the completion of our IPO in October 2016. Our limited public company operating experience may make it difficult to forecast and evaluate our future prospects. If we are unable to execute our business strategy, either as a result of our inability to effectively manage our business in a public company environment or for any other reason, our stock price may be harmed.. Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be your sole source of gain.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change federal net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, and other pre-change federal tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes as a result of shifts in our stock ownership that could limit the use of our NOLs. State NOL carryforwards may be similarly or more stringently limited. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change NOLs to offset United States federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
