[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report before deciding to invest in our common stock.. 24. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. The global economy and the financial markets may negatively affect our business and clients, as well as the supply of and demand for works of art.. Our business is affected by global, national and local economic conditions since the services we provide are discretionary and we depend, to a significant extent, upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending in Hong Kong and Mainland China. These factors include economic conditions and perceptions of such conditions by Traders, employment rates, the level of Traders’ disposable income, business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit and levels of taxation in regional and local markets. There can be no assurance that our services will not be adversely affected by changes in general economic conditions in Hong Kong and globally.. The art market is influenced over time by the overall strength and stability of the global economy and the financial markets, although this correlation may not be immediately evident. In addition, political conditions and world events may affect our business through their effect on the economies, as well as on the willingness of potential buyers and sellers to invest and sell art in the wake of economic uncertainty.. A decline in trading volumes will decrease our trading revenues.. Trading volumes are directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of artworks and the overall level of investor confidence. In recent years, trading volumes across our markets have fluctuated depending on market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Because a significant percentage of our revenues are tied directly to the trading volumes on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results. Declines in trading volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures and adversely affect our business and financial condition.. System limitations or failures could harm our business.. Our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the technology, computer and communications systems supporting them. If our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new services. These consequences could result financial losses and decreased customer service and satisfaction. If trading volumes increase unexpectedly or other unanticipated events occur, we may need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner.. A variety of uncontrollable events may reduce our ability to provide our trading services, impair our ability to provide our services or increase the cost of providing our services.. Our headquarters are in Hong Kong SAR and our servers are in Hong Kong SAR, Macau and mainland China, which are historically susceptible to adverse weather conditions such as typhoons, excessive heat or rain, earthquakes and floods. Those natural disasters may result in significant and extensive damage to our network equipment. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu, as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, over the past several years and, in 2009, the outbreak of influenza A (H1N1). In 2010, an earthquake registering 7.1 on the Richter scale struck Qinghai Province. In April 2013, another major earthquake registering 7.0 on the Richter scale struck Ya’an region of Sichuan Province. In 2013, certain areas of China suffered from severe floods. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that any other future natural disasters and health hazards may have on our business. Any future natural disasters and health hazards may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may generally disrupt our operations. Furthermore, natural disasters and health hazards may severely restrict the level of economic activities in affected areas, which may in turn materially adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, any natural disasters or health hazards in China may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These events and others, such as fluctuations in energy costs and computer virus attacks, intrusions or other widespread computing or telecommunications failures, may also damage our ability to provide our services or to obtain insurance coverage with respect to these events.. 25. We have insufficient insurance coverage. We presently do not have any insurance to cover certain events such as physical damage to our office premises and resulting business interruption, certain injuries occurring on our property and liability for breach of legal responsibilities as we believe, based on our organization, business model and the remote possibility of the incurrence of substantial damages from such events, that the costs of such insurance greatly exceeds the benefits of having it. However, in the possible event of a significant loss from such an event, this may severely impact our performance or continue as a going concern.. The success of our business depends on our ability to market and advertise the services we provide effectively.. Our ability to establish effective marketing campaigns is the key to our success. Our advertisements promote our corporate image and our services. If we are unable to increase awareness of our brand, the benefits of using our trading platform to invest in artwork and that such investment is secure, we may not be able to attract new Traders. Our marketing activities may not be successful in promoting our services or in retaining and increasing our Trader base. We cannot assure you that our marketing programs will be adequate to support our future growth, which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our success is dependent on the receptiveness of Traders of artwork to our platform.. We believe the demand for artwork listings will be generated by our Traders. We hope to educate our Traders on the merits of using our platform to invest in artwork. Not only in the subject artwork secure and insured, it requires less capital for our Traders to invest as they need only invest in artwork units and not purchase the entire piece of artwork. We hope that they will see their investment as less risky as they are presented with the opportunity to diversify their investments through various pieces of artwork. Our success would accordingly depend on the receptiveness of Traders to the merits of investments on our platform.. If we are unable to renew the lease of our property, our operations may be adversely affected.. We do not directly own the land over the property we lease. We may lose our leases or may not be able to renew it when it is due on terms that are reasonable or favorable to us. This may have adverse impact on our operations, including disrupting our operations or increasing our cost of operations.. The failure to manage growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our employee efficiency, product quality, working capital levels, and results of operations.. Any significant growth in the market for our services or our entry into new markets may require an expansion of our employee base for managerial, operational, financial, and other purposes. As of the date of this Annual Report, we had 117 full time employees. During any growth, we may face problems related to our operational and financial systems and controls, including quality control and delivery and service capacities. We would also need to continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. Continued future growth will impose significant added responsibilities upon the members of management to identify, recruit, maintain, integrate, and motivate new employees.. Aside from increased difficulties in the management of human resources, we may also encounter working capital issues, as we will need increased liquidity to finance the purchase of supplies, development of new products and services, and the hiring of additional employees. For effective growth management, we will be required to continue improving our operations, management, and financial systems and controls. Our failure to manage growth effectively may lead to operational and financial inefficiencies that will have a negative effect on our profitability. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to timely and effectively meet that demand and maintain the quality standards required by our existing and potential customers.. 26. If we need additional capital to fund our growing operations, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital and may be forced to limit the scope of our operations.. If adequate additional financing is not available on reasonable terms, we may not be able to undertake our expansion plan and we would have to modify our business plans accordingly. There is no assurance that additional financing will be available to us.. In connection with our growth strategies, we may experience increased capital needs and accordingly, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our future operations without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (i) our profitability; (ii) the release of competitive products by our competitors; (iii) the level of our investment in research and development; and (iv) the amount of our capital expenditures, including acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs.. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to: (i) limit our investments in research and development; (ii) limit our marketing efforts; and (iii) decrease or eliminate capital expenditures. Such reductions could materially adversely affect our business and our ability to compete.. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing stockholders. In addition, new equity or convertible debt securities issued by us to obtain financing could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our Common Stock. We cannot give you any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us.. We are dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success is, to a certain extent, attributable to the management and operational and technical expertise of certain key personnel. In addition, we will require an increasing number of experienced and competent executives and other members of senior management to implement our growth plans. If we lose the services of any member of our senior management, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and prospects.. We are dependent on a trained workforce and any inability to retain or effectively recruit such employees, particularly distribution personnel and regional retail managers for our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of qualified and trained staff to operate our business. Our ability to implement effectively our business strategy and expand our operations will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of highly skilled and experienced distribution personnel, regional retail managers and other technical and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for qualified personnel in our business and we may not be successful in recruiting or retaining sufficient qualified personnel consistent with our current and future operational needs.. Our financial results may fluctuate because of many factors and, as a result, investors should not rely on our historical financial data as indicative of future results.. Fluctuations in operating results or the failure of operating results to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors may negatively impact the market price of our securities. Operating results may fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect revenues or expenses in any particular quarter. Fluctuations in operating results could cause the value of our securities to decline. Investors should not rely on comparisons of results of operations as an indication of future performance. As result of the factors listed below, it is possible that in future periods results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our securities to decline. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include:. ·vulnerability of our business to a general economic downturn in Hong Kong and mainland China;. ·fluctuation and unpredictability of the prices of the products we sell;. 27. ·     changes in the laws and regulations of Hong Kong and mainland China that affect our operations; and. ·     our ability to obtain necessary government certifications and/or licenses to conduct our business.. If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, investor confidence in us and the market price of our equities could decline significantly if we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we enhanced our internal controls over financial reporting by making the following changes: (i) we established a desired level of corporate governance with regard to identifying and measuring the risk of material misstatement, (ii) we set up a key monitoring mechanism including independent directors and audit committee to oversee and monitor our risk management, business strategies and financial reporting procedure, (iii) we have Chief Financial Officer with SEC and US GAAP expertise and (iv) we have strengthened our financial team by employing more qualified accountant(s) to enhance the quality of our financial reporting function. We conducted out an evaluation using the framework set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission with the participation of our management, including Di Xiao, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chun Hin Leslie Chow, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer of the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined under Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of December 31, 2017. Based upon that evaluation, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. However, we do not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. Accordingly, if in spite of such changes and improvements, our internal controls are still ineffective in our ability to accurately and timely report our financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP, this could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and make related regulatory filings on a timely basis. This, in turn, could result in a material adverse impact on us and undermine investor confidence in us and the market price of our equities could decline significantly.. 28. Security breaches and attacks against our systems and network, and any potentially resulting breach or failure to otherwise protect confidential and proprietary information, could damage our reputation and negatively impact our business, as well as materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Although we have employed significant resources to develop our security measures against breaches, our cybersecurity measures may not detect or prevent all attempts to compromise our systems, including distributed denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or other attacks and similar disruptions that may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted by our systems or that we otherwise maintain. Breaches of our cybersecurity measures could result in unauthorized access to our systems, misappropriation of information or data, deletion or modification of client information, or a denial-of-service or other interruption to our business operations. As techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers, we may be unable to anticipate, or implement adequate measures to protect against, these attacks.. If we are unable to avert these attacks and security breaches, we could be subject to significant legal and financial liability, our reputation would be harmed and we could sustain substantial revenue loss from lost sales and customer dissatisfaction. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Cyber-attacks may target us, our Traders or other participants, the communication infrastructure, or the e-platform on which we depend. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur significantly higher costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and network protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. Cybersecurity breaches would not only harm our reputation and business, but also could materially decrease our revenue and net income.. Future inflation may inhibit our ability to conduct business profitably.. In recent years, the economy in China including Hong Kong has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese and Hong Kong governments to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China and Hong Kong, and thereby harm the market for our services.. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our business, including reducing our revenues and profits in U.S. dollar terms if RMB were to decline in value.. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and our operations in China and Hong Kong use their respective local currencies as their functional currencies. We are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies. For example, the value of the RMB depends to a large extent on Chinese government policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments, as well as supply and demand in the local market. Starting July 2005, the Chinese government changed its policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB has fluctuated within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies.  It is possible that the Chinese government will adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuations of the RMB against the U.S. dollar.. The income statements of our China and Hong Kong operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions results in reduced revenues, operating expenses and net income for our non-U.S. operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of RMB and Hong Kong dollar -denominated transactions results in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income for our non-U.S. operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our non-U.S. subsidiaries into U.S. dollars in consolidation. If there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of the non-U.S. subsidiaries’ financial statements into U.S. dollars will lead to a translation gain or loss which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transaction may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exchange rate risks.. 29. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies to fund our business activities outside China, or to repay non-RMB denominated obligations.. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange for most of the capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. These approvals, however, do not guarantee the availability of foreign currency. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain all required conversion approvals for our operations or that Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of RMB in the future. Because a significant amount of our future revenues may be in the form of RMB, our inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges could limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, or to repay non-RMB-denominated obligations, including our debt obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Company’s requirements could exceed the amount of time or level of experience that our officer and directors may have.. Our success largely depends on the continuing services of our chief executive officer and director, Di Xiao, our chief financial officer, Chun Hin Leslie Chow and our other directors, Joseph Levinson, Zishen Li, John Levy and William Kwok Keung Tsui. Our continued success, also, depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We believe that Messrs. Xiao, Chow, Levinson, Li, Levy and Tsui possess valuable business development and marketing knowledge, experience and leadership abilities that would be difficult in the short term to replicate. The loss of their services could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition as our potential future revenues.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and hire officers or directors with similar experience to operate our business, in the event that any one of them is otherwise unsuccessful in doing so.. Because our funds are held in banks which may not be covered by sufficient insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue our business.. Banks and other financial institutions in Hong Kong and China may not be covered by sufficient insurance for funds held on deposit. The Hong Kong Deposit Protection Board manages and supervises the operation of the Deposit Protection Scheme, which protects deposit amounts up to only $64,517 (HK$500,000). On May 1, 2015, the State Council of People’s Republic of China, released the Regulations on Deposit Insurance, with a scheme that would insure up to $78,671 (RMB500,000) in deposits made by businesses and individuals per bank. The scheme is backed by a fund run by the People’s Bank of China.. As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business.. Our annual effective income tax rate can change significantly as a result of a combination of changes in our U.S. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws or changes made by regulatory authorities.. Our consolidated effective income tax rate is equal to our total income tax expense (benefit) as a percentage of total book income (loss) before tax. However, income tax expense and benefits are recognized on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis instead of worldwide or consolidated level basis. Losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. Changes in statutory income tax rates and laws, as well as initiation of tax audits by local and foreign authorities, could impact the amount of income tax liability and income taxes we are required to pay. In addition, any fluctuation in the earnings (or losses) of the jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes could have a significant effect on our consolidated effective income tax rate. Furthermore, our effective tax rate could increase if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain jurisdictions, or if we are otherwise required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets.. 30. We are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. As a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations.. We are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions particularly in the United States, People’s Republic of China and Hong Kong SAR. In addition, tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the United States, may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. In the event any applicable tax authorities effectively sustained their positions which are different from our tax treatment of any of our transactions, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, consolidated results of our operations as well as consolidated financial condition.. Our financial position and results of operations may be significantly impacted by any unfavorable tax consequences due to the changes to the fiscal policies or tax regulations.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") which includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system and U.S. international tax regime. The effect of the international provisions of the Tax Act resulted in a one-time deemed repatriation tax on unremitted foreign earnings and profits (a \"transition tax\"), a minimum tax on foreign earnings of U.S.-based multinationals with foreign subsidiaries, a base erosion tax on transactions between U.S. and non-U.S. affiliated corporations, in structures involving U.S. and non-US headquartered groups, a partial participation exemption for dividends from foreign subsidiaries and several other changes across the U.S. international tax provisions addressing the source of income, FTCs, deductibility of payments and other issues, including ownership and transfers of intangible property (Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income or GILTI).. The Company had performed an assessment of the one-time deemed repatriation tax on its undistributed and unrepatriated foreign earnings for the current year. See our discussion and analysis of income tax in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. The remaining international tax provisions will be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The Company is gathering additional information and will continue to evaluate the impact of those international tax regimes on its financial condition and results of operations.. The growth of aging receivables and a deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations.. We provide for bad debts principally based upon the aging of accounts receivable, in addition to collectability of specific customer accounts, our history of bad debts, and the general condition of the industry. Our doubtful account allowance as of December 31, 2017 was approximately $2 million, compared to $0 as of December 31, 2016. During the year of 2017 we experienced increases in doubtful account reserves due to an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, the growth of the outstanding balance of receivables, the general decline in the domestic and global economy, and other factors. Due to the difficulty in assessing future trends, we could be required to further increase our provisions for doubtful accounts. As our accounts receivable age and become uncollectible our cash flow and results of operations are negatively impacted.. While the management exercised its caution in the entry into agreements with authorized agents, who in turn select traders and the Company reviewed the traders, certain traders could pay arrears the monthly fee and owe debts to the Company for a long period. In the event the Company has to write off the amount of uncollectible receivables of the authorized agent subscription fee and commission fee from the selected traders, and if such write-off is material, it may have adverse impact on our financial results.. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN HONG KONG. The Hong Kong legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us.. As one of the conditions for the handover of the sovereignty of Hong Kong to China, China had to accept some conditions such as Hong Kong's Basic Law before its return. The Basic Law ensured Hong Kong will retain its own currency (the Hong Kong Dollar), legal system, parliamentary system and people's rights and freedom for fifty years from 1997. This agreement had given Hong Kong the freedom to function in a high degree of autonomy. The Special Administrative Region (“SAR”) of Hong Kong is responsible for its own domestic affairs including, but not limited to, the judiciary and courts of last resort, immigration and customs, public finance, currencies and extradition. Hong Kong continues using the English common law system.. Some international observers and human rights organizations have expressed doubts about the future of the relative political freedoms enjoyed in Hong Kong, and about the PRC's pledge to allow a high degree of autonomy in Hong Kong. They considered, for example, that the proposals in Article 23 of the Basic Law in 2003 (which was withdrawn due to mass opposition) might have undermined autonomy. On June 10, 2014, Beijing released a new report asserting its authority over the territory. This ignited criticism from many people in Hong Kong, who said that the Communist leadership was reneging on its pledges to abide by the \"one country, two systems\" policy that allows for a democratic, autonomous Hong Kong under Beijing's rule.. 31. If the PRC were to, in fact, renege on its agreement to allow Hong Kong to function autonomously, this could potentially impact Hong Kong’s common law legal system and may in turn bring about uncertainty in, for example, the enforcement of our contractual rights. This could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business and operation. Additionally, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in Hong Kong may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Hong Kong legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us, including our ability to enforce our agreements with our customers.. It will be difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in Hong Kong.. Substantially all of our assets will be located in Hong Kong and our officers and our present directors reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws.. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in Hong Kong, which could impair our planning processes and make it difficult to provide accurate reports of our operating results.. Although we will be required to implement internal controls, we may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in Hong Kong in these areas. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing the required controls, making it difficult for management to forecast its needs and to present the results of our operations accurately at all times. If we are unable to establish the required controls, market makers may be reluctant to make a market in our stock and investors may be reluctant to purchase our stock, which would make it difficult for you to sell any shares of Common Stock that you may own or acquire.. Because our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business.. Banks and other financial institutions in Hong Kong do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. The Hong Kong Deposit Protection Board manages and supervises the operation of the Deposit Protection Scheme, which protects deposit amounts up to only $64,517 (HK$500,000) As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business.. 32. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA. Changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to sustain our growth and expansion strategies.. Some of our operations are conducted in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and part of our revenue is sourced from the PRC. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are affected to a significant extent by economic, political and legal developments in the PRC.. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the extent of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. Although the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China's economic growth by allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy, regulating financial services and institutions and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies.. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. Our financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. In addition, the PRC government has implemented in the past certain measures, including interest rate increases, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws, rules and regulations.. As some of our operations are conducted in the PRC, and are governed by PRC laws, rules and regulations. Our PRC Subsidiaries, Shanghai Takung and Tianjin Takung are subject to laws, rules and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value.. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws, rules and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws, rules and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China or may be subject to significant degree of interpretation by PRC regulatory agencies and courts. In particular, because these laws, rules and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited number of published decisions and the non-precedential nature of such decisions, and because the laws, rules and regulations often give the relevant regulator significant discretion in how to enforce them, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations involve uncertainties and can be inconsistent and unpredictable. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules, some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all, and which may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until after the occurrence of the violation.. Any administrative and court proceedings in China may be protracted, resulting in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 33. PRC regulations regarding acquisitions impose significant regulatory approval and review requirements, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions.. Under the PRC Anti-Monopoly Law, companies undertaking acquisitions relating to businesses in China must notify MOFCOM, in advance of any transaction where the parties' revenues in the China market exceed certain thresholds and the buyer would obtain control of, or decisive influence over, the target. In addition, on August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the MOFCOM, the State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration of Taxation, the SAIC, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rules, which came into effect on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. Under the M&A Rules, the approval of MOFCOM must be obtained in circumstances where overseas companies established or controlled by PRC enterprises or residents acquire domestic companies affiliated with such PRC enterprises or residents. Applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations also require certain merger and acquisition transactions to be subject to security review.. If we grow to a certain threshold level, any proposed acquisition of control of, or decisive influence over, any company with revenues within China of more than RMB400 million in the year prior to any proposed acquisition would be subject to MOFCOM merger control review. As a result of, many of the transactions we may undertake could be subject to MOFCOM merger review. Complying with the requirements of the relevant regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. In addition, MOFCOM has not accepted antitrust filings for any transaction involving parties that adopt a variable interest entity structure. If MOFCOM's practice remains unchanged, our ability to carry out our investment and acquisition strategy may be materially and adversely affected and there may be significant uncertainty as to whether transactions that we may undertake would subject us to fines or other administrative penalties and negative publicity and whether we will be able to complete large acquisitions in the future in a timely manner or at all.. We rely to a significant extent on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our principal operating subsidiary in China to fund offshore cash and financing requirements.. We are a holding company and rely to a significant extent on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our operating subsidiary in the PRC, for our offshore cash and financing requirements, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders, fund inter-company loans, service any debt we may incur outside of China and pay our expenses. When our operating Subsidiary incur additional debt, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions or remittances to us. Furthermore, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our PRC Subsidiary permit payments of dividends only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards and regulations.. Under PRC laws, rules and regulations, our Subsidiary incorporated in China is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund certain statutory reserves. These reserves, together with the registered equity, are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result of these laws, rules and regulations, our Subsidiary incorporated in China are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their respective net assets to their stockholders as dividends. In addition, registered share capital and capital reserve accounts are also restricted from withdrawal in the PRC, up to the amount of net assets held in each operating subsidiary.. Limitations on the ability to pay dividends to us could limit our ability to access cash generated by the operations of those entities, including making investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends to our stockholders or otherwise fund and conduct our business.. 34. The services conducted by our wholly-foreign owned enterprises might be regarded as a form of online advertising or as part of services requiring an Internet content provider license or other licenses and subjecting us to other laws, rules and regulations as well as increased taxes.. Our online platform to list artwork for sale at fixed prices and other related services are currently not classified as a form of online advertising in China or as part of services requiring an ICP license or other licenses. We conduct our fixed price sale of artwork and other related business through our wholly-foreign owned enterprises in the PRC, which are not qualified to operate an online advertising business and do not hold an ICP license. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not classify our business and other related services as a form of online advertising or as part of services requiring an ICP license or other licenses in the future. If new regulations characterize our business and other related services as a form of online advertising or as part of ICP services requiring an ICP license or other licenses, we may have to conduct our business through other entities, which are qualified to operate online advertising business and hold ICP or other licenses.. If we conducted our business through other entities, we may face increased scrutiny from the tax authorities and may incur additional taxes on any services fees paid by such entities to our wholly-foreign owned enterprise. In addition, advertising services are subject to a cultural construction fee under PRC law, which is a 3% surcharge in addition to the applicable value-added tax. If our business and other related services were to be considered a form of online advertising, our revenue from those services would be subject to the 3% surcharge. If that were to occur, our margins would decline and our net income could be reduced. In addition, the substantial revenue streams attributable to our business would then be collected from such other entities and subject to the risks associated with these entities. If the change in classification of our business and other related services were to be retroactively applied, we might be subject to sanctions, including payment of delinquent taxes and late payment interest.. Moreover, PRC advertising laws, rules and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute is fair and accurate and is in full compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws, rules or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator's license for operating an advertising business.. In addition, for advertising content related to specific types of products and services, advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors must confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals, including the advertiser's operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with the local authorities. If we become subject to PRC advertising laws, we would need to take steps to monitor, and to ensure that our third-party marketing affiliates monitor, the content of any advertisements displayed on our platforms. This could require considerable resources and time, and could significantly affect the operation of our business, while also subjecting us to increased liability under the relevant laws, rules and regulations. The costs associated with complying with such laws, rules and regulations, including any penalties or fines for our failure to so comply if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any change in the classification of our business and other related services by the PRC government may also significantly disrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our business and prospects.. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, and we may therefore be subject to PRC income tax on our global income.. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both of which came into effect on January 1, 2008, enterprises established under the laws of jurisdictions outside of China with \"de facto management bodies\" located in China may be considered PRC tax resident enterprises for tax purposes and may be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their global income. \"De facto management body\" refers to a managing body that exercises substantive and overall management and control over the production and business, personnel, accounting books and assets of an enterprise. The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore-Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the \"de facto management body\" of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by foreign enterprises or individuals, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation's general position on how the \"de facto management body\" test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises. Currently, we generate only a small portion of our revenues offshore. However, if this proportion were to increase and if we were to be considered a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our global income. In such case, our profitability and cash flow may be materially reduced as a result of our global income being taxed under the Enterprise Income Tax Law. We believe that none of our entities outside of China is a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. However, the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to determination by the PRC tax authorities and uncertainties remain with respect to the interpretation of the term \"de facto management body.\". 35. Dividends payable to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our Common Stock by our foreign investors may become subject to PRC taxation.. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation regulations issued by the State Council, a 10% PRC withholding tax is applicable to dividends payable by a resident enterprise to investors that are non-resident enterprises, which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC or which have such establishment or place of business but the dividends are not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of Common Stock by such investors is also subject to PRC tax at a current rate of 5%, subject to any reduction or exemption set forth in relevant tax treaties, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, dividends paid on our Common Stock, and any gain realized by the investors from the transfer of our Common Stock, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and would as a result be subject to PRC taxation. Furthermore, if we are deemed a PRC resident enterprise, dividends payable to individual investors who are non-PRC residents and any gain realized on the transfer of our common stock by such investors may be subject to PRC tax at a current rate of 20%, subject to any reduction or exemption set forth in applicable tax treaties. It is unclear whether if we or any of our subsidiaries established outside China are considered a PRC resident enterprise, holders of our common stock would be able to claim the benefit of income tax treaties or agreements entered into between China and other countries or areas and to claim foreign tax credit if applicable. If dividends payable to our non-PRC investors, or gains from the transfer of our common stock by such investors are subject to PRC tax, the value of your investment in our common stock may decline significantly.. We and our stockholders face uncertainties with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises or other assets attributed to a PRC establishment of a non-PRC company, or other assets attributable to a PRC establishment of a non-PRC company.. On February 3, 2015, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Bulletin on Issues of Enterprise Income Tax and Indirect Transfers of Assets by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Bulletin 7, which replaced or supplemented certain previous rules under the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, on December 10, 2009. Pursuant to this Bulletin, an \"indirect transfer\" of assets, including equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, by non-PRC resident enterprises may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding payment of PRC enterprise income tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax.. According to Bulletin 7, \"PRC taxable assets\" include assets attributed to an establishment in China, immoveable properties located in China, and equity investments in PRC resident enterprises, in respect of which gains from their transfer by a direct holder, being a non-PRC resident enterprise, would be subject to PRC enterprise income taxes. When determining whether there is a \"reasonable commercial purpose\" of the transaction arrangement, factors to be taken into consideration include: whether the main value of the equity interest of the relevant offshore enterprise derives from PRC taxable assets; whether the assets of the relevant offshore enterprise mainly consists of direct or indirect investment in China or if its income mainly derives from China; whether the offshore enterprise and its subsidiaries directly or indirectly holding PRC taxable assets have real commercial nature which is evidenced by their actual function and risk exposure; the duration of existence of the business model and organizational structure; the replicability of the transaction by direct transfer of PRC taxable assets; and the tax situation of such indirect transfer and applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements. In respect of an indirect offshore transfer of assets of a PRC establishment, the resulting gain is to be included with the enterprise income tax filing of the PRC establishment or place of business being transferred, and would consequently be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Where the underlying transfer relates to the immoveable properties located in China or to equity investments in a PRC resident enterprise, which is not related to a PRC establishment or place of business of a non-resident enterprise, a PRC enterprise income tax at 10% would apply, subject to available preferential tax treatment under applicable tax treaties or similar arrangements, and the party who is obligated to make the transfer payments has the withholding obligation. Where the pay or fails to withhold any or sufficient tax, the transferor shall declare and pay such tax to the tax authority by itself within the statutory time limit. Late payment of applicable tax will subject the transferor to default interest. Bulletin 7 does not apply to transactions of sale of shares by investors through a public stock exchange where such shares were acquired from a transaction through a public stock exchange.. 36. There are uncertainties as to the application of Bulletin 7. As Bulletin 7 was promulgated recently, it is not clear how it will be implemented. Bulletin 7 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to some of our offshore restructuring transactions or sale of the shares of our offshore subsidiaries or investments where PRC taxable assets are involved. The transferors and transferees may be subject to the tax filing and withholding or tax payment obligation, while our PRC Subsidiary may be requested to assist in the filing. Furthermore, we, our non-resident enterprises and PRC Subsidiary may be required to spend valuable resources to comply with Bulletin 7 or to establish that we and our non-resident enterprises should not be taxed under Bulletin 7, for our previous and future restructuring or disposal of shares of our offshore subsidiaries, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Bulletin 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the taxable assets transferred and the cost of investment. If the PRC tax authorities make adjustments to the taxable income of the transactions under Bulletin 7, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions or disposals will increase, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenue effectively.. A significant portion of our revenue is denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible under the \"current account,\" which includes dividends, trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the \"capital account,\" which includes foreign direct investment and loans, including loans we may secure from our onshore subsidiaries or variable interest entities. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries, which are wholly-foreign owned enterprises, may purchase foreign currency for settlement of \"current account transactions,\" including payment of dividends to us, without the approval of SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future for current account transactions. Since a significant amount of our future revenue is denominated in Renminbi, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside of the PRC or pay dividends in foreign currencies to our stockholders, including holders of our shares of common stock. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account remain subject to limitations and require approvals from, or registration with, SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. This could affect our ability to obtain foreign currency through debt or equity financing for our subsidiaries and the variable interest entities.. Our significant amount of deposits in certain banks in China may be at risk if these banks go bankrupt or otherwise do not have the liquidity to pay us during our deposit period.. On May 1, 2015, China’s new Deposit Insurance Regulation came into effect, pursuant to which banking financial institutions, such as commercial banks, established in China are required to purchase deposit insurance for deposits in RMB and in foreign currency. Under this regulation, depositors will be fully indemnified for their deposits and interests in an aggregate amount up to a limit of RMB500,000. Deposits or interests over such limit will only be covered by the bank’s liquidation assets. Therefore, although this requirement to purchase deposit insurance may help, to a certain extent, prevent Chinese banks from going bankrupt, it would not be effective in providing effective protection for our accounts, as our aggregate deposits are much higher than the compensation limit.. RISKS RELATING TO INVESTMENT IN OUR SECURITIES. An active public market for our Common Stock may not develop or be sustained, which would adversely affect the ability of our investors to sell their securities in the public market.. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our Common Stock will develop or be sustained.. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of outstanding stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our Common Stock.. Holders of a significant number of our shares and/or their designees may be eligible to sell our shares of Common Stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a non-affiliate stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six-month holding period, and provided that there is current public information available, may sell all of its securities. Rule 144 also permits the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate that has satisfied a one-year holding period. Any substantial sale of Common Stock pursuant to any resale prospectus or Rule 144 may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock by creating an excessive supply.. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected.. We are a public company and our internal controls are essential to the integrity of our business and financial results. Our public reporting obligations place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. Although we have implemented measures to enhance our internal controls, and plan to take steps to further improve our internal controls, if we encounter difficulties in improving our internal controls and management information systems, we may incur additional costs and management time in meeting our improvement goals. We cannot assure you that the measures taken to improve our internal controls will be effective. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation may be materially and adversely affected.. 37. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure will result in additional expenses.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including SOX and related SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the public markets and public reporting. Our management team will need to invest significant management time and financial resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards for public companies, which will lead to increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities.. We do not foresee paying cash dividends in the near future.. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our shares of Common Stock in the foreseeable future and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. As a result, investors should not rely on an investment in our securities if they require the investment to produce dividend income.. 38"
